ParlaMint-DK_20160525130007	The meeting is open. The Minister for Business and Growth (Troels Lund Poulsen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on business promotion and support 2016. R 18). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525130030	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 26 May 2016. It is first the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten, for a reason. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525130103	Thank you. The initiative for today's query was taken by Enhedslisten, Alternativet og SF. The background is the alarming development in Turkey, where last Friday a majority in Parliament bowed to the pressure of Turkish President Erdogan and adopted constitutional changes that remove the immunity of 138 elected Members of Parliament who have been pending cases against them. The waiver of immunity opens the way for the prosecution of the political opposition in Turkey. Not least, the pro-Kurdish HDP party, a party that represents not only large parts of the country's Kurdish but also Christian and Alvite population, will suffer badly. Thus 50 of HDP's 59 parliamentarians will be on trial. The popular co-chairman of HDP, Selahhattin Demirtaş, who has previously visited both the Folketing and the Foreign Minister, has only 75 charges against him. The accusations against MEPs are virtually all absurd and unacceptable. These are accusations which are justified by statements which should in no way be prohibited. We are talking about calls for the resumption of the peace process so that a peaceful solution can be found to the Kurdish question, or a criticism of the current government and President. Prosecutor, who is a bell-clear attack on freedom of speech. Turkey is currently in a dangerous state of development where democracy is short-circuited and the possibilities for a political solution to the Kurdish question are being undermined. I hope that today we in the Danish Parliament can have a good debate, that we in the Danish Parliament can meet today on a clear criticism of the prosecution of elected parliamentarians and a call for the resumption of the peace process.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525130309	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525130317	Thank you for the opportunity to discuss once again the latest developments in Turkey, as we have done so many times in recent weeks, and as we will certainly do again next week when the motion for a resolution B 185 is to be discussed. The question today about the ongoing prosecution of elected parliamentarians in Turkey and the consequences for a possible peace process has been raised. I can also hear from the explanatory statement here, particularly with regard to the question of the immunity of Members of Parliament, which has been dealt with recently by the Turkish Parliament. Turkey's ruling party, the AKP, made a proposal in April for a temporary amendment to the Constitution in order to lift the parliamentary immunity of MEPs who currently have accusations of criminal acts hanging over their heads. After sometimes heated discussions in, among others: The Parliamentary Constitutional Committee finally adopted the proposal by Parliament on Friday, 20 May, with a large majority of 376 out of a total of 550 votes. Since the majority was greater than two thirds, there is no need for a referendum. The government party's declared motivation for having tabled the proposal is Turkey's massive fight against terrorism, where, according to the proposers, MEPs' alleged support for terrorism cannot be ignored. The adoption of a temporary clause is introduced into Article 83 of the Turkish Constitution, which, in its present form, states that Members suspected of criminal activity, before or after an election to parliament, are protected by immunity. The new clause waives the immunity of Members who have charges pending against them in the Ministry of Justice, the Prime Minister's Office or the Parliament. After what I'm told, it's at the moment. 677 charges against 138 Members of Parliament. In this situation, the majority of Parliament has not found that it would be possible to take an individual position on a possible waiver of immunity on a case-by-case basis in a reasonable time. On the EU side, the High Representative of the European Union, Mogherini, and the Commissioner for Enlargement, especially Hahn, have already said in a joint statement last Friday that the resolution is a cause for serious concern. You have stressed that the Rules of Parliamentary immunity should contain specific and objective criteria for any decision to waive immunity, that immunity should apply to all without discrimination, and that any decisions to waive immunity should be based on the merits of each case, based on clear criteria and free from political considerations. In relation to a possible peace process to which the questioner refers, one might have a concern that the waiver of immunity would be adversely affected. In particular, it will be Members of the HDP who are the party mostly representing the Kurdish minority who are affected. More than half of the allegations pending are therefore directed against MEPs from HDP. It should be noted, however, that there are accusations against parliamentarians from all parties, including the government party AKP, and it is therefore claimed by the supporters of Parliament's proposal last Friday that it is not discriminatory or directed against individual groups or parties. However, this does not alter the fact that there is a risk of serious battles and, moreover, of processes which do not provide the Members concerned with the proper protection they should have. In particular, the cases against HDP MEPs relate to statements or political activity alleged to support or call for terrorism. Of course, as many speakers have said, including the Council of Europe and the European Parliament, anti-terrorism legislation must not be misused to silence everyone with whom one disagrees. That is why statements made in this case by the European Union and, for example, by the Member States. the US Foreign Office also for the protection of freedom of expression in general and for elected representatives in particular. There is now concern in Turkey among independent observers, NGOs and, of course, the Members concerned about whether the current steps are part of a general repression of the parliamentary democratic opposition in terms of freedom of expression and other freedoms for Kurds as for other groups. This brings back some memories of the mid-1990s when four Kurdish-Turkish MPs were sentenced to prison sentences and a dramatic bloody period followed in the now over 30-year-old conflict. We're not that far. After Parliament's adoption, the decision must be verified by the Turkish President in order to enter into force. This could happen quickly. There may then be the possibility of the decision being appealed to the Constitutional Court, but the circumstances of the case are not quite clear. We shall then see how the situation is taking place in practice; what cases may be taken, what judgments it leads to; how appeals are being made, etc. All in all, the government shares the concerns expressed by the European Union and others. I myself raised the issue and the question of freedom of expression more generally with Turkey's Foreign Minister last Thursday when I met him at the NATO Foreign Minister's meeting, and just last Monday I had the opportunity to talk to Turkish editors and journalists about how they looked at things. The two, of course, did not see the same thing, I can say hello. However, the clear message from the meeting with Turkish journalists was that it was essential for the European Union and the Western countries to maintain an active dialogue with Turkey because, in their view, it was the only way of effectively exerting an influence on pressure on Turkey to stick to the rules that apply. The government will therefore also monitor developments closely through the EU. At EU level, it was decided last week, with explicit Danish support, to put the issue of parliamentary immunity on the agenda at the next meeting of the European Commission and the Turkish Government on 31 May in the so-called Association Committee. We will follow up on it and see how the future goes about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525130952	Thank you. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525131008	The situation in Turkey is very serious. Turkish President Erdogan has managed to short-circuit democracy and pave the way for the prosecution of the political opposition. With totally absurd accusations, there are gross violations of freedom of expression and fundamental rights. The criticism of the current government and the President is severely punished as a presidential insult. Calls for the resumption of the peace process with the PKK so that the bloody civil war can be averted and a peaceful solution can be found to the Kurdish question are proclaimed as support for terrorism. The prosecution of elected parliamentarians comes in the wake of the imprisonment of critical journalists and forced state takeover of opposition media. At the same time, the Turkish people are constantly seeing social media like Twitter, Facebook and YouTube closed to avoid criticism of the Turkish Government and President Erdogan. Turkey is developing from a fragile democracy to a repressive regime under Erdogan. This development is very dangerous. The attack on the opposition is particularly damaging to the pro-Curdish and left-wing party HDP. It is a party which, in the June elections last year, succeeded in depriving Erdogan of his majority. It is a party which, if any, has led the attempt to find a political and peaceful solution to the Kurdish question. It is a party which not only represents a large part of the Kurdish minority in the population, but is supported by Christians, alemians, yazidians, by hundreds of thousands of women's freedom fighters, LGBT activists and employees in Turkish cities such as Istanbul, Ankara and Izmir. Everything seems to indicate that the democratic forces that have fought hard for peace will soon be in prison. Already, mayors, academics and journalists are behind bars. There is no doubt that the short-circuit of democracy and the prosecution of parliamentarians will result in an escalation of civil war in the Kurdish parts of Turkey. Even now more than 200,000 civilians have been hunted on the run from the besieged Kurdish cities. Hundreds of civilians have been killed. Here in the Folketing we often talk about doing something in the neighbourhoods. Turkey is a close area to the civil war in Syria, but Turkey is also a country in civil war. This civil war will explode and send hundreds of thousands of refugees against Europe if it goes as wrong as it looks. Unfortunately, this is not the first time that the opposition has been facing prison in Turkey. Back in the 1990s were among other things: the Kurdish Member of Parliament Leyla Zana was deprived of his immunity, prosecuted and imprisoned. Her crime was to speak Kurdish in the Turkish Parliament. Her imprisonment was the start of an escalation of the civil war, which cost tens of thousands of civilians, not least Kurdish civilians, who ran millions from their homes, and we saw thousands of villages in the south-east of Turkey being burned down. It was a bloody civil war that divided Turkish society and cost too many Turkish families their loved ones. Such a civil war must be avoided for everything in the world. We do not need another bloody civil war on the border with Europe. We do not need another despotic leader in the Middle East. We do not need even more people in the world to be chased on the run. We need the Turkish Government to be reminded of its obligations as a member of the Council of Europe to guarantee fundamental democratic rights. It is time that the Turkish Government complied with its agreements and followed the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. It is time for the absurd legislation of terrorism, which criminalises something as legitimate as calls for peace, to be changed. We cannot turn a blind eye to oppression. We should stand up to Erdogan. We should support democratic forces. We should work to ensure that the European Union and the Council of Europe do the same. We must push the parties back to the negotiating table in order to ensure a peaceful solution to the Kurdish question so as to ensure peace for the entire population of Turkey. On behalf of the Socialists, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Enhedslisten, the Liberal Alliance, the Alternative, the Radical Left, the SF and the Conservative People's Party, I would like to propose the following proposals for adoption: The Parliament takes note with deep concern of the Turkish Parliament's decision to waive parliamentary immunity for MEPs with pending cases against them and calls on the government to follow the coinage and, if necessary, to seek the case raised against Turkey, among other things. through the EU and the Council of Europe, with the Folketing referring to V 28 from 2016. V 75).
ParlaMint-DK_20160525131526	Thank you. And that proposal will be included in the further discussion. Then we go to the rapporteur's line, 'no', there is certainly a brief comment from Mrs Mette Bock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525131541	That is just a brief comment, because we agree on a great deal in this, and the very broad session on the proposal for adoption shows that too. But I would really like to ask a question. Now in his speech, the rapporteur put a great deal of emphasis on the persecution of the Kurds, and there is a good reason why he did so, because it is such a large group in Turkey, but there are a large number of others who are also subjected to these absurdities. Does the Enhedslisten have any concrete proposals, in addition to going through the usual channels, which are also pointed out in the proposal for adoption, on what else could be done to push for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525131620	Here you go, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525131621	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mrs Mette Bock for stressing the importance of not just the Kurdish part of the Turkish population being oppressed. We see other opposition forces, critical journalists and critical media, trade unionists, human rights defenders, women's activists being actively persecuted. What is crucial is that we, both from Denmark and from the Council of Europe and the European Union, keep Turkey up with the agreements that have already been concluded. I think it is important to emphasise that Turkey is a member of the Council of Europe, that Turkey has undertaken to follow the judicial decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. And when we talk about, for example, the legislation that is now going to put a great many parliamentarians in prison, if everything goes as it seems, the legislation that has been overruled by the European Court of Human Rights. So it is absolutely essential that we keep Turkey up the agreements that have been reached and that we put pressure on the Turkish Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525131721	Mrs. Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525131723	Is Enhedslisten also willing that it should actually have consequences when you do not comply with these agreements, and what consequences, if any, do Enhedslisten think it should have?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525131735	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525131736	We have had that discussion before, and we had it, for example, ahead of the agreement reached between the European Union and Turkey, where it was the Enhedslisten's proposal that Denmark should not pay out these 286 million Danish tax dollars to the Turkish Government without complying with the agreements that had already been concluded, for example, following the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. And unfortunately there was no majority for that in the Folketing. However, there is no doubt that if we are to push the Turkish President Erdogan, it is essential that we put action behind the words, and we in the Enhedslist are prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525131815	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525131823	Thank you. I'm sorry, but the timing's a little teasing. I won't let myself be distracted by the 30 seconds left here. Turkey is an important alliance partner for the West, just as Turkey is an official candidate country for the European Union, and it has to be said that in the times we are in, with flows of refugees and so on. It has been shown that we have once again confirmed that Turkey and Europe are important players in relation to each other. This is true both in terms of meeting the challenges, but also in terms of political development. Having said that, it is no secret, and we have also discussed this on several occasions in this Chamber, that Turkey is suffering many unfortunate and sometimes many problematic cases, as the European Commission's annual report also points out. According to the report "Turkey 2015" the political developments in the country are going the wrong way. The pace of reform has slowed down, a number of actions by the AKP government have called into question relevant areas such as legal certainty, freedom of expression and freedom of assembly. The independence of the courts and the principle of the separation of powers have been undermined and judges and prosecutors have been under strong political pressure, writes the European Commission, which among other things. It also notes the need for significant efforts to restore and safeguard the independence of the judiciary. As you know, developments have led to the persecution of journalists and students, satire signers and young people who have been persecuted on more or less dubious grounds, among others. for insults to the President. Now we see that the government is trying to undermine the opposition by abolishing the immunity of elected politicians, the majority of whom are from the Kurdish minority, and with accusations of inter alia. support for terror and the PKK. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has, I think, explained very well the process and also the criticism that has been made by the European side, so I do not think it is possible to go deeper into the process here, but I would say that it is of course difficult to stand here in the Danish Parliament and judge in individual cases. One cannot deny the relevance of one thing or another, but it is quite clear, and I think one must be a blind hen in order not to be able to see that the trend is systematic and obvious, and there is no doubt that this development must be seen in the light of the ceasefire with the PKK and the collapse of the peace negotiations with the Kurds. That is why, of course, this is a regrettable and deeply worrying development, which is not only contempt for civilians, but also, as such, contempt for those who have the mandate as elected representatives. After all, we know that a long-term solution to the conflict must and must contain both a new ceasefire, but also a politically negotiated peace, and that is why I am pleased that we can give our support to the opinion which is now broadly based on the parties of the Folketing and which, of course, expresses deep concern about developments. I would also like to call on the government to do so, I also sense that the government is following this development closely, and then I think it is also an important and a good signal to send out once again that we are a united Parliament behind a statement that looks at the developments that are taking place with great concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525132204	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525132207	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Bruus to help ensure that it is a united Parliament which can send this signal to the Turkish Government and the Turkish Parliament. We also think that this is valuable. But Mr. Jeppe Bruus mentioned one thing that I think I should like to ask more about. Sir. Jeppe Bruus said that Turkey was an important alliance partner for the West, and that is what I am thinking: against whom? Well, we've heard that, for example. President Obama and others have appointed Islamic State as the greatest threat to Western values. Then you might ask: is Turkey a partner in the fight against the Islamic State or organisations that are completely similar to the Islamic State? They may have another name like al-Nusra etc.? There we have to note that a number of journalists are in prison and their newspapers are closed because they have revealed how the Turkish regime has cooperated with the Islamic State. That's why I'd like to ask you a few questions about what Mr. Jeppe Bruus actually means by saying that Turkey was an important alliance partner for the West. Is it in understanding a desire that they should be, or is it a reality that they are?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525132327	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525132328	Well, I think if you look at the development and management of the refugee flows and the conflicts that exist, it seems that Turkey is an important alliance partner. But what Mr. Søren Søndergaard does not ask, is that the second part of it: is that an excuse to keep an eye on Turkey in relation to the things that go the wrong way? No, I certainly don't think so. That is also why we are now taking part in a joint motion for a resolution here in the Danish Parliament expressing deep concern about the developments that are taking place and about a large number of points which Mr Tugendhat has also mentioned. Søren Søndergaard mentioned this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525132404	Thank you, and then I think that the word you could also be replaced by the word man. At least that's how I see it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525132411	Let us take that with the refugees: are they an important alliance partner there? Firstly, they themselves have created part of the flow of refugees by supporting Islamist forces in Syria. That is part of the reason why so many flee. They have delayed the crackdown on the Islamic State by the Kurdish forces, which in itself is also a problem and one of the causes of the flow of refugees, and then they are consistently violating the refugee conventions. I thought that the West, if we do not talk geography, in one sense or another, was going on some values, such as values. was about respect for the refugee convention. There are no important alliance partners there either, as things stand today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525132450	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525132452	I fully agree that we have a different view of whether we should cooperate with Turkey in meeting the challenges we face. I must then acknowledge and respect that we have. However, I also believe that we share the view expressed by this debate, namely that of concern and criticism of the developments which are going in the wrong direction in Turkey.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525132517	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525132519	Thank you. Of course Denmark must cooperate with Turkey. Nobody's suggesting that. What is crucial is that we also criticise when there is something to criticise, and there I have to say that frankly I think there is a great deal to criticise when we talk about Turkey's failure to act in the fight against ISIL and Al Nusra in Syria. This is something that has also been discussed in Turkey. I mean, if we look at one of the charges that, among other things, is against Selahattin Demirtaş, co-chairman of the HDP, so it is that he concluded and publicly said that President Erdogan is avenging himself when President Erdogan made sure that journalists who had exposed arms smuggling from Turkish intelligence into Syria into extremist groups were imprisoned for presidential insult. Honestly, the problem is that there is a situation in which the Turkish Government is holding hands over extreme forces and that the forces in Turkey who criticise it, elected parliamentarians, are now in prison because they have criticised the Turkish President Erdogan. To be honest, is that not unacceptable?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525132627	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525132629	It's a little thought-provoking, isn't it? Nikolaj Villumsen has just read out a joint statement on the basis of this debate, which I have just repeated we support from the Socialist side, and then ask whether we disagree with expressing that concern. No, we're not, I just said that. Then it is clear that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525132701	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525132703	I am pleased that the Socialists are in favour of the proposal for adoption, which fortunately all the parties of the Danish Parliament support, and which clearly criticises the prosecution of parliamentarians. What I was reacting to was the whole discussion about whether we have a situation today, when Turkey is an important alliance partner in the fight against ISIL, because the problem is that some of the things for which parliamentarians are imprisoned are criticism of support for extreme forces in Syria. I just want to hear from the Socialist rapporteur whether he agrees that support for extreme forces inside Syria is not an active effort in the fight against ISIL.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525132743	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525132744	With all due respect to the question, there are many things being mixed up here. What I started by saying was that Turkey is, of course, an important partner, both geographically and politically, but that it is not an excuse not to criticise, nor to criticise very sharply the wrong developments that exist in Turkey, namely the positive reforms that are now being rolled back, the persecutions that are, as I also mentioned, by journalists, by young people, and, as we now see, by politicians, the link with the conflict that has existed with the Kurds in Turkey. Then, of course, we can go in and do what the questioner then does, very specifically in relation to individual statements. When I said that Turkey was an important partner, it was in the broad picture.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525132834	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. And I must say that we should not be confused by the fact that there is only one minute in the first place. That's because the technique can't show 4 minutes. That's why you don't have 1 minute and then it lights up again after 3 minutes. You have 4 minutes in total. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525132854	Thank you. We are then again here in the Folketing expressing criticism of Turkey's doings and barn. It is not more than two months since the Folketing last discussed developments in Turkey. At that time it was a case of foreshadowed legal action in cases where Turks must be accused of insulting President Recep Erdogan, and now it is so mad again. Now we see that the Turkish Parliament has recently adopted a legislative package which could lead to the waiver of parliamentary immunity, for example. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). If the legislative package is approved in its entirety, a large number of delegates will risk being prosecuted, and allegedly the crimes are listed in political views and criticism of the government. It is worthy of a banana republic. I must therefore repeat that the Danish People's Party basically looks with scepticism at Turkey and its President, Recep Erdogan. It is about Turkey's own situation, that is to say. Freedom for its own citizens, but certainly also in relation to Turkey's respect for the democratic traditions of the Western world. The scepticism of the Danish People's Party also applies to Turkey's perception of Europe as a roof-top table, which is expected to assist Turkey financially for both general development and in relation to the current migrant crisis. As you know, Turkey's will and ability to limit migratory flows to Europe has so far seemed restrained, not to say absent, unless, of course, the European Union, with Mrs Merkel in the lead, is desperately begging Turkey to protect us, of course, from a sloppy payment. It is only surprising that an overwhelming majority in the Folketing, on the one hand, will soon support a critical proposal for the adoption of Turkey and, at the same time, unwaveringly support the EU's frugal efforts to conclude agreements with the same Turkey to defend the EU's external borders. No, apparently there are no limits to who the European Union will cooperate with and how much it will pay, as long as there is agreement that we must certainly not insist on the most obvious solution to migratory flows, namely a firm defence of Europe's external borders. It is also surprising that a single European Union has not immediately interrupted negotiations with Turkey on visa freedom as soon as it became known that Turkey would waive parliamentary immunity for critics. And there is probably more exciting to come from Turkey. At the beginning of May, the President of the Turkish Parliament, Ismail Kahraman, will have said the following, and that is my own translation: Turkey is a Muslim country; that is why we must have a religious constitution. I believe that there is no clearer signal that Turkey is rapidly moving away from democracy in the Western sense. In DF we congratulate ourselves on the fact that this time it may appear clear that it is naive to expect Turkey to contribute to anything that is not primarily in Turkey's interest. The Danish People's Party supports the proposed adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525133143	Thank you. So there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525133146	Thank you. Just as I thanked the Social Democratic Party, I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for helping to ensure that we can send a united stand against what is happening. I think this is important because, in relation to the defence of parliamentarians, it should not be a party political issue, but a question of MEPs not being put in prison without a very specific accusation and clarification of its validity. But what I would like to ask the Danish People's Party is whether the Danish People's Party might be involved, as it is precisely a matter of parliamentarians that we took the initiative from the Danish People's Party either to select some or more permanently attended the trials and showed our support for those MEPs who are at risk of being put on the dock as a purely interparliamentary initiative. Was it an initiative that the Danish People's Party might be involved in considering?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525133248	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525133249	I thank the rapporteur for the proposal. I think this is an interesting idea and I can confirm that it is something that the Danish People's Party will consider.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525133301	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525133317	Thank you. There is no doubt that this is an absolutely relevant issue on which the three parties have raised the debate. For just as we had a really good debate on Turkey in March, I think it was, but unfortunately there is also reason to raise the red flag again, in relation to how and how developments are practical in Turkey at the moment. With the concrete decision taken by the Turkish Parliament on Friday, which is expected to be signed by the President, we will then go in to change all the legislation in Turkey. Then, of course, you can turn it around and ask whether it is not very understandable from the perspective of Danish spectacles that you can waive immunity for elected Members. You can do that in Denmark, too, in a large number of European countries, and you can in a way agree with that. But it is just that it has to be seen in combination with Turkish legislation, which has been tightened up dramatically, not least in relation to the entire anti-terrorist legislation, so that a large number, not least Kurdish Members of the Turkish Parliament, can now be prosecuted, just because they have expressed themselves in a direction which they think is the right one, for example. About more autonomy for the Kurds etc. So there is no doubt that it is impossible to escape the fact that the waiver of immunity actually threatens fundamental European rights, including freedom of expression. One can be quite concerned, and in fact one can see that this is really part of the repression of the opposition. Furthermore, the waiver of parliamentary immunity also leads to a weakening of general confidence in the political system. And in a country such as Turkey, where it is already as low as it is, that is to say confidence, it is also causing real, real concern. The possibility of achieving lasting peace and consensus in Turkey, particularly with regard to the problem of the Kurdish minority, with the lifting of parliamentary immunity, will also be very poor. So what are we gonna do? In addition to the fact that I think it is right, very positive, that in this matter too the whole Parliament is united on the very sharp text of adoption, we must also take advantage of the bodies that we have, namely the European Union, but also the Council of Europe. And it can be seen here that the Council of Europe has already taken up the matter and has come to the conclusion very strongly that the developments that are taking place in Turkey at the moment, not least in relation to the case we are talking about, are going the wrong way and that Turkey should therefore correct it. We have among other things. I believe that the Liberal Group in the European Parliament has made a very, very strong decision on this which they sent out on Thursday. So, on the whole, we on the Left can say that we are very concerned about developments in Turkey. We are very concerned that this is the European road that Erdogan has taken. We see trends in moving away from what we would call quite fundamental parliamentary rights and democratic rights. That is why we should also state clearly that this path is wrong, and we should also take advantage of the opportunities that exist, among other things. in the Council of Europe and the European Union, to get Turkey back on the right track. So with the wish that Turkey too should hear the sharp signal that we stand together in the Assembly, then we can absolutely support the text of the adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525133643	Thank you. And then it's sir. Søren Søndergaard for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525133647	Again, I would like to thank the Left for joining the sharp signal. Now I know the Left as a party that has also used it in various contexts to send delegations to draw attention to human rights violations, for example. in relation to Belarus, and for very good reason. That is why I think it might be interesting to hear whether it was also an idea that the Left would consider, in other words that we, as a parliament, in relation to other parliamentarians who are exposed to the problem, if it came to legal proceedings, considered following the trials and thus signalled opposition to what is going on and support for the people who are being subjected to it. Would this be a proposal that the Left would consider as a purely interparliamentary action, or what to call it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525133738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525133739	Thank you for the question. No, frankly, I do not see how useful it would be for me or any other of my colleagues to sit down in a Turkish courtroom, although it would certainly be very alarming to see how the parliamentary legal system works. Where, on the other hand, I think it would make a difference, were some of the organisations of which Turkey is a member, and I have mentioned the Council of Europe, but also the OSCE, to send delegations so that some of them could attend the trials and also be able to speak out clearly. After all, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has two rapporteurs who have been elected to be the Euopa Council, we have to say extended arms in relation to monitoring Turkey, and if I were to make a call, it would be that they, for example. Both could go down and be present in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525133831	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525133832	Firstly, thank you for the undertaking that the rapporteur of the Left, who is also chairman of the Council of Europe delegation, will work to ensure that the Council of Europe responsible is sent down to attend the trials. Now the rapporteur just said a trial and I think the rapporteur needs to be aware that what we are going to talk about is hundreds of court cases with hundreds of hearings. That is why I think it might be a bit daring to bet that a few members of the Council of Europe can do that. Well, I think in a number of countries we interparliamentary must agree that this is what we are following. After all, we have heard that it was effective in the past, and that is also why it has been done in relation to Ukraine and elsewhere. It has an effect that there are representatives from other parliaments who do not have a certain political attitude, but come from the point of view of being a parliamentarian who does not have a certain political attitude, but comes from the point of view of being a parliamentarian who defends other parliamentarians. So if the two representatives of the Council of Europe cannot achieve everything, I hope that the Left will reconsider the idea of making an initiative here on the part of the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525133940	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525133941	Well, I hear what is being said, and I fully agree that there will be many, many different legal cases, with all the cases that already appear to be coming against the various Members of Parliament. But I must also say that, with my experience in Turkey, not least in relation to the AKP party, they like to be part of the international community and, above all, part of European society. That is why I think it would play a greater role if some of the established organisations came and said: now we are here and we are monitoring, so to speak, whether things are going on properly or not. I think that just has a much, much greater effect than if there are in the goose-eyes of random Members from the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525134021	Thank you. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525134021-2	Thank you. I would just like to start by joining the Glee Club of people who praise the Left for the fact that today we are in a situation in which we have a united Parliament which supports a very, very sharp proposal for adoption, which we can adopt together tomorrow in the Folketing. Following on from this discussion about what we can try to do to follow up on what is happening, it is clear that the signal we send to the government by the Folketing is that the government must follow up. But it is also worth considering what we can do. What we have unfortunately seen, for example in the trial of these chief editors who had revealed arms smuggling from Turkish intelligence services to extreme groups inside Syria, was that when some EU countries came along with their delegations to follow the trial, they were rejected and were not allowed to attend the trial. I think it underlines the importance of our being very focused on being open to different things and that European cooperation under the auspices of the Council of Europe can be important, where we both have the honour of being active, but also within the European Union circle, to push for and perhaps use it for parliamentarians to go, as a tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525134135	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525134135-2	Well, I am very ready to ensure that we get as much focus as possible on the trials that are now expected to take place in Turkey. And then we have to talk about how we do it in practice. We are certainly open to doing so, not least through the Council of Europe and the OSCE, where I also sit and also use those tools. I think we agree on the target. Now all we have to do is figure out how to get to the target.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525134200	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525134222	Erdogan is pursuing political opponents. Peace talks with the Kurds and others have been put on hold. Journalists are being persecuted. Censorship comes insidious with control via social media. And I could, in fact, continue with the series of issues that it is worth discussing with a country such as Turkey. I therefore find it gratifying that we have had this debate in the Danish Parliament, and I think it is particularly welcome that so many parties support the proposal for adoption that follows on from the debate. It is important that we continue to put pressure on Turkey, but I also think it is essential that we discuss what Turkey's role is now and in the coming years. A great many things are happening in the world at the moment, and for decades Turkey has wanted to join the European Union. The negotiations have continued. The negotiations have stood still. The negotiations have been resumed. But Turkey has clearly been in a waiting position, and it has pulled out and pulled out. Now many new things have happened in the countries around Turkey, and I see little doubt that Turkish politicians with Erdogan at the head sense that now Turkey can have a different role. In other words, if the European Union were to turn its back on Turkey, it could be that Turkey could play a primary role in what is happening in the Middle East at the moment. This is a situation which offers many opportunities, but, to put it mildly, it also poses a great many risks. That is why it is important for the Liberal Alliance to realise that we must keep Turkey on the path of democratisation and that we must keep to the dialogue with Turkey, but at the same time we must also have the courage to leave the consequences when we discover that Turkey is not complying with agreements that Turkey itself has concluded. I therefore think that what is contained in the proposal for adoption which has now been tabled is fine. It is good that we are using the political channels we have at all for that. But the reason why I asked the Enhedslisten's rapporteur what consequences, apart from being willing to draw, are, in fact, that we in the Liberal Alliance are calling for a greater consequence. Because if you can keep stretching the elastic band a little longer and committing a little more violations in relation to agreements that you yourself have been involved in, without having any consequences, then we know very well what is happening. Then the elastic will just be stretched even further out. That is why it is gratifying that we are taking the debate. It is gratifying that in the Danish Parliament we can broadly agree on a proposal for adoption. On the part of the Liberal Alliance, we want us to use the political channels that exist, but we also want us to have a discussion on the consequences that it should actually have for Turkey, the choice of violating agreements and obligations that we ourselves have undertaken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525134531	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525134537	Thank you for some extremely important considerations, because we actually fully agree that this should have consequences. Then, of course, the question is which, because the consequences must also be such that we, for example, have to do so. maintains the possibility of having a contact, at least with those who want democracy and human rights. And that's why it's not always an easy choice, what you actually do. In other words, we have mentioned some things in which we think it is obvious that we could say something about Turkey, but I would like to know if the rapporteur had any suggestions as to what it might be like. could be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525134619	Thank you. I have to say that it is so nice to see so many listeners, we are always happy about that. But you don't need a flash. Unfortunately, it's a little disturbing down here in the Assembly Hall. And then you can sit down, or I'll just be afraid someone's gonna fall down. That wouldn't be so good. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525134636	That would be boring. Thank you for the question. I very much agree with Enhedslisten in this area, and we are in fact broad in the Danish Parliament. What I want with what I said in my rapporteur's speech is to raise the debate on it, because we are also uncertain. And, as I said myself, it is important that Turkey is not just pushed away. Because if we do that, we risk it getting even worse. Turkey can almost be regarded as a squeezed middle child at the moment, not that it is an excuse to behave in the way Turkey does. However, it is important that, on the one hand, we maintain dialogue with Turkey and, on the other hand, that we are actually consistent with what we are saying. I can mention one thing, and it has not been discussed with anyone, but when Turkey is a member of the Council of Europe, one might consider whether Turkey can continue to be a member of the Council of Europe, given their behaviour. Perhaps this could also be discussed in relation to others who are members of the Council of Europe. But I do not really think it makes sense that we have these fora where you commit to certain things and then violate those things, not just once, but again and again. Do you have to stay in that forum? I'm just mentioning it as an example that could be others. It may also be a bad idea for them not to be members of the Council of Europe, but I just think we should try to list what consequences it might have when we discover this kind of thing: which could we give priority to, which could we not? If we are to have that discussion again in Parliament in a year's time, as I imagined, it is important that we try to bring the discussion a little further than to condemn it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525134813	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525134814	I think this is an extremely relevant and important discussion, which we are certainly prepared to contribute to. After all, the example of the Council of Europe shows very well the dilemma, because if we say that Turkey is completely removed from the Council of Europe, it means that a Turkish citizen can no longer bring cases before the European Court of Human Rights, and that is the ultimate guarantee, an individual Turkish citizen who has been subjected to violations by the Turkish State, that he can go to the European Court of Human Rights. Then it is not always, it has a great impact on what is happening in Turkey, but it is certainly right to go to the European Court of Human Rights. However, I think it might be something we could also ask the Foreign Ministry and the Minister for Foreign Affairs to make some suggestions about, in other words, what steps we can actually take in such situations, because this will not be the last time, as the rapporteur says.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525134907	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525134908	I fully agree with that, it is absolutely correct, and there is the dilemma of whether or not something should have consequences. Because we have the two levels. We have the intergovernmental level where it is politicians who talk, and then we have the level that is about civilians. It's a few different channels you're working on. Like I said, I don't have the answers. I just think we should try to move the discussion forward towards the discussion that we will probably have again in a year's time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525134934	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525134938	Thank you. I will also sign for the important words of the Liberal Alliance that it is important to put pressure on. Unfortunately, we have a situation where we see Erdogan stretching the elastic band and action must be taken behind the words. Fortunately, we have a situation in which we have a united Parliament which backs a very sharp adoption today. What made me sign up on the list of speakers was that, unfortunately, we have a situation in which the Liberal Alliance did not support the Enhedslisten's proposal to demand compliance with Turkey's agreements and follow-up to the decisions of the Court of Human Rights before we gave more than a quarter of a billion Danish tax dollars to the Turkish Government. So I just want to hear Mrs Mette Bock: if it is the case that we are once again in a situation where the Turkish President Erdogan is blackmailing the EU and Denmark for money, will the Liberal Alliance be involved in demanding that Turkey live up to the agreements that have already been reached?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525135036	Mrs. Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525135037	The question is, of course, a very good illustration of the fact that politics is a patchwork, in other words, where things are patching up over each other, because the agreement to which the rapporteur refers here is an agreement that interferes with the whole situation of the refugee and migrant issues. This is another very, very big problem which involves a whole series of things other than what we are discussing here when we talk about how the Turkish Government treats its own citizens on a democratic basis. So I can only say that we stand by the decision we made at the time when we had to make that decision, but at the same time we are fully aware of what is happening in Turkey at the moment and want to pursue a path where we can sanction it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525135125	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525135126	I would say that I am a little sad to hear, because it was an obvious opportunity when you give more than a quarter of a billion Danish tax dollars, so to make demands. After all, this is an obvious negotiating situation in which we have that opportunity, and it can be said that demanding that Turkey live up to fundamental human rights is a pretty good condition for them to be able to take care of refugees, but of course also that we can avoid the very, very tragic situation we are in right now, when it is Turkish citizens, not least in the Kurdish areas of the country that are being chased on the run. More than 200,000 are currently fleeing. So I would just like to call on the Liberal Alliance to consider whether, in future, such situations could also be places where action should be taken behind words and pressure should be put on the Turkish President and the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525135209	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525135210	Of course, we will always consider it, just as we consider it, every time we make decisions in an area. One might say that in this case the alternative might be worse understood in the sense that we are standing with our backs against the wall in relation to a refugee and migrant crisis. And there you can say the question has been: Do you want to drink rat poison or arsenic? We have then chosen differently from Enhedslisten in this situation, but the dilemma is there, I fully acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525135240	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525135244	Now I also asked for the floor here when there was talk of consistency, so it is not really in an attempt to be polemical that I am going to continue talking about this. But it is precisely a huge agreement that the European Union has made with Turkey on the refugee situation. It is, after all, a great deal of money that we are throwing on the table and also some very, very large political concessions we are making to the Turkish regime. Then the rapporteur also believes that it might be worth questioning it; that the EU should say that there is also a blonde here, that is to say: we cannot just go on making an agreement, but there are so many violations of fundamental rights that we may have to suspend it here at some point, because we do not feel that our partner is meeting the demands we make?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525135334	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525135335	I mean, if I need a metaphor for the dilemma we are discussing here, it is: If you are in your private home and there are simply some who are constantly attacking your home, you are of course addressing the police in the first place, but if you find that the police are simply not able to protect your home, then it would be quite natural to start thinking about other options, including addressing some others who can do this task. That's not a good solution. The problem with the refugee and migrant crisis is, of course, that we have just been shown that the European Union is completely paralysed in terms of securing the external borders. That would certainly be the best solution, and I think there is a broad political consensus on that too. We can only note that this is not happening and that we are standing with our backs against the wall and must have done something. Then this agreement has been made with Turkey, and it is certainly not an agreement that the Liberal Alliance is cheering over; I would like to say this quite openly. We have just not seen other options, as the situation currently stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525135432	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525135434	Does the rapporteur not agree that we need to re-evaluate all the time? In other words, when we make such major agreements, which have such far-reaching consequences, and where, unfortunately, I think that, when I look at the situation in Turkey, I see a President who is laughing because he can always threaten us in relation to people, that is, this trade in people that he is doing, then we also have to stand up for the values and stand up for the rights that we believe in in Europe. So, does the rapporteur not agree that we need to constantly evaluate and that we may have to suspend it here, even if there is a refugee situation that is challenging?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525135512	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525135514	That's kind of what I put up in my speech. Moreover, I would like to say that the agreement on the refugee and migrant crisis is in fact being revised from the same day that the ink was dry, in other words as it was signed. We are in the process of discussing this, so we are in the process of doing so. However, I am very pleased that several people have indicated that we must try to move the discussion forward in relation to consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525135537	Thank you to Mrs Mette Bock. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525135558	This is the first time I've tried to turn up the platform. That's how it is to be one of the little ones. If you look at Turkish politics, it is difficult to see the bright spots. The Turkish Government, led by Erdogan, is dismantling Turkish democracy, and we should not allow that to happen. The latest shot at the tribe in that process is the decision of the Turkish Parliament to take the immunity of elected politicians. It is more than obvious to believe that this decision is closely linked to Erdogan's persecution of political opponents, especially the pro-Curdian forces such as the HDP party. It is therefore a politically motivated decision that violates political freedom of expression and democracy. It is almost a year since HDP crashed into the Turkish Parliament with 13%. of the votes. The people had spoken and wanted clear and more pro-Curdian forces to be heard. That result was already changed in November when Turkey made another early election and Erdogan's AKP regained the parliamentary majority. At the same time, the peace process between the PKK and the government of Ankara has been at a very near freezing point or rather non-existent. The fronts have been pulled up and the violence has flared up again. Erdogan's targeted restrictions on the freedom of expression of the Kurds have increased. I believe that we are seeing a pattern in which Erdogan deliberately and systematically tries to marginalise and undermine Kurdish influence on Turkish politics. It's not news, but it happens with a speed and an intensity that should make all red lights blink. I must strongly condemn Erdogan's maneuvers. This trend is affecting a wider negative spiral in which Turkey is increasingly compromising its population and, in particular, the fundamental freedoms and political rights of minorities. We have recently witnessed Erdogan's takeover of free media, the arrest and persecution of critical journalists and the brutal and unlawful treatment of refugees, and Erdogan's military campaign against Daesh has hit Kurdish targets inside Syria hard. Moreover, over the last few weeks, it has become clear that Turkey is also not complying with its part of the agreement with the European Union on the management of refugees. Basically, the agreement is deeply reprehensible. The EU outsources its responsibility to protect refugees to a country that cannot be regarded as a safe third country. But also more isolated, the agreement has put the situation in Turkey under wraps. Turkey cannot therefore be regarded as a credible partner and I therefore hope that, with recent developments in mind, the government will reconsider Danish support for the EU-Turkey agreement. Yes, we are calling for it to be suspended. Only in December last year, in other words only six months ago, the Danish Government stressed that it wholeheartedly supported the common EU line vis-à-vis Turkey, where the issue of fundamental human rights, including freedom of expression and the press, played a key role in the accession negotiations. Unfortunately, I see at the moment that the European Union, through its cooperation with Turkey, is undermining its own commitments to democracy and therefore cannot speak with a strong voice when situations such as this arise. I believe that we need to stand firm and uphold our principles. Furthermore, I call on the government to put pressure on the government of Turkey to resume negotiations with the Kurds. Here HDP can and should also play a central role. We are simply not making progress, moving towards a negotiated peace and a fair solution to the Kurdish question, if we do not put pressure on the strongest party, the Turkish Government, to resume the dialogue, even if, of course, we do not welcome the methods and actions of the PKK. Looking at regional development, it is clear that a democratic Turkey is essential to regional stability. This is particularly true in relation to the war in Syria, where Turkey plays a key role. The continued repression, in which the Kurds are excluded and denied their political identity inside and outside Turkey, is not conducive to this desire. It is also important here that we make a clear stand against Turkey. Our voice means something to Turkey's own people and to the region's future development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525140051	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so that is Mr. Johannes Lebech, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525140100	Turkey is a country that spans widely, yes, in concrete terms, it is the bridge between Europe and our neighbouring continent. Turkey has been a candidate country for the European Union for many years, and many of us have supported Turkey in that process and can see Turkey as part of the European Community. It is precisely against this background that we want to express our concern about the many unfortunate political tendencies we can see in Turkey today. We can see attacks on freedom of the press, we can see new parliamentary laws threatening the legitimate elected representatives, and we can see persecution of the Kurdish minority. We are not blind to the great challenges that Turkey faces. This applies to the growing terrorism of many different groups, but also, of course, to the great refugee challenge in which Turkey, with 1.5 million Syrian refugees, takes its responsibility for solving that problem. However, although we can say many positive things about Turkey, we cannot fail to express our concern about a number of initiatives taken by the current government and which are now also taken by a majority of the Turkish Parliament. These must be seen as a development in the wrong direction with a view to respect for human rights and the development of Turkish democracy. We can therefore, of course, endorse the proposal for adoption put forward by a broad majority in the Folketing, and I note that it is also part of the proposal that we will make our influence felt in a European context and, together with other European partners, put pressure on Turkey so that Turkey can move in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525140244	Thank you. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525140247	Thank you for that, and thank you to the radical rapporteur and to the Radical Left for supporting this very sharp proposal for adoption which we will adopt tomorrow. What I would like to hear from the radical rapporteur is: what was the real reason why the Radical Left did not support the holding of this urgent request?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525140311	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525140312	Since I am acting as a substitute for the real rapporteur, I have not taken part in the debate on this urgent question, so unfortunately I am unable to answer why our usual rapporteur, who is prevented from coming, hesitated to do so. I am absolutely convinced, also from the conversation I have had with him, that we fully share the proposal for adoption that is coming here, and we are also quite clearly in the Radical Left aware of the situation in Turkey and we are very concerned about that situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525140344	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525140359	I agree with all those colleagues who have expressed criticism and concern about developments in Turkey. This is something that has been on its way for a long time, and has a very similar background in Erdogan's thriving power. It is as if there are such political types as Putin, Erdogan and others who, like them, attach a great deal of importance to the fact that they themselves can gain power in the country where they sit and, for that reason, all opposition goes aside, all the forces that might prevent them from doing so. There is no doubt that, when it has developed negatively lately, it also has something to do with the parliamentary elections that took place last June, when Erdogan had expected him to obtain a qualified majority in Parliament so that he, as President, could have more powers. As you know, this did not succeed, among other things. because HDP had a very good choice. And, as a starting point, HDP is a procurdic party, but is also a wider centre-left party which has succeeded in getting through also in parts of Turkey other than just the Kurdish territories. That is why it was so uplifting that one was getting, one might say, a force, an opposition to the left of Erdogan, who could challenge him and at least stop the worst parts of his thriving power. Since the elections, as Erdogan had wished, he has simply sabotaged any kind of initiative that would make Turkey play a more constructive role in the fight against the Islamic State. In other words, when Turkey has not been very effective in what is said to be counterproductive in the fight against the Islamic State, it is because it has wanted to fight Kurds more than it has wanted to fight Islamists, and because it has focused more on the domestic political struggle than on the fight against the Islamic State. This is, of course, completely unsatisfactory, especially when Turkey is allied with us in NATO and forms part of a number of different European contexts in cooperation with Denmark as well. That is why we have a great interest in discussing what is happening in Turkey and putting pressure on Turkey, and that is what we are doing here today. It is very welcome that there is agreement on the critical proposal for adoption in relation to Turkey. One might ask what it is going to be of importance, but I think it will be important now that a united parliament like this will mark it, in relation to what is happening, so that the Turkish parliamentarians will be able to see that a united parliament actually supports them in their struggle for more democracy and that a united Danish parliament criticises President Erdogan and his autocratic and undemocratic policy. So it's positive that we can do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525140732	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525140738	Respect for human rights has greatly deteriorated in recent years in Turkey. The Turkish Government officially claims that it is part of the fight against terrorism, but that is not quite true. The general picture is that the government and Erdogan have fully suppressed any form of political opposition and, most recently, the humorous opposition. Newspapers are closed, journalists and opposition politicians are imprisoned, comedians are prosecuted. The Turkish legal system is totally politicised and no longer independent. It's deeply, deeply worrying. The Thinking Think Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Thinking Erdogan has evolved into a dangerous man, a humourless half-dictator who has smashed the Turkish model, otherwise an excellent model, where there was room for the secular, but also that people could be religiously private as much as they wanted. Turkey, of course, has the right and the duty to fight terrorism. Terrorist acts committed by both Kurdish groups and Islamist groups must be condemned and combated, but Turkey must be careful not to disregard human rights and the legal principles of this fight. At the same time, Turkey's response to the attacks by militant groups is not always proportionate. Turkey behaves very repressively towards the Kurdish minority and still does not respect human rights. It is extremely important that the dialogue between the Turkish Government and the Kurds, the PKK, should be resumed and that terrorist acts should stop. However, until that happens, it is important that the outside world, the European Union, the Council of Europe, Denmark and other institutions insist that the Turks respect human rights, press freedom, opposition freedom and release all political prisoners. And then we must hope and call on the Turkish opposition to take its place. It is enormously divided, and it is also part of Erdogan's strength. It is also important that the internal opposition of his party, which we saw expressed here recently when his Prime Minister resigned, shows that there is also an internal opposition. We must hope and encourage the opposition to step in and oppose Erdogan. But until that happens, it is important that we in Denmark help to maintain pressure, and that is why we are in the joint motion for a resolution, which has the participation of all the political parties in the Folketing. It sends a very, very strong signal to Erdogan and also shows a distance to his atrocities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525141104	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. I have to tell the audience that you have to sit down in the gallery, otherwise it will cause too much concern in this Chamber. We're glad you're here, but you have to sit down. Please, sit down. I can't believe it. Would you please leave the gallery, please? Do you want me to translate?). I think they got it. Well, there's no comment. Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. Then it's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525141145	Thank you for the speeches in a debate which, first of all, has shown a very unique consensus; an agreement on the draft text for adoption, which was read out by Mr Gundelach. Nikolaj Villumsen, who clearly emphasizes the deep concern that exists in the Danish Parliament regarding developments in Turkey. A few comments along the way. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen travelled among others. the question of whether or not Turkey is an alliance partner. That certainly depends on what kind of situation we are talking about. There is no doubt that they are part of NATO and are thus a NATO alliance partner and part of the cooperation we have there. They are also a crucial factor in achieving lasting peace in Syria. It is vital that Turkey, as a large and important neighbouring country, helps to shape the solution that must be found, and there is no doubt that, after a very hesitant start, Turkey is more committed to the fight against the ISIL Daesh, which they are also called international than they were at first. This is due, among other things, to: also that ISIL has been more active in carrying out terrorist attacks in Turkey, and thus the confrontation is clearer than we saw in the past, where some at least suspected Turkey of being more interested in letting ISIL be active against Kurdish forces than in fighting them. There is no doubt that, as we see it today, Turkey is crucial in many respects to the response to many of the questions that define the challenges both in Europe and in Denmark: peace in Syria, the management of the flows of refugees, the question of how we can effectively combat ISIL. Conversely, it is also clear that there are some of the things that are happening at the moment that seriously question the ways in which we work together, for example. visa-free issues. Visa liberalisation is, of course, an issue which, among other things, is a question. defined by whether Turkey will recognise the way in which we define terrorism on the part of the European Union or whether the examples of relatively peaceable statements that have been made by Turkish academics but which were treated as a call for terror are actually the way in which Turkey will organise itself. So there are plenty of questions yet. I still want to hold on to what the two journalists I spoke to Monday evening told me, namely that they would rather have a European Union that faces Turkey, engages, holds on to the debate and also tries to take into account the difficult issues that lie in Chapter 23 and Chapter 24. There it is, of course, not the European Union or Turkey, but a single EU country, Cyprus, which, for very specific reasons, is blocking us from moving forward. That is where we are discussing; yes, we must discuss freedom of expression, freedom of the press, independent courts, etc. It has been said several times that Turkey does not respect the European Court of Human Rights. That is partly true, but also only partially. There are, in fact, a number of judgments in which Turkey has been ordered, either directly or through the Turkish Constitutional Court, to comply with decisions of the Court of Human Rights, and then there are a number of decisions of the European Court of Human Rights concerning Cyprus that Turkey does not respond to at all. That was mentioned by Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen as a question or an invitation to more people whether to try to follow some of these trials in Parliament. I think it's an excellent idea to follow them. I do not know whether it should be parliamentary. It has been found that EU countries have followed the trial of the Ukrainian helicopter pilot, Savchenko, in turn. I can inform you that while we have been standing here talking, she has been released and has landed in Ukraine with President Poroshenko, so the unjust sentence of 22 years in prison that she was given has now been replaced by freedom at home in Ukraine. So it's important. And there are also a number of other countries around Europe where EU countries' ambassadors take turns following significant and crucial legal proceedings to ensure that there is a clear signal that we are aware of what is happening and that we are following it. I certainly believe that it may be necessary if not in relation to everyone, but then, at least for a number of these trials, to ensure that there is a presence to monitor that the trial is free and fair and that the courts act independently.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525141631	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525141634	Thank you. I would like to acknowledge that we are in a situation where we have a united Parliament, which sends a clear signal with the adoption of the proposal for adoption tomorrow, and I think it is positive that the Minister is constructively involved in the dialogue on how we, as parliamentarians, can contribute forward-lookingly and what we can do at different levels to follow up the matter. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister something quite specific. With the adoption tomorrow, there will be a call from the Danish Parliament to the government to follow up and, if necessary, raise the matter with the European Union and the Council of Europe if the persecution of MEPs continues. I would like to hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs tell us exactly what the Foreign Minister is thinking about, as to what initiatives the government might take.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525141726	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525141728	As far as the European Union is concerned, as I mentioned at the outset, it is already planned that on 31 May, at the meeting of the Association Committee between the European Commission and Turkey, the question of the waiver of immunity will be raised. We shall also pursue this matter at the meetings of the Council of Europe on subjects of different kinds. I would like to say that it might also be a very obvious issue to raise this issue in the IPU, in other words the Interparliamentary Union, where there are parliamentarians from a large number of countries to back each other up precisely in terms of the protection of immunity, so that a government does not prosecute an opposition unduly, and in this way they ensure that as many votes as possible are active here. And here the question is, of course, because the IPU is made up of parliamentarians and not of governments, that I have fewer opportunities to act than the parliamentarians here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525141830	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525141832	Thank you. It is quite obvious that we, as parliamentarians, can play a role both in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, under the auspices of the IPU and certainly also under the auspices of the OSCE. So I think it is very relevant that the Secretary of State brings it up. It has been discussed several times today how we can put action behind words and put pressure on them. Among other things, there were: talk about whether we could have the opportunity to discuss it with the Foreign Minister to hear what various tools we actually have in the toolbox in such a serious situation that we are facing. So I just want to hear from the Foreign Minister whether this is something that the Foreign Minister might be interested in engaging in dialogue with the Folketing on, for example, under the auspices of Foreign Policy Name, where we could have a discussion about what tools we have in the box to put pressure on the Turkish Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525141919	Thank you. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525141920	I am always ready for a dialogue, but I have to say that there is a difference between what is available in the toolbox and whether there is sufficient political will to use it in the circumstances. Remember that one of the tools available to the Council of Europe, namely the withdrawal of the right to vote, is something that has been used only with regard to Russia, in that they have annexed Crimea and they have violated Ukraine's independence. So it is a tool that is very, very difficult to gather support to use, despite the fact that it is in the toolbox. So there are different levels in this: One is what theoretically can be listed by possible tools, another is what we practically have a real chance to do. But what we have a chance to do, and what we know we can do, is that we in Denmark can take this up every time we have the opportunity, in dialogue with the Turkish Government, just as we did on Thursday.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525142015	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525142029	I would like to thank the parties of the Danish Parliament for an important debate that we have taken in the Chamber here today. I would like to thank the parties of the Folketing for coming together tomorrow to send out a very clear signal and make a clear decision criticising the human rights violations in Turkey. It is absolutely essential that we refrain from the prosecution of elected parliamentarians; that we refrain from the general repression of fundamental democratic rights, of the democratic forces in Turkey. It simply cannot be the case that a country which is a member of the Council of Europe, flagrantly shirks its responsibilities, violates agreements, violates the fundamental human rights which it has committed itself to respecting with its membership of the Council of Europe, with its signature on the European Convention on Human Rights. I would urge the government to follow up on the adoption that will come tomorrow from the Folketing; follow up on ensuring that action is taken, both within the Council of Europe and within the European Union, and in all other relevant forums, to put pressure on the Turkish Government, because unfortunately we are in a very, very serious situation and we need the Turkish Government to come under pressure. Unfortunately, what we have seen in several rounds, for example up to the re-election on 1 November last year, is that the European Union has hesitated, even in a situation where the European Commission withheld the annual report prior to the re-election on 1 November. It was a direct support for the Turkish President Erdogan and his Islamist AKP party in the election campaign. For when the report was detained, harsh criticism was avoided for attacks on fundamental democratic rights, for the imprisonment of journalists, for attacks on opposition parties, not least on HDP, but also on others, for the state of emergency imposed in large parts of south-eastern Turkey, the Kurdish territories in which the electorate was thereby deprived of the opportunity to participate actively in the election campaign. It can be said that the European Union has pursued a policy that has been deeply cynical about ignoring the repression in Turkey, in terms of actively supporting Turkish President Erdogan. It has been a strategy to avoid refugees entering Europe through Turkey, but it is a strategy that risks falling completely to the ground if the civil war in Turkey escalates. For right now we are in a situation where there is civil war in the south-east of Turkey; where hundreds of thousands of civilians have been hunted on the run; where hundreds of people have been killed; and where the current situation, with the waiver of immunity from the Kurdish parliamentarians in particular, risks leading to a violent escalation. So we are in a serious situation, a serious situation for Turkey, a serious situation for the Middle East, a serious situation for Europe. If the civil war in Turkey escalates, then hundreds of thousands of people will be chased to flee Europe, if nothing else, and it is absolutely crucial that we deal with the situation, that we take ourselves seriously. Often we talk about help in the neighbourhoods. Here we have a situation where there is a country that can fall into very, very bloody and brutal civil war if we do not act if we do not stop holding hands, as the European Union has unfortunately done, over the oppressive President Erdogan, but instead put action behind words. It is absolutely essential that we support the democratic forces in Turkey; that we oppose the idea that there should be a new despot in the Middle East; that we support initiatives that encourage peace; that we support our parliamentary colleagues in Turkey, who very, very soon will be involved in all the trials in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525142441	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Thursday 26 May 2016. Then I shall postpone the sitting until 8:00. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-DK_20160525145956	The sitting is resumed. I have to inform you that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen under nr. 9 and 14 questions put to the Minister for Justice (Question No. S 1152 and S 1153) are deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. That is why we are now moving on to Question No. S 1169, and that is for the Minister of Finance, and the questioner is Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525150030	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525150033	The question is: Can the Minister guarantee that all the money from the re-priority contribution will be returned to the municipalities in 2017?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525150042	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525150044	Yes, either through an economic agreement with the municipalities or through a financial agreement or through a combination of the two.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525150054	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525150056	The reason why I am asking is, of course, that on 13 May we had a question debate here in the Danish Parliament, where the government, together with the Danish People's Party, submitted a proposal for adoption that the re-priority contribution for 2017 should be transferred back to the municipalities, either in connection with the municipal agreements or in connection with the Finance Act. After all, this is a proposal which does not mean that the re-priority contribution will be scrapped. That's what the Finance Minister's party colleague is, sir. Martin Damm, Chairman of KL and Mayor of the Left in Kalundborg, calls the evil solution. The good solution calls Mr. Martin Damm that the re-priority contribution will be completely scrapped. So the evil solution he calls it is that the re-priority contribution remains, but that the money is returned. And the cruel solution he calls the solution that the Minister of Finance has most warmly advocated, namely that the money is taken from the municipalities and used for priority interventions, including tax cuts. What was then put forward as a proposal for adoption on 13 May here in the Parliamentary Chamber from the government and DF, which was that money from the re-prioritisation contribution should be transferred back in 2017, did not achieve a majority. It was, in fact, a proposal that was voted down because the Minister for Finance did not have the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party on board. What I really see is that there is agreement to take the money from the municipalities, but there is absolutely no agreement in the blue block that they are being taken back. I would therefore like the Minister for Finance to elaborate on why the Minister for Finance can stand in the Chamber and say that the money will be returned to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525150234	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525150235	Because it's government policy. We will bring them back in 2017, and this will either happen, by agreeing in an economic agreement some priority efforts with the municipalities or through a financial law agreement, where we agree to lead them back to some priority efforts. But you can also imagine, and this is perhaps the most obvious thing, that something is being traced back through the municipal agreement and something is being traced back through the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525150307	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525150309	Is it to be understood that the Minister of Finance has the support of the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives for what the Minister of Finance is saying here? Is this something on which the Minister for Finance has agreed with all the parties in the blue bloc?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525150322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525150323	No, because we haven't made an economic agreement yet. After all, I can only take a position on this when we see what the outcome of the economic agreement is... then I can see what is to be traced back through the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525150336	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525150338	Then I must also conclude that it is highly unclear what will happen with the re-prioritisation contribution. There is a minority in the Folketing, which consists of the Danish People's Party and the government, who says that the minority will bring the money back from 2017, but there is no support for it from a majority in the Folketing, which is not backing it from the blue block here in the Folketing. My conclusion is that it is highly uncertain what is happening with the re-priority contribution and that it may well end up with the money that the Minister of Finance says the Minister of Finance will lead back to the municipalities in 2017, may well end up with tax cuts anyway, for example. if the Liberal Alliance is to be granted concessions in the context of financial law negotiations for 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525150418	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525150420	There's nothing uncertain about this. The money for 2017 will be returned to the municipalities either through the Finance Act or through a municipality agreement or through a combination of the two things. And it would surprise me a lot if Mr. Rune Lund would not vote for the money being returned to the municipalities. It's like in the air that Mr. Rune Lund and the other left would vote against the return of the money to the municipalities. I'm just having a hard time imagining that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525150447	Thank you. We move on to Question 2 which is also addressed to the Minister for Finance, and the questioner is also Mr Beazley. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525150453	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525150455	The question is: will the government, in negotiations with KL, work to ensure that the municipalities have real growth in the spending framework, which means that the municipalities are not forced to cut welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525150509	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525150511	I would like to start by outlining the economic situation we are facing, because the public economy is strongly challenged. Asylum influx puts considerable pressure on public finances. From 2016 alone, it has been budgeted at 10.9 billion. kr. to the area of asylum and integration. Declining oil prices give the state less revenue from oil and gas extraction in the North Sea than expected. That is why we have now had to reduce the economic scope for the next four years to 10 billion. kr. The economic space provides a very narrow framework for the whole of the public economy, including the municipalities. And let me also remind you that in 2016 1.9 billion were returned. kr. of the re-prioritisation contribution to the municipalities for priority actions in the bourgeois service areas. In addition, the financial agreement was lifted by 1 billion. kr. to a dignified care for the elderly. So, overall, the services of the municipalities were raised by 500 million. kr. From 2015 to 2016. Thus, the municipalities have more money for service in 2016, than they had in 2015. We are currently engaged in negotiations on the municipalities' economy for 2017, and of course we do not know how it ends, but it has already been decided to return the 2017 priority contribution to the municipalities. In addition, the municipalities have good opportunities to streamline, which is why I totally disagree with the premise that a lower spending framework automatically leads to cuts in nuclear welfare. Because more efficiency can be achieved in the municipalities without harming the core welfare, for example. through better coordination of procurement and digitalisation. I fully recognise that the municipalities are in the process of improving efficiency. The municipalities themselves also report that since 2007 they have gradually increased the efficiency of their work, so that in many municipalities the efficiency of their work is increased by 2%. of expenditure per year. The municipalities themselves have previously indicated that since 2011 they have increased the efficiency of between 2.4 billion. kr. and 3 billion. kr. a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525150731	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525150734	I would like to start by saying, in relation to what the Minister said in the previous question, that, of course, on the part of the Enhedslisten, we will vote against all the appropriations we can to prevent cuts in the municipalities, but we will not just prevent cuts. For our goal is, in this way, neither negative growth nor zero growth, but we would like to see real growth that enhances welfare. And I understand that today at Marienborg, the government is setting up such a burning platform to tell how terrible things are going, so that even more cuts in welfare can be planned and even more cuts made in relation to the unemployed and the sick and the disabled, in other words the policy we have seen the government pursue in recent years. This also applies a little when we talk about the economy of the municipalities, and that is the reason for the issue here. One thing is that the re-prioritisation contribution can be recovered 100%, but then we have other things that are also at stake in relation to an overall economic agreement, and that is for example. the costs incurred by the municipalities for the reception of refugees. If the municipalities are not fully compensated for this, the money must be taken from other parts of the municipalities' budget and this will mean a deterioration in the level of service. We have the demographic challenge, that is to say, that there will be an increasing number of elderly people. If the municipalities are not compensated for this, it will also lead to a deterioration in the level of service. And then we also have the Minister for Finance's announcement in relation to the funding grant of 3.5 billion. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Because we have talked a great deal about a re-priority contribution of 2.4 billion. kr., and now the Minister of Finance announces up to the likely conclusion of the negotiations here at the beginning of June that he intends to rush 3.5 billion. kr., if it is up to him, and you can see that the municipalities and the finance minister are very far apart. So can the Minister of Finance not confirm that an agreement involving the billions of savings that the Minister of Finance would like to see will inevitably lead to a deterioration of services in the municipalities? That is also what the Minister for Finance's party colleague, Mr. Martin Damm, says when he, for example. speaks to the press.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525150943	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525150945	The speech we are hearing here from Mr Seligman. Rune Lund is very telling. We have added 500 million to the municipalities. kr. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 So they have had more money available than they had before, and then it is a pity to hear about cuts. And then various other questions are raised. But I'm gonna stay with you, sir. Rune Lund therefore voted against the addition of 500 million to the municipalities. kr. in 2016, and that is a strange policy to pursue. We are complaining about something which is notoriously wrong, namely that the municipalities have been cut down, because more resources have been added, and despite that, Mr President. Rune Lund voted against. There is, of course, something that is not connected with that argument on the basis of ordinary householders' logic. As regards the liquidity grant, it can be said that the municipalities currently have a liquidity of 38 billion. kr., they're in the box. I think it is equally strong enough that we should then pay a liquidity grant on top of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525151058	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525151059	The liquidity subsidy is what we others call the financial contribution. It is true that the municipalities in their budgets have 500 million. kr. more in 2016, than they had in 2015. I recognize that. Now we have to see what happens when the financial year ends. Then we'll see if it ends there too. My question, on the other hand, does not seem to me to have been answered by the Minister of Finance, and my comments on cuts also relate to the general policy of the government, as we see it done to the unemployed, for example. However, the Minister for Finance did not actually answer the question of the cuts that the Minister of Finance would like to make, for example. by removing the financial contribution. If that happens, will it not result in service degradation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525151148	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525151149	That is exactly what I made a great deal of my answer. If, for example, you're gonna have to... If we make better use of the money by digitising, then welfare will not be affected. Then the administrative procedures that have been carried out will suffer. If you can save 500 million in the road administration sector. kr., it doesn't hurt anyone either. Then you just make better use of taxpayers' money. If the municipalities are able to make joint purchases, there are billions to save. The 17 agreements made alone have released 1 billion. kr. from the municipalities. So of course you can spend the money better in the municipalities without having to reduce the benefits, and that is what I always have a discussion with Enhedslisten about. For Enhedslisten it is based on the fact that today we have a super ideal state and that it cannot be changed at all because any change will be a deterioration. And that's just where there's an abyss between the way we politically work, because you're working against all changes. Even if you could get more out of the money and even if you could increase the service for the elderly by saving on the administration, you are just opposed to it. definition. And that's totally illogical.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525151307	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525151308	I note that the Minister for Finance's party colleague, Mr. Martin Damm, more agree with Enhedslisten than he is with the Minister of Finance. However, I would like to ask one last question, and this is about the financial contribution. I would like the Minister to confirm that abolishing the funding will mean that weaker municipalities will be hit extra hard. In this connection, I would like to ask the Minister whether the abolition of the financial contribution announced by the Minister is the policy of the government, such as the Minister for Foreign Affairs. has taken an oath on the Danish People's Party. Because when you look at the proposal for adoption from 13 May, it is precisely about the fact that some of the weaker municipalities need to be better placed. But it is precisely the opposite that will happen if the funding is abolished. So can the Minister confirm that the abolition of the financial contribution will mean that disadvantaged municipalities will be hit extra hard, and does the Minister have the support of the Danish People's Party for that proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525151405	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525151407	It's touching with sir. Rune Lund's interest in my relationship with the Danish People's Party. I am, of course, grateful for the fact that Mr. Rune Lund is sleepless at night, worried about what that relationship is like. But I can just say it's a really, really good relationship. What I think is wrong with the liquidity subsidy, as I call it, is that it is paid to all municipalities according to the general distribution key. In other words, we are also providing a liquidity grant to all the municipalities that have bumpy cash boxes. Then it may well be that some municipalities are having a harder time, but let's talk about these municipalities. However, it does not make sense for us to pay out a liquidity grant to all the municipalities that have a bunch of money boxes, for example. City of Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525151456	I thank the Minister for Finance and Mr. Rune Lund. And we move on to Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party This is a question for the Minister for Transport and Building, and Mr. Rasmus Prehn of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525151509	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525151511	Thank you very much. Does the Minister believe that action is necessary in the future to prevent incidents such as those described in the Nordjyske Stiftstidende on May 12, 2016, when a child was locked in an elevator at Skørping Station for 4 hours without help?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525151529	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525151530	Thank you for the question. The short answer is yes. It is quite unsatisfactory and very regrettable that a passenger is caught in an elevator for 4 hours before being helped out. Banedanmark has stated that, according to the service agreement with the subcontractor, a technician must be present within one hour at call, and I think this can of course be an acceptable objective, so the effort that is needed is an examination of why the agreement has not been complied with. Banedanmark has already initiated such a study, as the subcontractor has failed to comply with its obligations in relation to the service agreement, and it is clear that I would like to forward the result of it if the questioner so wishes. But I would also like to say on this occasion that we are now looking at that study, and I will not say today whether or not I believe that we should make further efforts or what should happen. But it is quite clear that it is totally unacceptable, and it does not belong in any way, not at all when one considers how long it took and that they have also been in contact during that time. So I fully share the opinion of the questioner. That is deeply regrettable.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525151643	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525151644	I am very pleased with the very clear statement that has been made by the Minister for Transport here today in Parliament. Because it is a totally unacceptable situation that has arisen. The thing is that Agnes, 12 years old, is going on the train and must bring the bike; she chooses to take an elevator, and it gets stuck, and then she gets to stand in there for 4 hours before help comes. The help that comes is not even Banedanmark's people, but volunteers who have their own tools opened up so that she can get out 4 hours later. What Banedanmark explains is that there has been a lack of communication. They have chosen to delegate the task to a private company, and then something has been lost in that communication. And I am extremely pleased that the Minister in this Chamber is saying that we must have a different clear and clear procedure. When I choose to raise this issue in the Assembly, it is not because I want to make it a political issue where the Minister and I have to stand and shoot at each other, because we are in complete agreement on this, I am convinced. But what we have to work towards, if I can suggest something, is that with Banedanmark, you get a security procedure in this context, where you check, double-check, check up on these things again, so these communication flaws aren't allowed to happen. We've had an episode in the past I think it's been six months since we had an episode where an older couple in West Zealand were exposed to some of the same things, and they had even done this several times. So this is a recurring problem for Banedanmark. And I would urge the Minister, in cooperation with us Socialists, to ensure that we get our hands on Banedanmark, that there should be a written procedure for how to behave when these things happen. After all, it seems quite unreasonable when there have been incidents before that a much more clearly described procedure for how to deal with this has not been put in place. The fact that so many calls can be made is not fair. The mother says in the article that she has called several times and was told that you were on your way. After all, it screams to heaven to the best of my knowledge, and that is where we must jointly set up a new and clear procedure for this, so that people do not have to be in this situation. It's scaring people away from public transport when things like that happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525151912	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525151913	Yes, and I would like to say to the questioner: yes, we must look at the procedure. When I'm a little overwhelmed about it, it's because I've kind of asked to be informed about what kind of communication there has been. And when I read it through, I can see that at 9:00. 16.26 is the first time that you get a call from what is called the Jyske Kontrolcentralen (Jyske Kontrolcentralen) there's a security call coming from Skørping Station. However, B A Elevator's installer is sent to another task, and then they are contacted by Falck. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. 4:57 p.m. 17.43 you can follow what has happened. What I am worried about, and I am sure that I am doing that with the questioner, is that you have a procedure, but what I think it is all about and that is probably also in what the questioner thinks, if I know the questioner right is when you say that it is now so long that something else has taken place. I mean, I really agree with the questioner on that, but, unfortunately, since I can see that there has been a process here with telephone calls, what we need to say is perhaps: well then you have to write in another thing, namely that when it has been so and so long, they are opened one way or the other. Well, then we can't sit around and wait for this anymore. I think we're gonna get there, but like I said, I don't know until I see it. But I can certainly see from the calls that have been made that there has been constant contact throughout the process. And that is why we have to deal with it in a different way, as it seems that we have a procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525152041	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525152042	It seems quite incredible that it should be so complicated to solve such a task, but that is sometimes the case in a very complex society where there are many telephones and one with the other. I am sure that the employees who have been involved here have tried to do their utmost, but then things have gone wrong anyway. We must then ensure that there is a possibility that you can contact another elevator installer or an ordinary craftsman in the city or anyone who can get the door open. There must be a clear procedure: when a maximum of 20 minutes or 1⁄2 hours have elapsed, action is taken and opened so that people do not have to stand in there. It's a traumatizing experience for a 12-year-old girl to stand there for 4 hours in high sunshine, so it's incredibly hot. But it could also be a sick man or a woman who can feel ill. This is awful. So I am very, very pleased that the Minister is stating that something must be done and that Banedanmark must have a clear procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525152144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525152145	I know the questioner cares, and so do I. As far as the honourable Member's information is concerned, what I have been told is that the first call will be at 9 a.m. 4:26 p.m., and it says here that at 4:00 p.m. 20.18 doors will be opened. It is simply because they say that we have now come to the point where it is evident that it cannot be demonstrated that someone is going to do so. They're gonna be broken up at 2:00 a.m. 20:18. It is clear that we cannot have the time from 16.26 to 20.18, almost 4 hours, without anything happening. I fully agree with that. The process must be different.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525152221	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525152223	I think I have achieved what I wanted to do by asking this question, namely to get the Minister in the Chamber to confirm that there is a completely different procedure and that we have to go down to a completely different waiting period, something like 20 minutes or 1⁄2 hours. Then action must be taken. And the course that has taken Agnes to stand four hours in an elevator is totally unacceptable. Now it has been said, so there is nothing to be in doubt about. Now we're counting on Banedanmark to understand that this isn't gonna work out again. We have seen more incidents with it and we will not put up with it in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525152254	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525152255	I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525152300	We move on to question 4 in the same position, namely the Minister for Transport and Building and ask Mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525152306	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525152308	Thank you, President. And I have to read out: Does the Minister think that it is a problem that DSB loses customers over Storebælt?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525152315	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525152322	Thank you for the question. First of all, of course, I would like to say formally that it is not for me to assess whether it is a problem or not that people crossing Storebælt are driving by train, car, bus or whatever they choose to drive. It's their choice, of course. And there the individual will assess whether there are alternatives to the train that better respond to his or her transport needs and, of course, we should also be happy if there are alternatives. Having said that, however, I would also like to say that I have, of course, noted that DSB has recently lost passengers over Storebælt. There may be several reasons why passengers travelling across Storebælt choose modes of transport other than DSB's trains. Passengers may opt out of DSB because the remote buses crossing Storebælt offer passengers an affordable alternative to the trains. And if there are passengers who have opted out of DSB on this basis, and I can well imagine that, I think we should of course welcome the fact that there are good alternatives that passengers can choose, but of course also that DSB, as they also informed us yesterday at the meeting we had with them, intends to pay attention to this and go in and make some competitive offers. But then there may also be passengers who opt out of DSB, because the trackwork carried out by Banedanmark on West Funen last year and on East Funen this year, at the latest in Pentecost, has not been planned and carried out with the luckiest hand by Banedanmark, one can say calmly. And if that is the background to the opt-out of DSB, I think it is a problem and I think that is what the questioner is asking. Trackwork cannot be avoided, but it must be planned and implemented in such a way that train passengers experience the least possible disadvantages. In this regard, I would like to point out that on Thursday, 26 May 2016, I asked Banedanmark to explain to me and the transport rapporteurs why the track workers on Funen have gone as wrong as we have seen. And at that meeting tomorrow Banedanmark will also be asked to explain what will be done so that something similar does not happen again. There may also be passengers who opt out of DSB on the basis of the many delays and cancellations that we are unfortunately also experiencing at the moment, and which are not due to trackwork, but to errors in train sets and locomotives, lack of staff and the like. These are matters that DSB can and must do something about to get them under control. I have also said this very clearly to DSB. I would also like to mention that the questioner is aware of the fact that DSB is running on a so-called net contract. This means that DSB receives the ticket revenue and thus DSB has an interest in passengers not opting out of the train because DSB will then have fewer ticket revenues. Against this background, DSB has good incentives to keep passengers on its trains.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525152608	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525152609	Thank you very much to the Minister for this answer. I fully agree with the Minister that we should not, as a starting point, judge whether people choose one mode of transport or another mode of transport. We Social Democrats also think it is good that there is an option, so if you want to take your car, you can choose it; if you want to take a bus, you can choose it; and if you want to take the train, you can also choose it. But now that we have invested together in a railway tunnel and we also have the desire to combat congestion and ensure the best possible environment and climate, that there are sensible railways, we must also have an interest in more people choosing the train and not choosing it from it. It is shameful to read in Jyllands-Posten on 14 May that in the period from 2012 to 2015, 491,000 passengers have been lost on the journeys between East and West Denmark. It's a game that's gotten smaller anyway. There may be many reasons for this. One reason may be that there are skilled and entrepreneurial bus companies running a good offer. I also think that there should be consideration of whether they are always running according to the rules or whether there are some things. It has been questioned whether some of the companies pay the VAT they have to pay. It needs to be investigated. But, of course, it is good that there are skilled and entrepreneurial bus companies. We have Abildskou, who just got the price from Passenger Pulse to drive to the customers' great satisfaction. It may also be that people have been able to afford to buy a car and choose it instead. However, it is interesting for us to discuss what we can do to make it more attractive to take the train as a passenger. It has not exactly become more attractive for the last time, when there is now no service in the trains anymore and where you risk having to wait because of trackwork and other things. I would like to hear what the Minister has of very concrete offers to passengers, which will enable us to get more people on the trains forward. Does the Minister have any ideas that way around?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525152814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525152815	The fact that we have had track work, I think we should wait until tomorrow, because I also think Banedanmark's director has a right to come and tell us about it first. I think we understand that, too. And without me having to start something here because I also think it is true that we share responsibility. I just want to say that just the figures, Mr. Rasmus Prehn went forward, was from 2012 to 2015. I have to say that I have certainly not had the pleasure of sitting in the chair and being Minister for Transport there. Nevertheless, I think we have to say to each other that there are probably no easy solutions, because then those who have sat there before me would also have gone in and said that well what do we do? Because it is quite true that we have seen some dramatic figures in losses from 2012 to 2015. I believe that what we are going to look at, which was also one of the discussions we had with DSB yesterday, is that they need to be even better at competition. They use orange tickets a lot, and I think they have to be stronger on the basis that when you can drive very cheaply from those main destinations, Aarhus-Copenhagen, Odense-Copenhagen, Aalborg-Copenhagen at e.g. Well, we're gonna have to be even tougher in this area. I think that's what's gonna happen. Otherwise, I agree that the debate that is taking place right now on the Train Fund DK will also influence the possibilities for us to have more trains.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525152939	I would remind the two gentlemen that we are leaving in half minutes at the moment. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525152944	Thank you very much to the President-in-Office of the Council for his hard work and also to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his reply. It is true that DSB does many things to make it attractive as well. There is the orange ticket where you can get over at cheap and sharp prices. There is also now a new family ticket where an entire family can drive on Saturdays, which is also an incredibly attractive product. However, where it may be pushing a little, it is in everyday life, where lone students or pensioners who do not have their own car want to get to and from Vestdanmark and Copenhagen quickly, and then suddenly there is a sharp ticket on the bus, and then it is expensive at DSB. Will the Minister look at these bus companies, i.e. whether it is everywhere that the rules are respected? Because it has been suggested in the debate that perhaps there could be something with one of these bus companies that does not quite comply with the rules applicable to paying the VAT to be paid. Is that something the Minister is aware of? Because it is not fair competition if some people do not pay what they have to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153044	I fully share the point of view of the questioner, because of course I have also insisted that we should follow the rules. One thing is that the best provider must win, but that must be done on equal terms and, at least, with compliance with the rules. So, yes, we will certainly do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153104	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153107	If there is a company that operates a bus without paying the VAT, the Minister will also ensure that it is put in order. I would like to ask that as one. The second is whether the Minister sees for himself that we can further do something in DSB's contract to make it more customer-oriented, so that they have an even greater incentive to attract more passengers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153132	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153133	The last thing we will have is an opportunity to open up with DSB, in other words to discuss with them whether there are some things we can do. In any case, I think that they themselves, too, said yesterday afternoon that they are a little nervous about the road map they have, because it looks just tight enough. It is clear that if passengers experience a bad product, it can help to keep them away. So I think we're going to look at some things. About the bus wagon man and the fact that they have to abide by the rules, well, I'm gonna definitely go home and ask about that. And then we need to hear what those who control them say.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153207	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn. And the Minister will remain here for a while, namely for the next question, which is also addressed to him. That's what Mr. Kasper Roug of Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153220	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153221	Thank you. What is the Minister's position on Orehoved Residents' Association's concern about odour nuisances in the construction of the upcoming Storstrøm Bridge and the solutions outlined, cf. - consultation notes, from inter alia: Denmark's Conservation Association?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153239	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153239-2	Thank you for the question. I understand, of course, the concerns of the Orehoved Residents' Association, and the situation is also part of the overall reflection on the coasts of Falster in connection with the establishment of the new bridge. I would just like to say to the questioner that it was also discussed in the Green Conciliation Group when it came to deciding on the shape of the new bridge, and so there was agreement within the conciliation circle that this is a problem that the Road Directorate should continue to work on in the procurement process. I can then inform the questioner that it is in fact also written into the comments on the construction law for the new Storstrøm bridge that the green conciliation group, which, as you know, also includes the Socialists, will later decide in the project whether to fill up between the two dams, which could reduce any odour nuisances. It was also agreed that the possible solutions would await the so-called technical dialogue between the Road Directorate and the tenderers in connection with the tender. So it is when the supply comes that you want these negotiations. In the dialogue with the contractors, the Road Directorate will clarify the possibilities to proceed with the proposal to fill the existing dam with excavated seabed material, which the Danish Nature Conservation Association is positive about, and on this basis the Vejdirektoratet will draw up an additional approach with a detailed explanation of the possible solutions within the financial framework of the project. And then we come together to decide on it in the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153406	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153407	Thank you, Minister. I am, of course, glad that the process is still going away. After all, there is no doubt that for these residents who live there, there are some 450 people who now live in the local area, it is something that really affects them. And that is something that really worries them too, because they are extremely pleased that there will be large and good infrastructure projects that improve traffic conditions in the area. But of course they are also a little sad if it is to go beyond their scenic area. I just hope that we can agree that this issue needs to be resolved in one way or another. For there is no doubt that this is not the intention by as little means as it seems in the consultation note that it costs either to shorten the dam or to fill the area or to extend the bridge etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153508	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153509	I have no reason to believe that my predecessor has not thought the same thoughts when it was written into the conciliation text. That is why I would just like to say that it is in the text of the conciliation procedure, and I am entirely in agreement with it. Then I think that together we will have to deal with what we think of it. But it will be the conciliation circle that will decide, because that is how we have agreed with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153530	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153531	Well, that is why the Minister may well have an opinion on it; that is why the Minister may well have an opinion on whether or not a solution should be found. The Minister, like us, is also a politician and lives by having political views on specific matters. This is a very specific matter and, of course, I understand very well that the Minister should be able to face the conciliation circle, but I suppose the Minister still has a position on what needs to be done or how this problem should be resolved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153611-2	Now I do not want to delay the matter with the rapporteur, but simply say that this is a matter which I have inherited from the author's party colleague, the former minister. No, I just want to say that I don't think we should make this a big question. I am basically of the opinion that when a conciliation group has agreed something that I myself have not been a part of, I trust it completely. But I also have to say that it is wise to let the conciliation circle decide how they will do it. They could not do so then, as far as I have been told, because they simply did not have the information required. They have then asked the Road Directorate to convey them so that they can make a decision together, and I hope that I will come to that with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153651	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153652	Thank you for your answer. It is clear that I am glad to hear that the process is continuing, but I also have some doubts as to what to say to this housing association. I hope that we can get something concrete perhaps about a timetable so that we can deal with it if we are now residents of the area. Because it is clear that this is something that affects these people here. They would like to know what the timetable for this could be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153720	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153721	Well, I understand the questioner is asking about that. It may be that the questioner has experienced that I have done so myself. But now it is just the case that we have to wait for when we are going to implement either the Storstrøm Bridge project planfully or to move it forward and set it in motion before. We are addressing it, we have the negotiations on it at the moment, and when it is clear and the Road Directorate has been in touch with the tender, the conciliation circle will be convened. I am just basically of the opinion that it is wise to take the debate with those who are going to help you get it through, and that will only be the author's party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153756	I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Kasper Roug and thank you to the Minister for Transport and Building. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 6, and it's for the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. The question is asked by Mr. Christian Langballe from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153809	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153810	Does the government have a return strategy for refugees that we in the Danish People's Party are calling for, or is the truth that the government is not counting on the refugees who have come and will come ever to be sent home?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525153829	It is the government's clear view that foreigners who receive protection in Denmark should go home as soon as conditions in their home country make it possible. The government therefore also has the support of e.g. The Danish People's Party with asylum package II from January this year limited the duration of the temporary residence permit for the refugees coming to Denmark. This means, in concrete terms, that the immigration authorities now have to decide more often whether the individual refugee still needs protection in Denmark or whether the time has come for him to return to his country of origin. In addition, with asylum package II, the government has tightened the rules on the withdrawal of refugee residence permits due to holidays or other short stays in the country of origin. So if you take a holiday in the country in which you report being persecuted, you no longer need protection in Denmark. Having said that, I would like to say that it is important to be aware that many refugees will be living in Denmark for a long time, quite realistically, before the situation in their country of origin makes it possible to return home. It is therefore absolutely crucial that every refugee gives his/her own to Danish society and not just stays in this country on passive support. I certainly do not think this is in Denmark's interest, and I do not think it can be in the interests of the refugees either. I would also like to point out that we do have a repatriation scheme which must motivate recognised refugees to return home voluntarily. In addition, the government has a strong focus on ensuring that rejected asylum seekers and other illegal aliens in this country travel out as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154034	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154035	Thank you for your answer, I would like to say to the Minister. The specific reason why I ask is that when they come to Denmark, many say that what is meant is that they want a future here. If, for example, you're gonna have to... As a new applicant for asylum, looking to the Centre Sandholm for a pending application for asylum, you will be presented with a fairly long presentation video about the rights you have. I just do not think it is emphasised anywhere that the refugees who are granted asylum in Denmark are actually going home at some point. I think that is a little strange, given that being a fugitive is temporary accommodation to come back when there is peace in the country. That should be the premise itself. But if it is not the premise of the refugee coming, then something is wrong. Something is wrong if you do not tell the refugees who come here from day one that it is actually a temporary arrangement and that they will eventually have to return home.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154153	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154155	I do not disagree at all that it is, of course, a temporary arrangement when you are a refugee in the country. Nor do I disagree with the need to be informed about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154206	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154207	Then you could ask yourself why it hasn't happened. I would say that one of the most important things is to draw people's attention to the fact that they have refugee status, even if they are granted asylum, and that they therefore have to return home when there is peace in their country of origin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154229	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154232	I also believe that this is being provided with information. If you can say so, they will be even more so now, in that the residence permits are being given for less time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154243	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154244	If you take the discussion back from 1983 when we got this unfortunate refugee law, you see that it has actually been the case that many refugees per year. definition was made immigrants from day one. I think that has been deeply problematic all the time that when you're a fugitive, you come to seek protection, but when you can come back home, so to speak, you have to go home, of course. I just think something has slipped into that understanding of things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154318	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154321	I don't disagree with sir. Christian Langballe in that when you are a fugitive, you have to return home when there is peace in your homeland. That is why we have tightened up together with the Danish People's Party for how long you get your residence permit. Personally, I have never met a refugee who was not aware of the length of time the residence permit is in force. In fact, I know that, on the contrary, it is something that takes up a great deal for refugees, and that is one of them. That's why we've tightened up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154349	Thanks for the questions and answers. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 7, which is also for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, and that is also what Mr. Christian Langballe from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154358	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154359	What is the reason why the government has entered into a tripartite agreement where refugees are now to be sent into student jobs with a salary of up to DKK 49.50. per hour and after two years on this scheme can receive benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154417	After all, this is about a joint presentation by the DA and the LO, that is, by the social partners, which the government was presented to. Having said yes to that, of course, it is because I think that I do not think that comes as a surprise, even for Mr. Christian Langballe said that refugees and non-western immigrants' participation in the labour market is quite unacceptablely low. This leaves the Danish society with an unacceptable high bill, both in terms of the economy and also in terms of value. There is a high value bill when too few people get Denmark under their skin. That is why I think it is absolutely crucial that we get more people into the labour market. When specific questions are asked about the hourly rates in the Igu process, i.e. the positions of integration here, it is because the agreements that are already in place have been based on them. So it is a matter for the social partners, including the trade union movement itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154526	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154528	The reason I'm asking is because we have a question about repatriation strategy. I therefore find it fundamentally problematic that we have embarked on the path of government. After all, the Minister is aware that we strongly disagree with it on the part of our party. After all, we are for the one reason that the people who are coming are refugees. The aim now is to turn them into immigrants. This means sending them into an integration process that is about learning Danish, and sending them out into the municipalities and starting a lot of things, including this student salary that they get. What happens when these fugitives who were going to work have been out for these two years? What are you going to do when the benefit period arrives? I think it seems like in this case you jump from tue to tue because you don't really know what to do. I think it is strange that we should not aim to make them ready to return home if it was the case that we really took these people seriously, that these people are refugees. This means that one could then possibly teach them English or something, but not Danish. We should aim for them to actually return home instead of turning them into immigrants from day one.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154654	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154655	I often agree with the Danish People's Party on a lot of things. But right here, the water separates. They do, because I believe that when you are in Denmark, you must also support yourself to the extent that you can. I think there are too many refugees who are being supported by Danish society; that is, by Mr Kellett-Bowman. Christian Langballe and other Danes rather than supporting themselves. And, of course, if we demand that we support ourselves, we must also be fair and allow us to enter the labour market. This is the opportunity that we have negotiated with the social partners, in other words the employers on the one hand and the trade union movement on the other. As the social partners themselves have proposed this and also at the low rate, I think that is the right way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154740	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154741	As the Minister pointed out, we disagree there. We disagree for many reasons. I just think what you're doing is neckless deed. I simply disagree with the direction it has all taken. Then there are also conditions such as social dumping. What about the Danes who actually go unemployed? What are you going to do about it? To be honest, I believe that, as a society, we have first and foremost an obligation to the Danes who are here, also in terms of work. Why do you suddenly make all this fuss when you can't solve the problem of the unemployed already?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154828	I believe that it is basically crucial to support oneself when one is in Denmark, also as a refugee. I do not believe that it can be a value in itself for society to support through the tax ticket. It really surprises me that the Danish People's Party believes that society should support the refugees who come here if they are otherwise fresh and healthy and able to support themselves. It's actually kind of a weird approach. Having said that, I would like to say that the refugees who are coming to Denmark now will be able to take on some of the job functions currently occupied by the Eastern Europeans immediately, in that there are a large number of Eastern Europeans who do not speak a word of Danish either, and therefore they will immediately be able to find a foothold in the labour market there. It certainly does not take the work from the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154918	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525154919	We strongly disagree on something quite fundamental. After all, we want border controls. We want permanent border controls. We would like asylum treatment at the border. We would like these refugees not to cross national borders in order to get up here and help them in the vicinity. That is the premise itself. That is where we fundamentally disagree. This is a fundamental disagreement. The government has found the solution that once they've come here, you have to start all this. We could find a solution to this by simply limiting the number of those who come, by introducing border controls, by introducing the measures that need to be taken. That's what we're discussing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155003	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155003-2	No, that's not what we're discussing. That's not it, sir. Christian Langballe has asked questions about. Sir. Christian Langballe has asked questions about the participation of refugees in the labour market. I am just saying that I think that the Danish People's Party really has a strange approach in this area, namely that it is society that must support the refugees who come here, even if they are fresh, healthy and able to support themselves. I think it's basically healthy that when you come to Denmark, you have to support yourself if you can, and that's what's in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155032	Thank you to the questioner and the Minister for Questions and Answers. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 8, which is also for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. But this time the questioner is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155047	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155048	Thank you. On the basis of information mentioned on 14 May 2016, will the Minister immediately initiate a thorough investigation of the situation in the Næstved Asylum Center and then submit an action plan to the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs to ensure that similar abuses cannot take place in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155102	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155104	I can say at the outset that I was very surprised to read the information article on the conditions at the asylum centre at the Næstved Emergency Centre. I myself visited the asylum centre twice during the spring and have both had the impression that the asylum centre worked satisfactorily overall. However, it goes without saying that as soon as we became aware of the information article on the situation, Langeland Municipality, which is the accommodation operator at the asylum centre, was asked by the Foreigners' Board for a full account of the facts referred to in the article. I can inform you that on May 19th the Foreigners' Board received a general statement from the Municipality of Langeland this year. However, the Foreigners' Board has asked Langeland Municipality for a number of additional information, including, among other things: on what took precedence over the specific situation of retention, which is referred to in the article from Information itself. I would like to stress that I very much agree with both the questioner and the Foreign Affairs Agency that there should be a thorough investigation of the situation at the asylum centre at the Næstved Emergency Centre. However, I cannot, at this stage, explain the background to the circumstances described in the article, but of course the Foreigners' Board awaits Langeland Municipality's in-depth information and, on that basis, it will be decided whether further action should be taken in the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155239	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155240	Thank you for your answer. The first follow-up question is: Can the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs expect to receive the full explanation and the follow-up answer that comes from Langeland Municipality? The second question is: is the Minister prepared, following on from these statements, to enter into political discussions on how to strengthen the supervision of the Danish asylum centres?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155309-2	I think, of course, that the supervision is in order. It is as it should be. Well, this is based on a very specific situation. But I think we should wait for the statement that is coming. And in relation to whether the committee can get it sent, I would say unless there are some things classified in one way or another that the committee will be able to get it sent.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155340	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155341	Thank you very much. In any case, I would very much like the full statement to be sent to you, and then, if there is something that is secret, you must have the black sprit sch. The reason why I'm trying to follow up on this oversight is because I think that the stories we have from Næstved are fortunately isolated, according to what I've been told from Thisted and from other places, the Danish asylum centres actually work fairly impeccably and have a rather high level of level. But the stories from Næstved show that there have been some general shortcomings in the way we run the centres, among other things. that no criminal record is required when we employ managers in the Danish asylum centres; it is entirely up to the municipalities themselves. What I wonder, of course, is whether one could not imagine that we, on the state side, produced a minimum set of guidelines on how to run asylum centres, including how to recruit and what competences are to be given to those employed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155440	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155441	Everything can be considered, and we will of course do so once we have seen the statement itself. But, frankly, I think that, both in respect of those who are now involved in this matter, but also in respect of the nature of the matter, we must wait for the statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155514	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155515	Well then, I really have only one thing left to say, and that is that we will look forward to seeing the statement that comes from Langeland Municipality, which we expect the Foreigners' Agency or the Ministry to forward to us, and that we hope to be able to discuss jointly on this basis whether there is a need to follow up on the guidelines for which the municipalities run asylum centres. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155539	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155543	I can say that I also look forward to the statement as far as they say.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155548	Thank you, sir. Mattias Tesfaye, and thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European No. 1167) to the Minister for Justice, and the questioner is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155604	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155605	Thank you, sir. President. Does the Minister consider it reasonable and consistent with his own view of law and order that the host house owners and guests should experience threats, harassment and attempts to collect protection money, and what does the Minister intend to do to prevent this from happening again in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155623	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155624	Last week I answered a similar question here in the Danish Parliament, and I will therefore naturally repeat the answer I gave there, because I still think the same thing. Under no circumstances should we tolerate the threat, harassment and blackmail of bar owners and their guests. The authorities must take a firm stand against such disrespectful conduct. The National Police have reported that the police are focusing on the area and that the local police at Nørrebro are making significant efforts to prevent cases of protection money. This is happening, among other things. through dialogue with businessmen and young people on the street. If needed, local police can launch intensively visible and security-building patrols in the relevant areas. And I can add that Denmark's Restaurants & Cafeer has informed me that, on the basis of notifications from the members of the organisation, it cannot at this stage be concluded that the problem is widespread. As I said last week, in relation to the specific cases of blackmail on Nørrebro, which have been mentioned in the press, I asked the Copenhagen Police for a detailed explanation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155726	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155727	Thank you. I would like to sign for the Minister's relatively brief answer. I am well aware that the issue follows on from previous questions and that there are other questions too, but it is of course because it is a challenge in which we in the Danish People's Party do not feel quite safe, in terms of whether we have taken the right initiatives to overcome it. The Minister himself, referring to the Danish Restaurants and Cafes Association, says that it is believed to be able to quote them as saying that the problem is not as extensive as it was before. That is possible, but in the descriptions we have received there are among others. a quote here from Denmark's Restaurants and Cafes, where they say that claims for protection money are known throughout most of the country. This is something that appears from time to time, and it is undoubtedly a growing trend in Copenhagen, says Jørgen Færdigshøfer. So it is not something that can be said that the problem is just small and isolated. It's not really. I also think that we should try to act not only on the basis of what an employer's organisation says and does, but also on the basis that we can see, if we look at it in historical terms, that it is a development that has been going on for a long time. We can go back to 2012, where there was also a big case at Nørrebro. At that time there were some cafes that were going through the same challenges that came out last week, with cafes and restaurants that are being demanded protection money by criminal gangs. We can also go back to October 2013, when Danmarks Radio covered the major problems that were in Odense's restaurant life, where an increasing number of entrepreneurs in the municipality felt blackmailed by larger amounts of money. At that time, the police also said that this is a method we need to take action against. Among other things, it is mentioned that it is Black Army from Odense suburb Vollsmose, which is one of the organizations that apparently practises an increased degree of blackmail. So is the Minister now quite sure that the concrete and necessary initiatives have been taken?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155946	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525155949	I mean, what I've been doing is asking the Copenhagen Police for a statement. That is why I will certainly not conclude until I have it. Anything else would be very strange to conclude before a statement has been made. But what I've done next to is of course to ask about those people and then you can think about employers' associations, what you want to do about them as part of their daily lives: what is the situation really like? What I was told was that, compared with Sweden and Germany, the problem is much smaller in Denmark. This does not mean that you should belittle it, but one of the reasons why you see it as less in Denmark is that the police are making a solid effort to combat it here. And I think it is gratifying to note that Danish policy is making an effort towards something which is, of course, unacceptable. But I look forward to having the statement from the Copenhagen Police Department, and I will, of course, be able to respond more precisely to both the Copenhagen Police's views on the problem and what is happening in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160052	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160054	Thank you. But maybe that's why the Minister of Justice himself stated on his Facebook not so terribly long ago that the police have the maximum focus on getting them I assume that it is the criminals and not those who own the restaurants. However, the Minister himself has raised the issue of how big the challenges are in Denmark compared to those countries with which we typically like to compare ourselves. You can look at some of the places where things go wrong, and that is one of them. in Sweden. That is also why it is important that we in Denmark act faster than we have done so far. There is a new report from the National Police up there which says that there are over 55 different cities where it is impossible for the police to maintain law and order.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160141	But it is also gratifying to note that, fortunately, we do not see such conditions in Denmark. What we see, unfortunately, are some who apparently have neither intellect nor yes, I do not actually want to use other terms. But they feed on something that is deeply despicable and that we must fight. So do we. But I would very much like that statement from the Copenhagen Police Office before I reply to it very precisely. What I can promise, and what I have been told so far, is that we are aware of the situation. Efforts are being made to deal with this, and I will come back when I have received that statement. I fully agree with the questioner that it is appropriate to travel here, which is why I am happy to stand up and reply. Because we need to have proper relationships in the homeland that we both value so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160231	The questioner for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160233	Now the minister himself says this about the authority task being easier to handle in Denmark than it is in Sweden. It may also have something to do with the fact that in Denmark, after all, we have a little more control over how many people can enter the country from the Middle East and North African countries etc. Immigration also poses a certain number of challenges, not least in terms of legal and social policy. But that does not change the fact that the scale may well be much greater than that expressed by the Minister. We also have areas in Denmark I hope the Minister is aware of this where it is very difficult for the authorities to enforce law and order. There are also areas in Denmark that have the same challenges. So it is also widespread that it is a taboo for many of the company owners to tell about these challenges to the authorities. So the taboo stuff has to come out, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160321	All the more important, then, are the reports of the organisations concerned and the representatives of the companies concerned, because they are not under any threat. But I'm not trying to relate that message. Because the message from the organization in question is not that nothing is happening. The message is that the problem is not as big as it is in other countries. That is why, of course, I welcome two things. One is the foreign policy line that the questioner's party and my party have been united on since 2001 and which, of course, has made it clear that we are not in a situation such as that in which we could have been at risk if other parties had been in power. The second is that together we have reached a settlement, an agreement, on the future working conditions of the police, which adds 2 billion to the Danish police. and who will ensure that Danish police are stronger than in the time the questioner and I have immediately been able to remember and exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160415	Thank you to the questioner. That was the end of the question. Question 11 is also addressed to the Minister for Justice, and that is what Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160428	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160431	Thank you. What does the Minister intend to do to normalise the conditions described in the daily press about young people harassing, threatening and demanding protection money from various pubs?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160442	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160444	As I have just said in my reply to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, we need to take tough action against criminal youths who are harassing, threatening and demanding protection money. As I have said, the National Police have indicated that the police are focused on the area and that the local police of the Copenhagen Police are making considerable efforts to prevent cases of protection money. This is happening, among other things. through dialogue with businessmen, who understand and understand what is going on, and also with young people on the street. In order to answer the question put by the questioner, I am still waiting for further details from the Copenhagen Police on the specific cases in Nørrebro, which have been mentioned in the press.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160526	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160528	I would like to thank the Minister for an answer which, of course, referred to the answers to the previous question. My question is, after all, a little more specific about what was envisaged for the future. I recognise, of course, that explanations must be awaited and that investigations must be carried out, but what I am aware of is that the issue of blackmail is not new. Well, I could quite quickly find examples right back from, I think it was 2011 and 2012, so the issue must be known to the police. That is why I have to challenge the Minister a little bit more specifically. I agree that we are awaiting explanations, but there must be an opportunity to lift a veil of whether a special unit should be set up, whether you want to go hard on physical work, whether you want to increase patrolling or what you actually imagined? There the Minister must be a little more specific.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160620	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160621	I do not want to be much more specific until I have the statement, because then I would be able to draw some conclusions without having the information I should have. However, my immediate impression, and I should like to explain this here in Parliament, is that the Danish police are actually making a solid effort in this area. These aren't the same places we need to hear about. Unfortunately, there is a crime picture, for example. parts of organized crime, be it bikers or other parts of the gang environment, constantly change character, and you get around things. There we have made a solid effort. There are currently 300 bikers and gang members in prison. It is an effort which the author's party and my party have been very, very much in agreement about should continue with the strength it has. And then I would like to say that, in general terms, it is my impression that the police are doing a solid job. However, in order to conclude whether more needs to be done, because the police themselves also have a resource challenge in terms of border controls and in terms of terrorism, I therefore need to get that statement from the police first.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160724	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160725	Thank you. Well, we're moving with small steps closer to something that looks like something. I fully agree with the Minister that the police are doing a good job. After all, the police are about the first to discover it when the crime profiles change character and set in where action is now to be taken. I am trying to see the matter a little bit from the restaurant environment, and I would like to see the Minister at least say something a little more concrete again so that the catering environment feels: Now we have heard, now we can count on something happening before that very long. Will the Minister be able to say something so firm?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160804	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160805	Well, there's the problem, I don't want to talk about it. Well, maybe it's already solved. Because the matter is that I have been informed immediately that police action is under way in relation to the problem we are agreed on is contrary to what our two parties represent. Efforts are under way, but I am waiting for that statement to know exactly how much it is. Then, of course, I have also been in dialogue with the industry, a dialogue which continues. Once I have had that statement, it is possible to go further, knowing that in a few years we will have the strongest police we have had in Denmark in this questioner's lifetime, as far as I remember.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160856	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160857	I don't have anything else, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160904	Does the Minister have anything for rounding? No, it's fine). I'd like to thank you for that. That was the end of Question 11. We are going to Question 12, which is also for the Minister of Justice, and this time the questioner is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160914	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160916	Thank you. What exactly does the Minister mean by the fact that the thongers are waiting, as described on the Minister's facebook page on 11 May 2016, in response to the apparent harassment and vandalism of several young people and demanding protection money from several pubs on Nørrebro?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160933	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525160936	At one point I had a similar comment when I said that there is enough room in the prisons that was on another occasion. This is quite simply because my approach to crime is that there are laws and rules in this country, and they must be respected, and if you cannot find out, it must have a cash consequence. There is an immediate continuation of what we saw there, the simplest way of expressing it, and my clear expectation is that the actions in question will meet with consistency. That is what the very short and square quote is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525161009	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525161010	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think it is very good to hear that the Minister is so willing to beat down on these punks and idiots.I do not know if you can use those expressions in the Assembly Hall that make life a slave to ordinary people who have a business and who want to live a peaceful and calm life under the rules that may apply to everyone, and therefore, of course, these types must be severely reduced. There, of course, I am interested in what the Minister will do to ensure that there is a hard hit. After all, from time to time we hear stories where some cops can tell things and things in the media, where people stand up and tell about insecurity, about unrest in some parts of the country, and we just have to look over the Sound to know how bad things can go if you do not intervene in time. That is why I am also, of course, and I think we are all very concerned in the Danish People's Party about what initiatives we are taking too quickly, too quickly to strike down and clearly to indicate that there is a limit here, and here are some things that we do not compromise with. So, of course, I would like to hear what the Minister is going to do about this particular case, and I would also like to ask if there are any of these fools who have the power of the bars since 11 May.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525161129	Before I give the floor to the Minister, I would like to appeal to the President-in-Office of the Council to mention them with dignity, regardless of what you wish to punish them politically. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525161141	Without in any way pleading with the President, because I agree with the basic message of the President, what should we call it, recommendation? Is that right? The provisions of the criminal code, and without revealing too much, I can say that, within that kind of term in relation to people who commit this kind of criminal behaviour, it is probably possible to put it differently, but it is not the case that we do not share a certain basic view there. May I add that, in relation to what has actually happened, I must wait for the statement by the police in this regard, but I look forward very much to discussing, among other things, if we are to look a little forward in this context. With the questioner's whole approach to juvenile delinquents, both in terms of cash, but also in terms of the effort that reaches a firm hand to what must be described as people who have had a background, which I believe neither the questioner nor I can really imagine, and where it is really about getting their hands on people at the right time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525161255	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525161256	I agree with what the Minister is saying, but if you look at the Øresund, you can see some problems that are incredibly deep, and these are problems which must not, under any circumstances, arise here. We have the beginnings of signs around. We can see the symptoms in some major cities, in some areas of our country. That's very, very boring. There we are concerned about whether there are any rules that need to be looked at, whether there is anything that needs to be moved around, whether there is a need to go in and strengthen the police further in relation to being able to deal with this kind of problem, because what we saw, one can fear is a foretaste of more that we have in store, which we are not just going to sit around and watch passively. What is the Minister's view of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525161341	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525161345	I don't want to paint a beautiful painting because we have challenges in Denmark, but I think they are very different from what we see elsewhere. Denmark is basically a fantastic and also a peaceful country from the outset. What we see, for example. in the exposed residential areas, ghettos if you like, it's a temperament issue, what you would call it, is actually falling crime and increasing security, but there are places there is therefore also I look forward to getting that statement, so for example. The questioner and I can look together at whether it is needed in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525161423	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525161425	Then I would like to ask a few questions about this statement, on the one hand, whether we can expect it here before the summer break and, on the other hand, whether the Minister is going to call the parties behind the police settlement to talk about what we can do to shake up these people who clearly do not understand the rules of the game, whether there is anything we need to adjust there. Likewise, of course, I am also interested in how general a problem the Minister thinks this is. Is this something that relates only to parts of Nørrebro, or do we see here a picture that you see in many other places in the country? I mean, how often does the minister think this is happening?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525161504	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525161509	I can't really say anything square about that right now. Now we have to look again at what expression we use about the people concerned, but to conclude, because such personages are shouting something about Sharia, if it is beyond all the pubs on Nørrebro etc., I would not want to do so, because it would also be too much to attribute to those concerned. Now we have to have that statement and then we have to look at it. I have spoken to the trade association and they say that there is a challenge, but it is not as big as it appears in the press immediately. Of course, we have to conclude, and I can promise that when I get the statement, I will also assess whether it is appropriate to convene either the conciliation circle or possibly take a bilateral meeting with the questioner. In fact, they usually go quite well, and a cup of coffee can always be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525161559	Thank you to the questioner and the Minister. That was question 12. We will continue with question 13, which is also addressed to the Minister of Justice, and this has been asked by Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525161611	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525161613	Thank you. Does the Minister still believe that everything has been sufficiently clarified in relation to Denmark's handling of prisoners during the Iraq War, given that Information and Radio 24sev have been able to uncover new information about the handling of prisoners, the extradition of prisoners and the knowledge of torture during the last week?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525161634	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525161635	I assume that Mrs Eva Flyvholm is referring to whether the recent press coverage of the handling of detainees by Danish forces in Iraq gives the government the opportunity to change its decision to close down the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission. I can say it doesn't. Several of my ministerial colleagues and I have previously answered a number of parliamentary questions about the government's decision to do so. As I have said in the past, the government considers that the conditions surrounding the detention of individuals by Danish soldiers during Danish war participation in Iraq and Afghanistan have already been sufficiently clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525161706	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525161707	I simply think it is incredible that, as the Minister for Justice, it can be said that everything has been sufficiently clarified when we have a case where it has come to light, also very recently, that there has been a comprehensive knowledge of the torture of prisoners in Iraq, and that Denmark has nevertheless continued the extraditions, thus a clear violation of our international responsibilities, and we know that there are hundreds of these questions that we have asked over time, to which we have not actually received a proper answer. I can promise the Minister for Justice that we will, of course, now re-set all these questions, and then I look forward very much to getting an answer to that. But does the Minister for Justice seriously believe that nothing has been clarified about Denmark's handling of prisoners in Iraq? And when I ask so much about it, it is because it has just been decided not only to put an end to the Iraq Commission, but also to shut down the possibility of bringing these documents forward, and the Minister of Justice has himself put himself behind a commission of inquiry, which has to deal only with the historical aspects of this and which, therefore, will not go into the issue of the handling of prisoners, which, in my opinion, is the most problematic and which will not relate to the legal responsibility in this matter either. We therefore have some of the Minister's own current colleagues, for example. Mr. Søren Gade, who was Minister of Defence at the time, has probably not given the Danish Parliament the right answers. Does the Minister for Justice think that it is reasonable that we should not have any insight into this legal issue at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525161848	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525161849	The questioner is lucky that she is standing in the Parliamentary Chamber, and so she can say roughly what suits her, and also intriguing remarks about others, and I will not, in fact, be able to do anything about that; I cannot do anything about that. For my part, I can only say that it is absolutely right that a broad agreement has been reached today across the middle, where constructive parts of Danish politics, which do not want persecution and hetz, have made an agreement that we should examine more closely the basis of wars in which Danish forces have participated in recent times. That is what I can say, and it is the negotiation process for which the government has taken responsibility and where parties on both sides of the Folketing have chosen to take responsibility for these matters being properly placed before the Danish people.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525161938	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525161939	I just need to confirm something quite clearly: when the Minister for Justice says that there is no reason to raise the issue of the prisoner in this investigation, is it because the Minister for Justice can promise me that everything is sufficiently clarified in relation to the handling of prisoners in Iraq and Afghanistan and that there will be no more cases that indicate that there is something that the Danish Parliament has not been told or that Denmark has not complied with its international obligations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525162007	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525162010	It was a very long question with many implications. What I am saying is that the government considers the matter to be sufficiently clarified in precisely the context to which the questioner refers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525162019	The questioner for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525162020	I can only say that I have absolutely no understanding that one can think that this has been sufficiently clarified, but I can promise the Minister for Justice that we will be asking a lot of questions about this in the future, which will show that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525162038	Minister for rounding, if any. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525162040	I also see that some people in the world believe that it is UFOs that cause one and the other, and what Enhedslisten is asking for conspiracy theories and wrong answers, I honestly cannot relate to. What I can say to the best of my ability is that the government's approach is that the matter has been sufficiently clarified and that a broad agreement has now been reached across the middle of Danish politics, which will shed light on the Danish basis of war in recent times.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525162103	Thank you to the questioner and to the Minister. I see that Question 14 has been withdrawn from the agenda, which is why we are going to Question 15, which is addressed to the Minister for Justice by Hans Kristian Skibby, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525162135	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525162141	What we're not gonna get this week, we're just gonna make it next week, sir. Minister. Is the Minister satisfied that there are regular cases coming from many different places in the country where ordinary people and businesses experience harassment, vandalism, assaults and attempts to collect protection money from highly inappropriate young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525162201	The minister for reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525162204	Thank you for that, President. In March, in connection with a parliamentary question, the National Police Department asked the country's police community about their knowledge of matters relating to protection money. Seven circles have stated that over a period of 10 years they have acquired some knowledge of matters relating to protection money, while five circles have not, or only to a very limited extent, become aware of such cases. Denmark's Restaurants & Cafés have stated that, on the basis of notifications from their members, they cannot at present conclude that the problem is widespread. This does not mean, of course, that we should not take the matters that are, after all, very seriously. One case and that is the answer to the questioner's question... is one case too much. I am aware that not all cases of protection money necessarily come to the attention of the police, as there may be some reluctance, for fear of reprisals, to make a complaint to the police, and so, not least from this point of view, I would urge those who are subjected to blackmail or other crime to report their relationship to the police so that the police can stop the perpetrators and ensure that they are prosecuted. Because this is certainly a form of crime that we have to crack down on every time we meet it so that it is not allowed to spread.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525162316	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525162317	Yes, and that's what we're trying to do, sir. Minister. The Minister himself says that he is relying on the answer that has come from the National Police Commissioner about how widespread the scale of the problem is. But you can go back and follow, for example, Berlingske's news coverage back in August 2012 when questions were also asked about others. The Københavns Politiken states that the issue of protection money is really a much greater problem than the statistics show, because it is so taboo for many of these traders who fear for both their business, their own ability and of course also for not being able to preserve their businesses, such as the pubs and restaurants at Nørrebro, which at the time was the place where the problem was outlined to be most widespread. The reason why we in the Danish People's Party focus a lot on this is not just that it is a good case. Keep me well, it is then that it is a good thing to face up to problems and challenges in Denmark. But it's also because it's a place where we fear it's gonna get worse if we don't really grab hold of these things. Now this problem, which I have outlined, goes back to 2012, and what we can see is that it has certainly not become less problematic in 2016 than it was in 2012. That is why it is important, as the Minister himself said. That, for example, it's... in Sweden is much worse, then perhaps the good news of the day. It is much worse on the other side of the Sound, but it does not change the fact that we should not have these no-go zones, as it is said in Sweden, where 55 cities and areas of different cities have become places where there is more Sharia law than there is Swedish law. Therefore, it is important that we try not only to talk about this here in the Folketing, but that we also, of course, both resource and legal, etc. go in and look at the places where the bet is to be placed. And there I think the Minister should perhaps go a little more to the bite in terms of putting together some restrictions and some changes to the legislation, which means that we have far, far more chance of coming after these gangs who are trying to force other people's money through threats and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525162529	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525162531	But now I can't base my work on media stories. So, overall, crime has fallen in Denmark over the last at least 4-5 years. We can see this, both when we ask people in polls what they have personally experienced and when we find out which reports are to the police so that we can also cover the dark figure. That is why I have to say that when I assess what police action should be, I am of course basing it partly on what the experience is in the police circles and partly on a dialogue with the relevant trade association, where members of the karsk can tell what they are experiencing of problems. I have full respect for the way in which the Danish People's Party deals with this, but I do not think it is fair to suggest that I, as Minister of Justice, should be indifferent to this issue. I certainly am not, I can guarantee that. I'm just as busy as the Danish People's Party of ▪ if you're going to say it a bit popularly that the troublemakers are being hit hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525162624	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525162626	Thank you. I fully agree with the Minister on this point. I do not doubt the Minister's good intentions, and they are also well developed in the facebook updates which the Minister is world famous in Denmark for making. But that does not change the fact that the Minister, as the great measure that it is not so bad even, has used it to be much worse over the other side of the health. At least that is what the Minister has said in the past on this matter. Now we have had a debate in this Chamber about pepper spray in the past, as recently as yesterday. And I also know that there are people who think that pepper spray is not such a bad invention, especially if people use it wisely and if they use it to defend themselves. So I would like to ask the Minister: does the Minister really have sympathy for the fact that bar owners end up having to use this kind of preventive effect in their restaurants?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525162717	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525162722	Well, I hope we don't end up in a situation where vigilante will be necessary. Emergency guardians are one thing, vigilante is another, and I think there are so many situations in these days when people think they are entitled to settle themselves at the expense of the community. This is not really a development I want. I want us to have a competent police force that can take care of the interest we all have in having a proper and orderly society. That is why I am in favour of the current pragmatic approach we have to arms in the hands of citizens, for example. the law of knife which the questioner and I were together to implement and which has significantly tightened the penalties for criminals who were previously punished for joining, for example. knife.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525162812	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525162814	If you go back to March this year, there was a shopkeeper from Humlebæk who got a verdict and a fine of DKK 8,000. to be in possession of a wide range of small arms, but not guns. The reason he had them was that he felt threatened by gangs from Kokkedal. So it can be said that the person who had been threatened has received a judgment and a fine, and those who have received the money have probably spent it and enjoyed it. But that does not change the fact that if you use pepper spray, for example, it could be preventive when it was not necessary to use other more harmful weapons. For it is actually the case that, for example, a pepper spray has a certain effect briefly, and then it is over, whereas if it ends up with clubs and guns and everything else, as you practice in some places today to protect yourself and your family etc., then it is actually some weapons that can cause much, much more damage. I would therefore like the Minister to reflect on whether it would not actually be beneficial for safety if we were given the opportunity to use pepper spray instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525162927	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525162931	I would very much hate to go into a specific case but now the verdict has been handed down, so it may be the same. So any citizen, including the Minister of Justice, can relate to it. But I am not in the actual verdict whether it has been appealed or what. What I want to say about it in general terms is that if there are gang criminals who surround you, then I think it would be very, very unwise to try to use a pepper spray with them. That's where I think you have to think. I think we should base ourselves on the efforts of the police in this regard. We have a skilled police force in Denmark, which makes a great effort, and it is therefore not necessarily easy to be a gang criminal in Denmark. Over the past many years, there are record gang members who have gone to prison and are sitting there today, and I can guarantee the questioner that this is an effort that we are going to continue with determination. I am sure also counting on the Danish People's Party to help extend this effort further.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525163022	Thank you to the questioner. There are two more questions for the Minister of Justice. It is now Question 16, which has been asked by Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525163033	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525163035	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that the Minister's tweet in January 2016 with the wording Very. Very. Very, very true.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525163050	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525163053	My comment on Twitter at the beginning of January must be seen in the light of the situation at that time, where both the daily number of asylum seekers and the entry of refugees and migrants were significantly higher than it is today. At that time there was a well-founded risk that we would see an increase in the number of asylum seekers as a result of the fact that a larger proportion of the entry refugees and migrants would seek asylum already at the Danish border. It was not an assessment with which the government was alone. That is clear, among other things. of TV 2, which on 21 April wrote that experts already before the introduction of border controls predicted that border controls would lead to an increase in the number of asylum seekers. Since the beginning of the year we have seen a clearly decreasing trend in the number of refugees and migrants travelling through Europe and coming to the Danish border. At the same time, the situation is that almost all refugees and migrants crossing the Danish border today are seeking asylum. It is therefore still a complex and difficult situation we are in, but the development shows that the course we have followed in Denmark has been the right one.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525163154	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525163157	Thank you. My question is, of course, whether the Minister believes that the claim made in the tweet was correct. I probably miss a clear yes or no, especially on the basis that Denmark in 2015 received somewhere between 1,700 and 1,800 asylum seekers per year. month on average a punch on the bag. That figure fell to something that is between 600 and down to a two-digit number already in 2016, largely at the same second as border controls were introduced. Hand on your heart, sir. Minister: is it not the case that it was precisely border controls that caused the influx of asylum to collapse?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525163249	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525163251	At least that was not TV 2's conclusion, nor was it the experts they asked. I would just like to say that if the questioner wants a real deepening of the impact of border controls, then one has to ask the minister responsible for border controls, and that is Mrs Inger Løjberg. Stories will be written about the conditions surrounding September 6th and the period of time until where we stand today. What I welcome is that the government's policy in a very good cooperation with the Danish People's Party is gradually getting a manageable situation on the basis of a very, very difficult development, where the developments we have seen with the agreement with Turkey and the other conditions in Europe have all played together in a complicated pattern. But one does not make me say that the government's policy together with the Danish People's Party has been bad. On the contrary. I therefore conclude that we are in the process of getting a very difficult situation in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525163352	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525163354	I choose to hear it in such a way that the Minister recognises that border controls have had an effect. I can hardly interpret it differently. And if I have misunderstood, I have to refer again to the figures I quoted earlier, which clearly and without a shadow of doubt show that border controls had an effect. I recognise that border controls may not be directly the territory of the Minister for Justice, but I would nevertheless like to see an indication of whether the Minister envisages that we are working within a very short period of time towards a permanent, permanent border control in the light of the indisputable effect of border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525163433	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525163435	Listen to me: there is no reason to hide the fact that there was a lot of discussion about this, but the government ended up deciding on a border control, and I think it was a very good decision. That's what I like about all the government decisions. About the future: you have to negotiate on that. This isn't my area. I cannot stand here and give freer statements about where the government ends up with its negotiating parties in that situation. I think that's what I have to say about it. However, I should like to add, Mr President, that it is perhaps important at this time to remember that everyone is happy in his faith, especially in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525163512	The questioner on the last remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525163515	Well, I welcome this little quote. It can also be said that the successes tend to have many fathers, and I note that the Minister then does not acknowledge the paternity of exactly border controls. We can then hope that this will change in the future. I would still like it to be possible to get a clue whether it is not in that direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525163536	The minister to the last part.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525163538	[Sound emission]... and the government made the decision to introduce actual border controls. I am happy to accept a co-responsibility for that decision. The rest I think I must leave to the minister responsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525163555	Thank you to the questioner. Then we'll get to the last question to the Minister for Justice today. That's question 17. That's what Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525163607	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525163610	Does the Minister consider it reasonable that, 15 months after the terrorist attack in Copenhagen, the officers have still not received the vital equipment they should have, on the one hand, to ensure the safety of the officers themselves, and, on the other hand, to ensure that the population they are employed to look after in a potential attack, as described on the BT's website on 8 May 2016 under the heading: "Confidence with gloomy warning: We are NOT equipped for a terrorist attack"?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525163638	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525163640	There are few things that concern me more than the police being equipped to deal with terrorist attacks. When, as a community and as a country, we ask the police to protect us, we owe it to them and to ourselves that they have sufficient and proper equipment. In February last year the National Police announced, even before the evaluation of the authorities' efforts, that all officers who needed it in their duties should have a bulletproof vest as personal equipment. It was also said that a comprehensive analysis of police shooting training and security equipment will be carried out in the light of the terrorist attacks in Copenhagen. A working group was then set up to examine the adequacy of police security equipment, armament and ammunition. The working group was involved both by operational staff and managers. It came in September 2015 with its recommendations, and against this background the National Police are fully engaged in developing the equipment available to the police. The new equipment has been ordered as the exact requirements are calculated and as quickly as it has been possible for suppliers to produce it. Most of the equipment has now been delivered and distributed to the police districts, and the rest is delivered during this year. The money for the equipment was found at the police settlement in the autumn, as Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen has been a central part of. The agreement provides for 600 million. kr. Every year to ensure that Denmark has the strongest protection against terrorism so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525163806	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525163808	One of the things that had a very high priority for us in the negotiations that were about the police settlement was precisely that we had to strengthen the police to deal with potential terrorist attacks, so we simply had to make it harder to be a terrorist, and we had to make it safer to be a Dane and safer to be a cop. It was quite straight off the road, which is why we helped to allocate a great deal of money to it. That is why we were somewhat surprised when we read BT here earlier this month and were able to see the concern of the shop steward here in Copenhagen, precisely in relation to the protection of terrorism. I think it is very, very worrying to read the things that were said about it precisely in relation to personal equipment. I think it was bulletproof vests that was the big question. I want to hear from the Minister when we can expect the equipment that will be said this year. It is a year since we had a terrorist attack, six months ago, in round figures, that we made a police settlement. Time is running out here, and if there's something terrorists aren't waiting for, then it's that we're gonna finish preparing. You don't wait, you act, and that's why, of course, I'm interested in when all these elements can be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525163925	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525163928	The National Police have reported that at present around 3,000 protective vests have been purchased, upgraded police machine guns for penetration, purchased new ammunition for machine guns, purchased additional portable radios for police circles. With the exception of half the portable radios, the equipment is now delivered to the police districts. The remaining parts of the radios are expected to be delivered to the circuits by the end of this month, and the National Police have further stated that the following has been ordered: first aid equipment with bleeding control, which is expected to be delivered one of the next few days, new ammunition for service guns, which is expected to be delivered in July of this year, lights for service guns, which are expected to be delivered in the third quarter of this year, and ballistic helmets, which are expected to be delivered successively during the second half of 2016. So the combination of a thorough evaluation, in which we have then arrived at what kind of equipment was to be purchased and that everything could not just be delivered at once, has then given this situation, which fortunately will soon be clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525164031	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525164033	It is so little up to my next question, because it has come to my attention that some of these things actually require quite a lot of training, or at least a pretty big training effort and exercise, so that you can use these things. Does the Minister have any estimate as to when you expect to be able to take advantage of all these things, i.e. when all the policemen who are supposed to be using it at some point have been through some kind of training, so you know that if the situation should arise, it is all running?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525164101	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525164103	After all, it was a central part of the conciliation that we concluded that the training effort, the shooting training, had to be greatly increased and it had to be ensured that it took place. I also recall having answered a written question, and I even think it was from the questioner, about what training injury there was and how many had been through. I do not want to give a wrong answer here in the Chamber, so I will either come back in the form of a further written reply or refer to the answer I have sent. There is quite a lot, if not all, but I do not remember what has been going through the first rounds, and there is no doubt that this is a process that goes very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525164144	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525164145	I am pleased to hear that, because the written question to which the Minister refers was very narrowly defined precisely in relation to shooting training. This is a much more general question that I am trying to raise, and indeed also in relation to the use of first aid equipment, which is part of what requires some exercise. That is also one of the things I've heard around that there should have been cut to the leg on at least in some police circles. That is precisely why it is important that you not only look at one part but look at the many different parts of the whole. And that's where I'm curious to know when we're in a situation where all the cops who can be expected to use it at some point have been through the training and the exercise that is needed. So that is what my question was about, but I do not know whether the Minister might need to follow up on a written round instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525164230	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525164233	There is no doubt whatsoever that this is a priority, and it is an important part of the agreement that has been made between, among other things. Our two parties. But in order to avoid any misunderstanding, yes, I would like to return in writing. It has to be done properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525164248	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister for Justice. There are no more questions for this minister. The next question is Question 18, and it is to the Minister for Defence and has been raised by Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525164303	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525164308	Thank you. Does the Minister really believe that the F-35 fighter will be completed in 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525164318	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525164320	Thank you. F-35 is in its last part of the development phase, which is expected to be completed in 2018. Afterwards, the aircraft will be transferred to further development and continuous updating over the rest of the lifespan of the system, i.e. for the rest of the life of the aircraft. This will be a continuous strengthening of the operational capability of the aircraft, as is also known from the current F-16 aircraft. Therefore, the development of the combat aircraft is not stationary if it is to remain relevant. Therefore, it is also crucial that Denmark chooses a future-proof combat aircraft. I have no illusions about the fact that there have been and continue to be challenges for the Joint Strike Fighter programme. A central purpose of the development phase is precisely to identify and correct the challenges. Thus, we should not measure the success of a development programme by finding faults, but rather by correcting the errors and finding good solutions to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525164428	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525164430	Thank you. Perhaps this is really about me being a little uncertain about what the Secretary of Defense really means by finished. After all, for the Pentagon's own test office, the testing of the new software, which is what has to get the plane ready for battle, can actually run all the way into 2021. So I'm interested to hear what the Secretary of Defense really means by finished. Can we expect the aircraft at that time to be fully combatable and operational, i.e. in 2018? Is that what the Secretary of Defense means, or how do you understand this whole thing with the final development? That was one question. The second question concerns the fact that yesterday there was a new announcement from the Pentagon saying that the project has gone off schedule again, and that it is only possible to start this test phase in 2018, which needs to be completed before the fixed production of the aircraft can be started. And that's one of them. also the timeline on which the government has based many of its economic calculations, i.e. that the fighter plane had to become cheaper according to Lockheed Martin himself because it came into greater production. What is the Minister's view of the fact that there has now been a change in the timetable? And does the Minister expect that the economic framework that the government itself has set up for the project can be maintained?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525164606	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525164608	Well, the development of the JSF programme is currently subject to extensive control regimes from among others. the U.S. National Audit Office and independent control bodies of the U.S. Department of Defence. As a partner country, and it is Denmark, in the JSF programme it is also a control regime that is in our interest. And that means, of course, that the challenges come to light, that they are taken into account and that we are constantly working to address those challenges. The results of that control are reproduced in annual reports and hearings in the US Congress, and here we also take a position on how to resolve them. I was asked what I really mean by finished. Well, my expectation is that the development phase for F-35 will be completed in 2018. And so it is also, several years before Denmark is expected to receive our first aircraft, which is only in 2021, i.e. 3 years later.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525164716	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525164718	The Pentagon's own test program says that it is expected that it will be possible to carry out the final test of the software that will enable the aircraft to be in battle by 2021. So I would like to hear: is the Minister not a little concerned that we are currently acquiring an aircraft which we do not really know what will be able to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525164742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525164745	I am concerned that Denmark finds the best aircraft to replace our ageing F-16 aircraft, and I believe this is the JSF-F-35 combat aircraft, and what is expected of the combat aircraft programme is that it has completed the development phase in 2018, when the aircraft will be in a block 3F configuration, where full operational capacity is achieved with the aircraft. So when I'm asked what I mean by that, yeah, that's what I mean. However, I think it is just as important to reply, as I said at the beginning, that during the rest of the life of the aircraft there will be changes and updates to the F-35, and there have also been changes to the F-16. The F-16 plane we have today is a completely different F-16 plane than the one we bought at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525164844	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525164846	Well, I'd like to sign the Minister for that statement. I think it is a very brave statement when you say that you expect the F-35 to have a full operational capacity in 2018, but we have to see if it will hold water. If these timetables continue to slip away so that we do not get up to the same production volume as Lockheed Martin himself expects, and the plane will be more expensive than what the government has provided for in this economy, how will the government take that into account? Do you have to buy fewer planes, or what have you been thinking?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525164922	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525164925	The prices on which the government is based are the prices that the three candidates have entered in the evaluation process, and Denmark will be in a situation where you want to know what prices you buy the first aircraft at, and all the time that we have to have the first plane delivered in 2021, well, there is a great likelihood that you will have certainty about the price, and the safety of the first blocks will all be higher than if you had to have aircraft produced in a block here in 2017 or 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525165015	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. The next item is Question 19, and it is for the Minister for Health and the Elderly, and that is what Mr. Erik Christensen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525165029	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525165032	Thank you. Does the Minister intend to accept the invitation to visit Lindegården sent by the staff of the institution to the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525165041	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525165043	First of all, I and the Minister for Home Affairs and Social Affairs have been pleased with the invitation from Lindegården's staff to come and visit them. They are, of course, as I am, if someone is deeply affected by recent tragic acts of violence at settlements committed by people with mental illness. The safety of the employees at the settlements is a problem that, as you know, goes across both the social and health sectors, and this is also the reason why both the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior and I have a great deal of focus on the area and are very concerned about how we can find a common solution so that the employees of the settlements can feel safe going to work. However, I also believe that the questioner agrees with me that at the same time it is important that we think carefully and find the right solutions. Therefore, the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior and I have met with the FOA, the National Federation of Social Pedagogues, the Social Advisor Association and the Danish Nursing Council and thus listened to what the staff organisations think we can do best to strengthen efforts and prevent violence. Today we have also met with the Social Mayor of the City of Copenhagen, Jesper Christensen, where we listened to how he and the City of Copenhagen view the challenges and solutions. The Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior and I have also convened the National Association of Municipalities and Danske Regions for a joint meeting which will be held next week, where we will also discuss their views on the matter. I think it is very important that we should be able to listen to all the relevant parties in this way before we come to a solution. As you know, we have both been called for a conciliation meeting in which the Minister for Home Affairs and Social Affairs and I will once again have the opportunity to discuss the problem with the parliamentary committees. As Minister for Health and the Elderly, I am particularly concerned about how the health sector can improve efforts and ensure the right help for the particular group of citizens with outgoing behaviour and mental disorders, including how regions can ensure better cooperation between regional psychiatry and municipal social institutions such as Lindegården. That is also why I accepted the invitation to visit the psychiatry in Roskilde, which among other things. working with Lindegården. It's sort of 200 metres away. The visit took place on Monday, and we spoke among other things. on how best to strengthen cooperation between the regional psychiatry and the municipal settlements, which fall within the area of the Social and Interior Minister's area of responsibility. According to the responsibilities of the Council, the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior visited Bocenter Lindegården on the same day, so that in the same day we could make sure that we heard the employees on both sides tell us about the challenges they face in their daily lives, and of course also to give them an opportunity to make some of their views known, so that we can be better able to prevent the incidents of violence that we have sadly and deeply tragically seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525165356	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525165358	Well, I'm really glad the Minister takes this seriously. I had no doubt about that either, and I am also aware that discussions are currently taking place. After all, we are in a situation where, in about four years' time, there have actually been five killings of settlements, and it has to be said that if it had happened in the police or among schoolteachers that five people had been killed at their work, then we would probably have reacted differently as a society. I'm pretty sure. That is why my question is this: can the Minister reveal what considerations the Minister is making about what action is to be taken here? Because here we really have to say that with five killings in four years we also have to act relatively quickly as responsible politicians in this area. 'Cause we can't just watch this go on. I can see in newspaper articles that problems still exist at Lindegården with threats of violence, but also death threats, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525165458	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525165500	Thank you for that follow-up question. The questioner himself mentions that four killings have taken place in five years, and that is four killings too much, which I am quite sure we agree on. And that is also why we do not need four more years of talk. There is also a need for action now, in terms of getting closer to solutions. A great deal has been said and spoken over the last 4-5 years, and now we need to find the right solutions. That is why it is important for both the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Interior and I to see to it that they are involved, which is the main issue here, namely all the staff in this area via the staff organisations, because this problem goes across our areas of responsibility. But of course the Landsforening and Danske Regions, who are responsible, must also be involved, so that we can get their solutions in this area. It is necessary, and I have had a very good discussion with the Social Mayor here in Copenhagen only today. It is not a secret that there is, among other things. has been brought up a proposal for a new type of institution. Some call it an interinstitutional or a halfway house, or whatever it is. And some of those things we need to go into in more detail. One thing is to propose a new institution. You also need to be able to explain what content you see. We need to go into this in greater detail. We also need a serious and thorough discussion among the parties of the Folketing about what it is then for any legislation you want or are considering to put into play in this area. And because we are dealing with an area where it is, of course, about some of the most far-reaching forms of intervention.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the contrary, we must think very carefully, and that is why I think that this process of involving the parties is an expression of the fact that we take it seriously, of course, but also of ensuring that it is not just something that comes from the top down.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525165702	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525165704	Thank you for your answer. I am sure that all of the parties in the Folketing have the same interest in having a careful look at this area and also relatively quickly. Can the Minister tell us when the Minister expects there to be a discussion before Parliament's parties on what we are doing in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525165729	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525165732	As I said before, I welcome all the proposals, especially those that are constructive and solution-oriented. What I just add in the same sentence is that one thing is to be able to make a headline on what you might like, but another thing is the whole content. There are, for example: The whole discussion about whether to open up to use coercive places where they are not allowed to resort to coercion today. That is where we are beginning to need to have thorough discussions. That is why I cannot stand here today and guarantee that we can do so in an instant, because we are also dealing with complicated legislation. And is this going to require a series of legislative changes, the questioner as well as me, that this is not something that we can implement overnight? Is it the same as not doing anything in the real world to ensure the safety and safety of employees when they go to work? No, of course you have to do it, and you have to do it right away. I also have the expectation that the City of Copenhagen will, of course, do that as far as Lindegården's employees are concerned, which unfortunately is the last and most recent tragic example we have seen that it has gone completely wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525165838	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525165842	I think it is very important for the staff around the settlements in the country that they get an indication from us and the Minister. I do not think they are in any doubt that we are taking this seriously, but I also believe that they need to know that this is not something that takes 2, 3 or 4 years, but that there is a certain time frame, when we, as parliamentary politicians, are actually going into these discussions and when they can expect some changes in this area. There is no doubt that we will also be discussing this in relation to coercion. I can see that Bent Hansen, the chairman of the Danish Regions, has been out to mention that it could be one of the options.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525165928	Minister
ParlaMint-DK_20160525165932	I would like to make it very clear that as an employee you do not have to wait 2, 3 or 4 years for someone to come closer to what is then the right solution. I am very keen on that, and we are talking about a much shorter time frame. It is only if the questioner had such an expectation that in a very, very short time we could present a single model, because once again I would just refer to the fact that I think it is wise that we should ensure that it is also the right thing to put forward, something that the municipalities and regions also think is a good idea, and not just something that we have just come up with and have said now is what should be the solution. I think there's a need to look at a number of different things in this whole discussion. It is not for me to see any quick and easy solutions. And I believe that we will be looking at a number of areas where there will be a need to change the rules. I think, as I said, that these are good discussions that we are currently having in this area, and I look forward to having the dialogue directly with the municipalities and regions next week, which are, of course, the ones responsible in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525170035	Thank you to the author, and thank you also to the Minister for dealing with Question 19. I am going to say that neither in question 20 nor in question 21 will I be as large in relation to coming past the seconds. But I think it was such an emotional area, question 19, that it was difficult to interrupt both the questioner and the minister. But it is not something that sets a precedent for the next. I regret the inequality in the treatment of the members of the Folketing and the Minister, but otherwise I should have interrupted places where it might be offensive to some, and I chose not to. We now turn to Question 20, which is also addressed to the Minister for Health and the elderly, and this has been asked by Flemming Møller Mortensen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525170120	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525170123	Thank you. I would like to say that the President is at least apologized in this context on my part. It was in the service of a good cause. Yes, the next question to the Minister for Health and the Elderly is this: when does the Minister intend to set up the Committee of Experts on the Payment of Users in Health care, which the Left announced before the last election?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525170139	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525170141	A good and safe healthcare system is a pillar of the public sector, in our society. It is a high priority and crucial welfare area for the government and for all of us as Danes. In 2016, we in the government have prioritised 2.4 billion. kr. to a new significant health boost. We said that before the elections that we would, and we have done so here after the elections. We are not running away from our promises, so we are continuing the development and reform of health care, which we also led in 2001. We're putting the patient in front of the system. All Danes must have access to rapid treatment of a high quality regardless of residence and regardless of income. We insist that it should not be the income that determines where you get the best treatment from the doctor. Therefore, the government will not introduce new user charges on health during this parliamentary term. That is what we said before the elections, and it is also very clear from the government basis. People who claim otherwise, you might say, are running a purely scaremongering campaign. I think the hour of questioning yesterday in this Chamber was a very good example of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525170245	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525170247	Thank you for your answer. My question is quite simple in itself, and the Minister is also talking about it and says that what you have promised and what you have said is what you want to do. In fact, I did not get an answer to my question, which is, of course, about the Minister's statement, and I can find at least two quotes about what has been said that a committee of experts will be set up in relation to user charges. But let me just mention one of them, and it was in Politiken on 4 June 2015: "We have quietly proposed to set up a committee of experts to see if user payments are distributed optimally and we are calling for a real political discussion. It is clear here that it has been proposed that a committee should be set up, and that is why I ask again: does the Minister intend to set up this committee of experts and when?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525170338	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525170339	One way or another, it can be said that I am still calling for that discussion, as user charges are, for me, still illogical, historically randomly arranged. We have about the same level or level of user charges in Denmark as you have in the other Nordic countries, but unlike them, it is concentrated very much around a few areas in Denmark, where not least the teeth are one of those that is probably most obvious to most Danes. As the questioner knows, we have been very busy since the elections, in fulfilling all our health election promises. This applies, for example, to the objective of reducing overcrowding in hospitals, implementing a national action plan for the elderly medical patient, introducing enhanced treatment rights for people, whether physically or mentally ill, a national dementia action plan, and that is how I could mention the promise of promises that we are actively working to achieve and where we are precisely fulfilling the things we have promised. This contrasts sharply with the previous government, which was busy running away from all the things that had been promised before the elections. Then there is the question of setting up a committee of experts. That is not exactly what has been at the top of the pile with the most pressing cases over there with me. We have not put forward a proposal on this yet, and I do not know whether we are doing so, and it can be said that a first condition for considering at all whether this is a good idea is also to look beyond the Folketing and see if it is something that is actually supported. So I could also finish my part of Question Time by hurrying to ask questions the other way, although it is usually the questioner who asks the questions and asking whether that is something the Socialists support, because then it is also an indication.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525170516	I would just like to remind you that both the Minister and the questioner have two more rounds, so you can bite your questions and answers. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525170522	I think that what the Social Democrats are thinking in this context is completely out of the question. What is interesting is that the Minister for Health said twice up to the last parliamentary election that the Left would set up a committee of experts to look at the user fee. That is just my simple question: is it still the idea? And the Minister says that the Minister does not know whether it is still the position of the Left. It is therefore interesting for me to know whether it is still the position of the Left that such a committee of experts should be set up. I have to say, as the Minister said, that yes, we can see that we have quite a lot of use in the dental sector, and it can be seen that inequality is very great. Many people cannot afford to get their teeth fixed, and that is why it is of course a social democratic interest whether some people are thinking of creating a different model for the payment of the user or want to introduce more user charges.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525170622	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525170623	We do not want to introduce new user charges on health. It is quite true that we have an inequality which is reflected in, among other things. Our teeth. In fact, it is surprising that at the time the Socialist-led government chose to take 300 million. kr. from the tooth area and lead them to finance prisons. It is, of course, a priority, but it was not a priority that we agreed on from the Left. Then I think it is absolutely not in fact what the Socialists are thinking. With a smile on your lip, you could say: I hope the questioner himself does not think so. If it is to make any sense at all to consider further and to start a great deal of work in setting up a committee of experts to look at the total amount of user charges, it also requires that the parties of the Folketing think it is a good idea to start the big work, and on the part of the government we have the clear starting point that we do not want new user charges. If everyone says that they do not think it is a good idea at all, it would be a strange suggestion from the rapporteur to say that we should start with something that no one will support. So that is why I say that I actually find it interesting what the Social Democrats think about that proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525170722	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525170724	I find it interesting that on 4 June in Politiken and 29 September 2014 in the Berlingske News Agency, the Minister for Health said that the Left would set up a committee of experts to look at user fees. The Minister has said twice in his reply today that the government is complying with its promises. I could add this to the list of promises that the government is not fulfilling unless the government sets up the committee that has been talked about up to the last elections. So this is just a cover-up of where the Left stands. The Prime Minister was also asked a little the same about yesterday's Question Time, and the Prime Minister replied that it might be set up by the Left. But apparently we are not getting any closer today. It was a step on the way for me to find out where the Left is on something that the Left has reported.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525170817	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525170819	In this government, unlike in the past, we have been busy fulfilling our electoral vows. Unfortunately, speaking time does not allow me to mention the long series of results we have achieved in the field of health. If you have to quote the Prime Minister, at least you have to make sure you do it correctly. What the Prime Minister said at Question Time yesterday was that we have not put forward a proposal on this yet and that we do not yet know if we are doing so. It's just to make it clear that this proposal has not been what we in the government in the Left thought was the allerals most important to the health of the Danes. I have been very concerned about getting something done about the overcrowding that others said they would do something about, but forgot to do after the election that we got started with the work on a future Cancer Plan IV, that we did something more for the elderly medical patient, that we worked to ensure more dignity in the care of the elderly. That is how I could mention a series of initiatives and initiatives which, for us, have been the most important thing to get started now. Is that the same as saying we're not gonna do it? No, we just haven't moved on, and we haven't looked into it yet. But, as I said, I think it is relevant. What do the Socialists really think about this? Should we start a great deal of work and then the Socialists will not say whether we think it is a good idea to carry out this work? After all, the Social Democrats voted in favour of the motion in the Parliamentary Chamber in the past, but when they came into government, they thought the opposite. That is why I think it is actually a relevant question: what do the Socialists think?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525170931	Thank you to the questioner and Minister for Questions and Answers to Question No. 20. You both have question No. 21, which is also for the Minister for Health and the Elderly, and that is also for Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525170944	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525170947	Thank you. What new measures does the Minister intend to take to strengthen structural prevention, so that, as a society, instead of treating when the damage has been done, we avoid the Danes becoming sick?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525171001	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525171002	I have the basic view that we all have a responsibility for our own health, but we also have a responsibility as a society to establish a healthy framework for us that makes it easy to live healthy lives. At the same time, however, there are limits to the involvement of the state or local authorities in people's daily lives and lifestyles, and that is why I am very much in agreement with the former Socialist Minister for Health, my predecessor from the previous government, that raised fingers are rarely the right way forward in the field of prevention. Having said that, there should be no doubt that we in the government take a very serious view of the importance of prevention and, as I have said, society has an important responsibility to establish a framework that can support the ability of all Danes to live a good and healthy life. Among other things: Therefore, it is also important that we as a society protect our children and young people, that they have established the good habits early on, and that we structure the health care system in a way that best prevents elderly patients, for example, from being hospitalised and re-installed. Then there must be a balance between the structural and the softer prevention measures. For this government, it is important that we see prevention in a broader perspective, and the government, since it took office, has also launched a number of major initiatives in the field of health, among others. action towards elderly medical patients, a national action plan for dementia, a future cancer plan IV and a committee work for the close and coherent health care system. All these initiatives include prevention to varying degrees, but in a broader definition than just the KRAM factors. Finally, of course, I would also like to make it clear that we in the government are constantly considering how we can further strengthen prevention. Among other things: We are therefore currently working to change some of the structural conditions in relation to local authorities' incentives to prevent targeted actions by older citizens and citizens in general, as they see on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525171157	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525171200	Thank you. The answer that was then given and the only answer to structural prevention is to look at what framework municipalities should have in relation to some of the conditions that apply to older citizens. After all, we have had an agenda set in Denmark this week based on a documentary from Danmarks Radio, which has looked at social inequality in health. There has been a very high level of seriousness, which says that 25%. of the Danish population does not win by the increase in life expectancy that we otherwise see in our society. Many will characterise it as if they are, like, clogged by a longer life, and that is, of course, a very serious consequence. I think it is remarkable, as the Social Democrats' health rapporteur, that the Left Government, in its government base and its policy in the first year, has not focused on this issue. I think it is serious when the first thing you do is to remove a great deal of what the previous government • which the Minister is kind enough to mention in his reply took the initiative on. The money has been removed in whole or in part, and this leads me to say that such indifference is being signalled by the government. Let me just mention smoking. We know how serious it is that 14 000 people die a year as a result of smoking in one way or another. In Denmark, 22 per cent smoke. of the adult population and 17 per cent of the adult population. smokes every day. That's how 46 percent. of the high school students smoke daily or occasionally, and as much as 57 per cent. of the pupils in vocational schools do so. So this is really serious, and I am thinking of the children and young people, which the Minister also mentions in his reply. When we amended the Smoking Act in 2012, Mrs Sophie Løhde, as the Left Health Rapporteur, argued very strongly that it could be seen that the trend in relation to smoking was decreasing, but now it is not decreasing in Denmark. It is stagnant and more young people are starting to smoke, and I therefore ask my question: does the Left have any proposals for structural changes in the smoking sector in the case of children and young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20160525171421	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525171423	At any rate, it is not right to say that we have not focused on this, and I mentioned a number of initiatives that include prevention. As far as social inequality in health is concerned, the documentary on DR clearly shows that, although we live in one of the world's most equal societies, we also have an enormous degree of inequality in relation to health, despite the fact that otherwise we have the same rights on paper. The fight against inequality in health starts for me to look far away from health care. It is about ensuring that good habits are established early in childhood, that we ensure that children and young people get an education and that they subsequently enter the labour market and thus get a job. Why? Because we know that these are the factors that are crucial when it is that we talk inequality in health. And then I could start by wondering a little back. Because during their reign, the Socialists did not spend much time implementing some of the things we are talking about in terms of structural prevention. Looking at the developments in relation to children and young people and smoking, I think, among other things, that the partnership created by the Cancer and TrygFonden is an enormously good initiative. I very much agree with the President of the fight against cancer, who said recently: we have to recognise that we are no longer going along the path of bans, all initiatives are bouncing off on young people, and therefore we have to think radically differently. I am very, very much in agreement with that, which is why I think it is wise to think about prevention in a different way than just thinking about raised fingers and bans.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525171602	The President was just about to lift the index finger, because the seconds are going to be pretty much exceeded by you two here. But here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525171610	The minister says that you should focus on the good habits of children and young people. I hardly think that we can find a rather more serious issue than that children and young people are increasingly starting to smoke. That is why my question is this: does the Minister have any initiatives with the Left Government in mind in the drawer or in mind, in relation to what can be done to get fewer young people to smoke? The minister mentions the fight against cancer. I know what the fight against cancer is saying that we should do to prevent so many young people and children from smoking in Denmark. And that is in stark contrast to what the Minister is saying here. Many countries, let me just mention Australia and Norway, have had an ambitious and multi-faceted prevention effort against young people smoking and it has proved successful. That is why I find it strange that the Minister is merely talking and not bringing up anything concrete. That is why I would like to say that the Minister's indifference is being signalled in this context to the single factor that triggers the most illness and death in Denmark, namely smoking.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525171732	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525171734	In a way, I maintain that one of the ways to ensure prevention is precisely to focus on establishing good habits early on. This was one of the reasons why the Left, among other things, used to be. proposed that we should ensure at least one hour's daily exercise • a proposal that subsequently entered into our joint agreement on a reform of primary school, which we also had before, the last time we were in government, had to propose and which, fortunately, there was support for, so that we can ensure that children and young people move more. Then I fully agree that we must also focus on children and young people in relation to smoking. From my point of view, too many people smoke, especially young people in vocational schools. I think it is a frighteningly high number of young people in vocational schools who smoke daily. That is also why I am saying that in the approach to how we should do something about this, I think what the fight against cancer comes with here and says very clearly is interesting, namely that we are not going any further along the path of prohibition. We need to think radically differently. I think that is also what we need to respond and deliver on politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525171837	The questioner for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525171839	I have a document from the fight against cancer which says precisely that there are also opportunities for action which should be given political weight. You mention, among other things, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. higher prices for tobacco, tobacco under the counter, neutral gaskets, the removal of exceptions in the law on smoke-free environments, the cessation of tobacco marketing at music festivals and the phasing out of tobacco. So it is fantastic, however, that the Minister is saying that there are no recommendations that we can and must do anything else. As Social Democrats, we know that we should not just do one thing. We must act on a wide scale, and that is why I also mentioned Australia and Norway, which have had good experiences. But I have no answer to what the Left Government wants in this area. I think this is unambitious, and I think it seems like indifference to break and break the inequality in health. When the Minister speaks of good habits in children and young people, it is only words. There are no actions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525171942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525171943	First of all, we should not think that it was only 11 months ago that the Socialists had left the government offices. With regard to the claim that nothing is happening, I would say that it is not long ago that the government, by the vote of the Socialists, has just voted through a new legislative proposal which follows up on the Tobacco Products Directive and where, among other things, we have voted. tightens up in a number of areas. We are also implementing a ban on e-cigarettes for children and young people and getting bigger labels on the packages, to name but some of the things contained in the legislative proposals we have voted through. So to say that there hasn't been anything else at all is an image that I don't quite recognize. Is that the same as saying that we should not do more in relation to children and young people? No, it's not. I simply very much agree with the focus of the fight against cancer, together with TrygFonden, on children and young people, namely that we must perhaps politically consider and govern and deliver differently from just the traditional thinking that if we hit some young people on top of our heads and have raised our fingers and come up with bans, then we will achieve our goals. I do not think we are doing that, and that is why I also think it is an extremely important partnership presented by the TrygFonden and the Fight against Cancer and, of course, we must also make political efforts to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525172058	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. That was the end of Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160525172106	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 26 May 2016, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
