ParlaMint-DK_20161122130006	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122130015	I have to inform Parliament that today we have an official visit from Sweden's Riksdag under the leadership of Talman Urban Ahlin. On behalf of the Danish Parliament, I warmly welcome our guests to the meeting here in the Danish Parliament, expressing the wish that the stay in Denmark may be fruitful for the delegation. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122130044	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122130100	Thank you. Friday the door opened in the Ministry of Finance: An agreement on a new Finance Act is in place. It's a good finance bill. It strengthens our core welfare, our security and security; it facilitates the everyday life of Danish families and our business community; it contributes to Denmark's being able to move forward into the future, and it deserves Denmark. We are lifting the cancer treatment by 2.2 billion. kr. Until 2020, among other things: with a new cancer plan IV. This is quite a significant increase in cancer treatment in Denmark and deserves the many cancer-stricken Danes, their families and their relatives. We will strengthen our nursing home and our care for the elderly by an additional 2 billion. kr. over four years, and that is beyond the billion we gave last year. It deserves both the elderly and the many employees who help the elderly. We lower the registration fee so that more people can afford a safer car with better space for children and dog and stroller. The Danish families deserve that. We're investing over 600 million. kr. in nurseries and kindergartens. It deserves both the children and the many educators and assistants who each day in the most literal sense care for and shape the future of Denmark. We are introducing an emergency brake in the area of refugees so that Denmark can reject refugees at the border if a crisis situation arises again which puts Danish borders under pressure. We are making it easier to send rejected asylum seekers home. We spend more money on police officers and on more severe penalties for illegal possession of weapons. It creates more security, and we all deserve that. We strengthen the security of the landowners by freezing the ground debt. It can calm the stomach of the homeowners... we owe it to them. At the same time, in a wider circle of parties, we have made an agreement that must both provide more accurate property assessments and give back their money to the homeowners who have paid tax on too high an assessment since 2011. We owe it to them, and it is even in such a literal sense: we owe it to them. In this context, I also owe a debt of gratitude to both the Social Democracy and the Radical Left for taking responsibility and being part of the agreement. And then there is not least a thank you to the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party for both backing the agreement on a new property assessment system and the Finance Act for 2017. Thank you. This also applies to our agreement to abolish the PSO tax, so that it will be significantly easier to operate. It is the one-off biggest growth contribution to Danish industry seen in recent times. So, what now? Are we done? On the contrary. Denmark must move forward into the future, and we will best do so with a strengthened bourgeois-liberal government. I think Denmark deserves that. That's why I had • and now I'm not revealing any secret • yesterday meeting at Marienborg with Mr. Anders Samuelsen and Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen in his efforts to explore the possibilities of forming a bourgeois-liberal triclover government. We'll meet again later today. I shall, of course, come back to that. I believe that the agreements we have reached over the last few weeks confirm that the starting point is both solid and promising. The same applies to our Kingdom community. After all, today there is an extended Question Time, which means that our North Atlantic family is with us for the first time in this Assembly. I think it is a good and important tradition which the Bureau of the Danish Parliament has chosen to maintain that we regularly discuss issues in the Kingdom Community. I look forward to it. Then there is also a new family member, Tórbjørn Jacobsen from Tjóðveldi, whom I would particularly like to welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122130457	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now we move on to questions from the party leaders. The questioner and Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time. Then there are two follow-up questions where the questioner and the Prime Minister each have one minute's speaking time. The first question is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122130517	Thank you very much from here too. After all, at the national meeting of the Left this weekend, it emerged that you want to enter into government with the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives based on a whole new government basis. If you look at the current government basis, you can see that the government wants to strengthen the Kingdom community in an equal and trusting cooperation. The government supports the constitutional work that is going on in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, and I am also very pleased that the government in the current government base gives priority to ensuring up-to-date legislation in Greenland and ensuring a worthy standard in the 32 areas Denmark is responsible for on behalf of Greenland. Since the start of the government base, a number of results have also been achieved from a Greenlandic perspective, and we have, among other things, been able to negotiate a pool of rates. Guaranteed means for strengthened inclusion of Greenlanders, which is one of the objectives that is also in the government base. Although we still lack a great deal of knowledge about the modern Greenlandic society in Danish society, I think there are some results that you can look back on. We have also been invited to the finance negotiations. This is something that IA has been struggling with alone for last year's negotiations. I think it is very, very gratifying that the government has been sensitive to this. The Constitution says that all of us members are equal regardless of whether we come from Greenland, the Faroe Islands or Denmark. At the last formation of the government, North Atlantic members were also invited to the discussions on how the government base should be forward-looking. I think that was actually very positive. So I would very much like to know whether the Prime Minister will maintain the section on the Commonwealth, or whether the North Atlantic Members will be invited to discuss a future government basis with a particular view to discussing the Commonwealth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122130713	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122130715	Thank you. May I not start by signing off on what I choose to take down as a kind of praise for the approach that my government has taken to the Kingdom community and the cooperation that has also been with Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. We have appreciated that too. I am glad that this slightly more open dialogue and greater involvement have arisen, including those places where, in this case, the Greenlandic members are not covered by conciliation. This is true, for example. the rate pool. It is perhaps very natural that when it is a settlement that conveys money that is basically from Danish transfer recipients, it is a conciliation circle of Danish parties that is behind it. But there has been the kind of contact that has made it possible to see that Greenland's views have also been listened to. It is certainly my ambition to maintain that line. I cannot stand by and anticipate any negotiations that have not yet been completed, but Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen can find confidence in the fact that what is in the government base on the Kingdom Community will, for me and the party I represent, be the starting point of the negotiations that are now to start. I also have a good feeling that we will find a common line in a new government that meets the line of the current government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122130841	Thank you. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122130843	Thank you very much. At least the ball has been played on to the other parties. One of the 32 areas Denmark is responsible for on behalf of Greenland is defence, and this summer the government published an Arctic analysis which pointed to a strengthening of defence tasks in Greenland in the future. And the recommendations you make are among other things. a voluntary response and ensuring that the Greenlandic population is more involved in the defence's tasks in the future. Last week, in the Committee on Defence and Defence Policy, we had a hearing on the Arctic, where we discussed options for the tasks that were to be carried out, but where we also discussed the future defence settlement. A request from IA is that the North Atlantic members have the opportunity to participate in the defence reconciliation negotiations, because the conciliation negotiations are about the whole Kingdom community. But it is not the whole Kingdom community that sits at the table. So I would like to hear from the Prime Minister about the support that we see from other parties, among others. Conservatives, for the North Atlantic members to sit with, and whether, that is something that the government also supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122130953	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122130955	It is quite true that there is a North Atlantic angle to defence. So that's not the only angle that is. It is also, it may be said, the historical background to the fact that North Atlantic members have traditionally not entered into defence agreements. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen himself referred to the hearing that was held in the Defence Committee, I think it was on 17 November when some of these questions were also highlighted. And what I can say is that in the further work the Minister for Defence will discuss the North Atlantic angles on these issues with those Members of this House who may have an interest in it. But again: When we get further forward and come up with a proposal for a defence settlement, it will have a perspective that goes beyond the North Atlantic. However, I can at least give a commitment to discuss the North Atlantic perspectives.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122131054	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122131056	Thank you very much. After all, one of the objectives which the government has in the government's constitution is to ensure that the border barriers that exist are removed. There is freedom of movement within the Kingdom Community, but at the same time we see these barriers becoming barriers within the Kingdom Community. This is something that makes everyday life difficult for a great many Greenlanders, both Greenlanders in Greenland, but also Greenlanders who are here in Denmark. This is among other things. in the area of pensions and in relation to a Greenland driving licence, there is a barrier as it is today. After all, the government has taken responsibility for making a two-dollar list. We have been in a meeting with the Minister for Social Affairs, who coordinates on behalf of the whole government, and one of the things that has been pointed out is that the North Atlantic members would like to hear some input into this two do-list, that is, what should be prioritised. We did so in February, it is about nine months ago, and we have hardly heard anything since the government. I have taken it up repeatedly in the Greenland Committee, but I would like to hear: when is the government going to ensure that this problem of border barriers is resolved?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122131205	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122131208	Well, I have to admit that I don't know all the details of that case. I am very concerned that we are seeking to eliminate the barriers between parts of the Kingdom community. For example: It's the only place in Europe where you can't bring your dogs. It would be nice if the Faroese could take their dogs on holiday in Denmark. So it's really very close to my heart. In the light of this question, I would like to give an undertaking to take stock of it. I know that different parts are being worked on, and I also know that the Minister for Social Affairs, for example. in relation to the problems that have been with NemID and social security numbers, is in a very concrete process. But I must also say openly that where we are in relation to all the elements identified on the two do-list, I cannot in my head. But I would like to give the undertaking that I will go home and ensure that there is momentum in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122131312	Thank you. And the next of the North Atlantic members is Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122131327	The Kingdom community is changing, and the Kingdom community has been changing for quite some time. That's good. We are developing according to the objectives we have in the Kingdom Community. I know that the Prime Minister considers the Kingdom Community to be very important, and he also says time and again that you want to keep the Kingdom Community as it is. But the fact is that Greenland has initiated constitutional work. Greenland has also appointed a minister for independence. So Greenland has set itself some major objectives that will have a major impact on the Kingdom community and on what it will look like in the future. But we have one thing in common that we are both proud of, and that is the law of autonomy. And under the Self-Government Act we have an obligation both ways to respect the agreements we have made between Denmark and Greenland. This concerns, among other things: That we have a principle of co-existence whereby, as two governments or two parliaments, we inform each other of things and matters which are of great importance for political work. It has staggered somewhat lately, especially when it comes to providing information simultaneously to the Danish Parliament, but also providing information to Greenland, especially when it comes to the Thule contracts. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister intends to ensure that the principle of co-existence is respected at all times on all issues relating to the Commonwealth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122131500	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122131502	Thank you. But I am very concerned that we have a good dialogue, which is also characterised by the simultaneous nature of the dialogue so that it can translate into results, and we are endeavouring to do so. The Thule contract is now mentioned, and it is also my particular impression that there is a good dialogue with the Greenlandic authorities on the matter which, of course, has a perspective that extends to the United States too. I am aware that the Foreign Minister has just yesterday held a videoconference with relevant people in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122131540	Here you go, Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122131543	Thank you very much. Now that we see a new government coming, I wish the Prime Minister all the best for the future, especially when it comes to the Kingdom community and issues relating to our common interests. The current Arctic strategy is coming to an end. This means that we are now about to develop a new Arctic strategy, hopefully in close cooperation with Greenland and all three parts of the Kingdom Community. Since 2010 there has been the current Arctic strategy and a new one that will be on the way, really much has happened in the Arctic area, and the whole question of Arctic issues has gained a global interest. This means, therefore, that the hopefully future Danish Community-Arctic strategy will involve very concrete proposals on how to solve things and the challenges we will face in the future. Can the Prime Minister give us some suggestions as to what improvements and areas of action we can count on in the future Arctic strategy?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122131652	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122131654	So, overall, we have proposed that we strengthen three areas in relation to monitoring, in relation to command, control and communication and in relation to operational intervention units. This is, moreover, in line with the recording that came from Ambassador Peter Taksøe. And then I know that there has been a hearing in the Defence Committee quite recently, where this has been discussed and unfolded. And in parallel with what I said before, it will be a task for the Secretary of Defense in preparing for the implementation of this strategy to get even deeper into this, and in this context it will be perfectly, quite natural that the Secretary of Defense should also enter into direct dialogue with North Atlantic members.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122131745	Here you go, Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122131747	Recently, in relation to Greenland, we have had some good discussions between Greenland and Denmark, especially with regard to raw materials and the raw materials sector, but also with regard to an area such as the presence of the Americans in Greenland, which has created some political controversy about pollution and the Thule contract and the like. This also means that our political discussions will not be reduced with the time when Greenland wants more self-determination and equal treatment in all three parts of the kingdom community. In the coming government we would like to see a Prime Minister who will respond to Greenland's desire for a greater degree of self-determination and who will in future work to ensure that more cases are taken home by Greenland. Do we see this with openness on the part of the Prime Minister, and does the Prime Minister also intend to comply fully with the Self-Government Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122131845	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122131847	Thank you. In other words, my approach to these issues is not that I am the one who has to work for areas to be taken home. My approach to this is that it is in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands that, within the framework of the legislation that we have now provided, we decide independently on the appetite we have and that we must then work constructively together to satisfy that appetite. But the starting point is Nuuk and Thorshavn. At any rate, we find a government that is cooperative in this respect, and I hope that we will find that in the future too.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122131930	Thank you. The next one is sir. Tórbjørn Jacobsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122131949	First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his warm and warm welcome. The question concerns the Faroe Islands' export possibilities in various markets. It is now well known that the current trade agreement between the Faroe Islands and the EU is extremely restrictive, unbalanced and asymmetrical. There is free trade in goods from the EU, including Denmark to the Faroe Islands, while the Faroe Islands can export a relatively large proportion of their fishery products duty-free to the EU, but they have an MFA duty on processed fishery products and certain other fishery products. The possibility of economic growth in the Faroe Islands certainly comes from processing, among other things. the pelagic catch, not counting on a significant increase in quota sizes in the first few years. In the future production of goods and economic growth, the current agreement will be an obstacle. This can already be seen in the statistics, as Faroese exports to the EU over the last 10 years have been reduced from 80%. 50%. of export volume. While this is the situation for the Faroe Islands, on 30 October this year the EU concluded the CETA Agreement with Canada and, once fully implemented for bilateral trade, Canada can export all its fishery products duty-free to the EU. Given that Canada and the Faroe Islands are competitors in exports and trade in fishery products, it can now be confirmed that in future there will be a distortion of competition between countries on the EU market in favour of Canada. The Danish Foreign Minister has even confirmed this in a reply to the MF from Tjóðveldisflokkurin. What is the Prime Minister's view that Denmark, as a Member State of the EU and with the participation of the Folketing, can open its market to goods, including fishery products, to an unlimited extent from distant countries in other continents while maintaining the EU's discriminatory trade policy towards the Faroe Islands?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122132142	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122132144	Thank you. In other words, without provocation, it could be said that it would have been easier if the Faroe Islands had been a member of the European Union. It is clear that this poses some challenges. There is no reason to hide the fact that when we make a free trade agreement with Canada, which I support very, very warmly, which gives Canadian products easier access to Europe, and that the other way we also have easier access to Canada, this means that, in relation to a range of products where the Faroe Islands have top competences, you will experience a stronger competition from Canada and that you will not get the opposite benefits. And it is because everything comes with a price, and it comes with a price that the Faroe Islands have historically decided to stand somewhere else in European cooperation than the Danish part of the kingdom community has done. And I can't spell that away, so now I'm gonna be completely open about it. Having said that, we will of course do everything we can to ensure maximum market access and marketing opportunities for the Faroe Islands in Europe, and there is also close cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Faroese authorities, and we would like to intensify that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122132309	Here you go, sir. Tórbjørn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122132311	Canada is not now a member of the European Union either. This must be said to be a paradoxical situation facing the Faroe Islands, as Denmark and the EU conspirators choose to conclude a free trade agreement with the sovereign state of Canada, which directly has the opportunity to compete the Faroe Islands out of the European market under the favourable conditions imposed by the CETA Agreement. There is a precedent. About 10 years ago, the European Union was to conclude an agreement with the Mediterranean countries on the African coast and the countries of the Middle East, African and Arabic implementation in this pan-European cumulation agreement. The EU's original plans were to keep the Faroe Islands outside of this agreement, but the Danish side stated the condition in connection with a Danish acceptance that the Faroe Islands were included in the agreement, and this happened afterwards. Does the Prime Minister think that Denmark can intervene in the same way in the new and distorted market situation facing the Faroe Islands on the European market after the EU and Denmark have concluded the CETA agreement with Canada?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122132413	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122132414	May I just say that I am well aware that Canada is not part of the European Union. That is why we made a free trade agreement with them because it strengthens Europe that we have better outlets in Canada, and it strengthens Canada that Canada has better outlets in Europe. Now, in the Faroe Islands, a historic decision has been taken not to be part of the European Community. It is a Faroese decision, and it has a consequence, and if Mr. Tórbjørn Jacobsen believes that the consequence could be that Denmark would then have to tighten its feet in favour of a prospectful trade agreement, and then you would make a claim to me that I cannot meet. We want to be responsive to Faroese requests, and if there are Faroese requests in relation to the implementation of the Canadian agreement, i.e. the CETA agreement, which we can support, we are happy to do so. But we also have to be open and honest with each other, and everything comes with a price, and that price is different. We have, for example. European sanctions also apply to Russia, where I have the feeling that the Faroe Islands are thinking in the narrow context: we are not covered by them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122132540	Here you go, sir. Tórbjørn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122132541	If the CETA agreement is ratified and the Faroe Islands' asymmetric trade agreement with the EU hangs, there will be a problem. Therefore, it is appropriate to know what attitude the central power of the high-profile Kingdom community has towards the new situation, which will result in a huge distortion of competition on the European market, in which Faroese exports of fishery products are kept in semi-finished products, a foreign state. We are being hit on the basis of our existence in unequal competition. Our foreign policy matters are already very limited in the law on the conclusion by the Faroe Islands' Home Rule Government of international law agreements which are similar to colonial detention. Does the Prime Minister consider that the above-mentioned law should be renegotiated with the aim of making the three countries to which the law relates three equal parts on the foreign policy stage, but sovereign in terms of trade competence and responsibility, as trade agreements are negotiated and concluded, for example. between the Faroe Islands and other countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122132643	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122132644	Thank you. So, asymmetry: May I not repeat that we are happy to assist the Faroe Islands in situations where there are special Faroese interests, which get a little squeezed by the fact that the Faroe Islands have made a decision not to join the European Union. We do so on the basis of the situation that the Faroe Islands themselves have chosen to put themselves in. Now I pointed this out and tried to be a little diplomatic about the asymmetry that is in the way Europe responds to Russia. And I don't know if Mr. Tórbjørn Jacobsen stands and demands that there should be symmetry, i.e. whether the Faroe Islands will be subject to the same sanctions as the rest of Europe has in relation to Russia, and what effects it will have on Faroese salmon exports. There just has to be consistent views here. And everything comes with a price. It is in the overall interest of the Kingdom community that free trade should exist in the world and that we should have a free trade agreement with Canada. To put it bluntly, I am not going to give a commitment to deposit future ratification options beyond the provisions of the Constitution, so we got some situation where a future European free trade agreement stood and fell with not a parliament in Wallonia, but with the Latting in the Faroe Islands, or whatever it may be. It can't be like that. However, it should not shadow what I say overall, namely that we are happy to assist in promoting Faroese interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122132820	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Tórbjørn Jacobsen and welcome to the Danish Parliament, by the way. Here you go, sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122132827	Thank you. When I was standing on the stairs outside Christiansborg just before and wondering what questions to ask the Prime Minister, a friend came by to see me and said: Hello Sjúrður, how are you? Then I thought, that's a nice question. That's the question you ask each other when you want to know something about each other, isn't it? It is, of course, informal, but also when it comes to more formal talks, for example. When a journalist interviews a cultural person, open questions are asked: What do you mean? What are you thinking? What do you want? When a politician is interviewed, the rules of the game are quite different, so it's a fight, then the conversation is a fight, so it's about asking questions that the politician can't answer, questions that put the politician on ice, questions that make the politician stupid. Of course, it's very good that we have an aggressive press... it's good for the people... but sometimes it can be just as much of the good, I think. And in this forum, the question time, it is the case that we politicians are each allowed to play journalists for 10 minutes. And the rules of the game are quite clear: it is a battle and whoever can ask a question to the Prime Minister, whom he cannot answer, wins. Anyone who can put the Prime Minister on ice, who can make the Prime Minister fuck up, wins. I mean, it's okay to have that arrangement, but sometimes, if you've tried to sit in the reporters' barbecue yourself, you think this barbecue can be just as much of the good. So I actually think I'm gonna start with the question I got myself on the stairs outside just before: how are you, Lars? How are you?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122133023	We're just gonna let that go through. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122133029	Tað gongur fínt... I just want to say. The questioner has, after all, put me on a little slippery, and that may be why there are inverse rules of the game, because we might actually get out more easily when we get those open questions, because that is how we are getting used to the others. Well, tað gongur fínt, and it does, because, as I also mentioned in my first speech, we have had some agreements in place here on Friday, which are good and perspectiveful. It is also going well because I think that with some probability a method has also been found that might help to thaw up the political climate a little, so that we can create the framework for continuing the discussions we need in Denmark, on how we maintain our position in the world community as a rich and prosperous society, also when the next generation is to take over. So tað gongur fínt.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122133135	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122133137	Thank you. I could continue to ask how the cycle is going, but I'll leave it. Congratulations on the Finance Act, congratulations on the Congress that has just been held and congratulations on the government that is almost in place. I could see that the Prime Minister at the Congress spoke of his wish that the Sambands Party and the Folk flock win the next parliamentary election in the Faroe Islands, so there will be two more bourgeois mandates in the Folketing, which will make it easier to form a bourgeois government after the elections. I would like to know whether it is something that is governed by day-to-day politics, whether you have the party-political tactics in mind when you conduct politics with us and with the government in the Faroe Islands. I want to say straight away that I don't feel that way. I think that we have a very good dialogue with the government ministers and that good solutions are being found, and I clearly feel that the policy towards the Faroe Islands, from where I stand, is above tactics. But could it be that the government has a policy towards the national government of the Faroe Islands, which has as some unsaid purpose that it should go badly so that the other two parties can come to power?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122133249	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122133250	No, that's not possible. After all, reference is now being made to the national meeting that I attended this weekend as chairman of the party of which I am chairman, which for 100 years has had a special relationship with a particular Faroese party, the Samband Party, and it would be strange if we did not want that party to go well for many reasons, among others. It is also because it has the same attitude as my own party. At least up to now, there has been a tradition of the North Atlantic Members putting their weights in the parliamentary scales, which is why it is clear that in the narrow context it is nice and good if there are also North Atlantic members who will support the government. There could be an exciting discussion about this, because in these years at the same time we see a movement which is about independence, and which is about the fact that, in reality, the Folketing should not engage in any binding way in relation to the Faroe Islands and Greenland. But that does not alter the fact that the Constitution establishes, that all members of parliament are equal and can therefore put the weights in these scales, and there the Prime Minister in office at any time will probably prefer to place the most or his or her. But otherwise, I would just like to say that my approach to the Faroe Islands and Greenland is the same approach, by the way, without comparison, as we have to the municipalities of the country, namely that we do not really see who is at the head of the administrations. So our community policy is shaped by ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122133431	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122133433	Thank you. I shall return to what Tórbjørn Jacobsen was talking about, and this is a very important matter. After all, the Faroe Islands are the country throughout Europe which has the worst market access to the European Union at all. We have 25% duty on all manufactured goods and we simply end up being such a commodity exporter. I myself believe that we should be much closer to the European Union than we are, but there is no support for that in the Faroe Islands at the moment. But I would like to know if the new government, which is now being formed, could set itself the objective. After all, trade policy is a Faroese matter, but foreign policy is a Danish matter, and the two things are entangled, they are linked and they play together. For this reason, Danish assistance is needed in order to have a better agreement. Could it be that the new government set itself the objective of doing what it can to ensure that the Faroe Islands have a much better trade agreement than what is currently in place, which is a very dangerous arrangement? And does the Prime Minister think there's a chance?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122133531	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122133532	I would like to give the undertaking that we would like to assist the Faroe Islands in getting the best possible opportunities. But we can't magic, and that's why it's also dependent on Faroese actions. However, I would very much like to offer a dialogue on how to develop the best strategy together. I just want to say that, but I do not think that is in the question either, because Mr. Sjúrður Skaale also says that he would have liked to see a closer relationship between the Faroe Islands and the EU, that one has to think it in. If you are in a mackerel war with Europe and if you take the benefits of not being subject to the sanctions that Europe has and thus take the really mercantile benefits out of it, then that also means something for your overall negotiating position. It does. So I think there is also a need for a debate on what position you want in the Faroe Islands. Because if you, as it were, take the benefits where you have no bindings, and then you want the benefits where there are bindings, then there may be an asymmetry in your approach that can be difficult to deliver on. But I love the Kingdom community very much, and I love the Faroese people and the Greenlandic people very much, and if there is anything we can do to promote a sustainable economy and a sustainable economy in both places, we are very happy to do so. This seems to me to be a natural task, which is beyond that, which government constellation might be.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122133709	Thank you. Then we go ahead in the series of speeches, and this is now Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122133718	The Prime Minister is just telling me to start with something open and positive. I would like to do so, and since the Minister for Finance is not here, perhaps the Prime Minister can convey a greeting and thank you from our side, because, I think, we have an exceptionally good agreement on the PSO tax. It was simply the cooperative government of the people at its best, so a positive and good greeting to the country's finance minister, and that brings me quite well to the next. Because I also heard the Minister of Finance initiate the tones of the "I haven't slept in a year's melody at the National Meeting of the Left, and I, under such a view, the Minister of Finance, have a vacation. Now the Prime Minister knows that I am fond of the Olsen-Band, and I think that, when you look over the figures there, perhaps in passing, there may be a certain similarity between Kjeld and the Minister of Finance. It always ends up with Kjeld having to pay the price when the brilliant plans fail anyway, and he always ends up going to Mallorca so that it could be a place where the finance minister might come to. Now that we are at the Olsen-Band, I suppose we have actually found out that what I had said in the opening debate was quite wrong, because I was walking around thinking that Mr. Anders Samuelsen was Dynamit-Anders. But there isn't much dynamite anymore, and we're gonna really look at Benny, as some people remember, which is something with cars, a high mood and a thought that everything is going to work out, and then we've got the roles in place. But that's not what's most interesting. Because what I really want to ask is the basis of the government. What are we going to expect from this new personal constellation in Danish politics? I hope, of course, that we will not see a single-block policy, and I hope that the Prime Minister will take the lead in a cooperative government of the people, because that is what we need. But we also have a need to hear what is going to happen. I know, sir. Anders Samuelsen has already announced that we are going to see the most bourgeois-liberal government base ever, and that is why I have a very specific question which can be answered with a yes or no, and that is: will the new government have minus growth in the public sector on the agenda?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122133936	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122133939	Thank you. Well, I have no doubt that Mrs Mette Frederiksen under the Minister for Finance, but in fact all of us, a very long holiday and probably without expiry date, and then I even think that if we accepted that offer we could stay in the country as such. I have no doubt about that at all, but I should like to convey a greeting to the Minister of Finance, who does not vacation, I know, because he is doing a very specific job. But I would like to do so, and I would also like to sign the other way for the agreement that has been made. I am very, very pleased with that. We had a problem with the assessment system, which had been there for some years and which it was unsustainable to lay down, and it is good that it has been picked up. Then there is another half of what we will have to return to in the new year, and I hope that, in the same circle, a sensible tax solution will be found to ensure that there is security, both for the present and for the future homeowners. So I look forward to that very much. In other words, it is not because it would be difficult to answer the question that was asked there, but, on the other hand, I have to wonder whether I should start answering a lot of questions about a government basis that has not yet been negotiated at all, and that is probably not appropriate. So you might have to arm yourself with some patience. I can say that my own starting point and my party's starting point are clear, and you can read this from the plan for a stronger Denmark that we have put forward. Because you can see us in the cards. It is a little more unclear the other way, because three months after we have presented the overall plan for a stronger Denmark, we have not yet got a figure from the Social Democratic Party on what kind of growth ambition we have in 2025.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122134135	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122134136	No, but it is also a matter of referring to a plan which was not implemented and for which there is no majority. I therefore expect that the positions which have been based in the Folketing up to this point will still be lost, and in that case there will not be a majority for negative growth, and there will be no majority for later withdrawal, and there will be no majority for top tax relief. That is why the question is not really so difficult to answer for the Prime Minister of the country. Because, yes, there are plenty of compromises in politics, we can understand, even some pretty large ones, but you have it with yourself that you know there is something you do not want and that the price can be too high I assume that applies to the Prime Minister too. Therefore, I do not think it is premature or premature to ask about something as essential as whether we can expect negative growth, i.e. whether it will be part of the government base or not. Because that means direct savings on welfare, on the elderly, on children, in schools, and I think that is appropriate to get on the table now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122134246	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122134248	Well, I can easily hear that it doesn't sound like a very good idea, and I don't go into that work with an ambition to implement a lot of bad ideas. It's not a hard question to answer, I just don't want to do it. And it is simply out of respect for the fact that yesterday I have invited two other parties to discuss the possibility of creating a unified political platform from which a new bourgeois-liberal three-clover government can seek to cooperate with the Folketing. It can not only be based on the fact that it was almost in what was said before that you just have to take a snapshot of what the Folketing thinks, and then we also mean the same thing, because then it all gets easier. It can't be like that. It has to be the case that we have to think about: what is the starting point of such a government? What does such a government want with Denmark? That is out of respect for it, and I think politics should be that way. That is why it annoys me with no bounds that the Social Democrats, three months after we have put forward a plan, have not given the idea of a hint, and that is not because I would necessarily agree with what was then said, but then I would know what was meant. Right now, I don't know anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122134412	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122134414	But what the Prime Minister says is simply not true. And I just have to say in all silence, because the Prime Minister always ends up getting upset when we have these conversations, that when we don't have a desire to grant top tax relief, we don't have to ask the worn-out Danish employee to work anymore either. If we do not want to spend money on top tax concessions, we do not need to make the reforms that the Prime Minister has put forward, but for which the Prime Minister has not been able to obtain a majority. So it is okay that you are big in the battle and say that you are making plans, but when you cannot get them adopted, they are not worth the paper they are written on. That is why we have to return to the Folketing, because this is where we make the decisions. The Prime Minister may in fact say this himself, emphasising that it will be a bourgeois-liberal government, which is why it is right to ask what the consequences will be. I note, for example, that Mr. Anders Samuelsen says: "It is more likely that Thulesen Dahl will give himself on economic policy. If we need our mandates, this is where we have to be paid, it is as simple as that, says Samuelsen, and continues: "We need to get minus growth in the public sector, and we will get that too. That is why the question is quite simple: is that what is going to happen? Now I know that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl will have the floor after me, and I hope that we will then be able to confirm that it will not be with the votes of the Danish People's Party either. But I really would like to hear the Prime Minister: Anders Samuelsen says that we will have that, is that what will be the outcome of the negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122134535	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122134536	I don't get excited at all. All I can say is that the Social Democratic Party, and it is of no use for anything to be talked about, has set no target for how much richer one has an ambition for Denmark to be in 2025. No way. No target has been set. And why is that important? This is of course important, because if we do not make ourselves richer, if we do not get any more growth, then it is lost future opportunities. And that has nothing to do with top tax, because it may well be that social democracy has a different recipe for how to get more growth. That's fair enough. But we cannot even know what the level of ambition of social democracy is. It's depressing. We have a leading opposition party that has not even submitted a draft Finance Act with a single figure. That's disheartening. And then I have to answer everything here, and it's not hard to answer, there's just no need to do it. Now we have invited some negotiations, and if they end with a new government base and a new government, then we will put it forward. I can also say that it is my intention, if we could get there, to ask the Danish Parliament to make a statement in accordance with the rules laid down in the Rules of Procedure, similar to what would normally be done with an opening debate or after a new election. So it is not because I want to avoid being a target for the policy of the new government, it is just because there is no new government yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122134702	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122134708	Thank you for that, thank you for the floor. Thank you to the Prime Minister for his introduction. I would also like to start by signing off on some good deals in the past week. I have the pleasure that I can not only sign for a good deal on the PSP, I can also sign for a good agreement on the 2017 Finance Act, which we signed on Friday. There are a lot of good things in it, and little advertising could be about asking people to go in and check the 2017 Finance Act, simply go through it from end to end. Then you will see a lot of good initiatives, among others. for the benefit of our elderly, for our health sector, we have more police officers, tightening up foreign policy, etc. It is logical that interest should now be focused on a new government, a new government basis, after the National Assembly of the Left and the Prime Minister's speech. One of the things I would at least like to say to the Prime Minister that I think is good in the old government basis is the finding that Denmark is a Christian country. I hope that this will return to a new government basis. But what I would also like to ask the Prime Minister to deal with here today without having to say exactly what a new government basis looks like is that one thing is to note that Denmark is a Christian country, another thing is to think that it is actually a valuable thing for Denmark, that we can be described as a Christian country, so that there are some Christian values that we have been handed down from previous generations, a 1,000-year-old kingdom that is built around the Christian values that have also made its mark in the way we are as a society, and that we must therefore in fact not only note that Denmark is a Christian country, but also safeguard the values that the cultural heritage has given us. At any rate, I think it would be a good thing to find out today that we must safeguard that. Because if we want to, of course I have to come back to time, after all, we are moving quickly so that together we can ensure that we also safeguard the basis of value that we have been handed down from previous generations.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122134916	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122134918	Thank you for that, and also a receipt the other way for good cooperation on the agreements that have been concluded, and a expressed wish that it is based on being able to do so very many times in the future • a receipt anew for continued good agreements. When it is stated in the basis for the present government that Denmark is a Christian country, it is because we mean it and we also think it should remain that way. You can read my government's basis as the Left's basis for the discussions that are now to take place. It's not really about pushing people into Christian religion; it's about taking it all the way down, that this society is built on values that can be attributed to our Christian cultural heritage and that have made tracks in the way we are between each other. Neighborly love, forgiveness, trust, equality have its origins there, and we must stand guard over that. I have as my ambition that a new government should do so too.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122135033	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122135035	Thank you. In the spring, TV 2 drove the broadcast series... the mosques behind the veil. Denmark's Radio started a series of themes on Sunday entitled "We share Denmark" and took part. starting from Brøndby Strand, which is now the first postcode where ethnic Danes have come into the minority. This illustrates, and it is also supported in connection with this documentary, that there are more and more places in Denmark where we will be able to see that ethnic Danes come into the minority. If it were so that in the same areas of Denmark we saw people with immigrant backgrounds who were then fully integrated and took part in Danish society and the Danish values that we have just mentioned are based on the Christian cultural heritage, then perhaps one could discuss how big a problem it was. But it's not like that. The fact is that there are more and more areas of Denmark where ethnic Danes, I had almost said, cannot rediscover the Denmark that they would like to be able to rediscover. This is a huge problem, which is why I would like to say to the Prime Minister: I believe that 17 out of the 25 ghetto areas on the so-called ghetto list are characterised by the fact that there are approximately 2 000 people. 60,000 residents. Average is 62%. of the residents of non-Western background. And if these people have not embraced the Danish values, but in reality live in the parallel societies, which we also saw uncovered in TV 2's documentary • The mosques behind the veil in the spring, then we face a huge challenge in terms of maintaining Denmark as a Christian country.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122135207	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122135209	Well, I fully agree that we are facing some challenges, but I also believe that, for the sake of completeness, we should have the nuance to begin with, that in these areas there are also some of those with a different ethnic background who have taken our values to heart, who are doing their job, who care that their children learn something at school, who have a dream that their children may have to move out and stand on their own feet, so just to nuance it. But I have long meant and also took initiatives when I was Prime Minister last time that we have to have a more accurate approach to some of these residential areas. And it is not because I have something against people of other ethnic origin and in any way think that people should be judged by their ethnicity, but it is an indicator of some things. We know that we have areas in Denmark, and I think I have used the term, where some kind of hole has been struck in the Danish map, and not isolated, because there are many people with different ethnic backgrounds, but because overall it sits in some residential areas where unemployment is massively higher than you see elsewhere, where the rate of crime can be higher, where adults have nothing to stand up to, where children do not get a proper start in life. This must be taken seriously, and we intend to do so. Now my red lamp is blinking, but I'm gonna be able to say something more in a minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122135339	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122135340	Thank you. I also said in my previous speech that if in these areas it had happened that people had embraced the Danish values and so on, then it was probably an easier problem to understand. But the fact is that although there are, of course, people mentioned by the Prime Minister, who are model breakers and who show the way out of the ghetto, I almost said, it seems that the trend is that it is becoming a bigger and bigger problem as the years go by. And that's what I think is so worrying. One might ask whether the scarf is a symbol or what it is an expression of, but it is clear that one does it when one among other things. see the cover on Danmarks Radio in relation to the situation in Brøndby Strand, where a woman tells that her 9-year-old daughter wears scarf like her cousins, her mother and grandmother. This is something that Laila has chosen for herself, as has been said in connection with the cover-up. And when such a 9-year-old girl has chosen to pull a scarf around her head and go to school, where we know from experience that it means that one has a great risk of starting to isolate oneself, that one begins to avoid coming to birthdays for children, that swimming lessons become of another caliber, then there are some basic things here that we have to face as a huge problem, as a huge challenge for Danish society. I hope that I can take up the comments made by the Prime Minister here today on this, as an expression of the fact that it is something that the government and, at least, the Prime Minister, also as Prime Minister of a future government, will take deeply, deeply seriously and that he will work with us to do something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122135515	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122135516	In other words, it can be taken seriously that we want to crack down on radicalised environments. You can take it very seriously that we want to fight, including the positive fight that needs to be fought to ensure cohesion in this society, and there are things that worry me. Some of this has been mentioned this weekend, and not all of this has to do with the question of ethnicity, but it has, because we risk being polarised, so the chance to build a future bridge is getting smaller and smaller. I'm gonna take that really, really seriously. I'm gonna take it really, really seriously. But it has to be in a balance where we strike down on those who do not want, and at the same time have an open and warm hand in relation to those who would like, because there are many of them, and I know many of them too. That is why it has to be a balanced approach. But a fight against radicalised environments and a hard hand in relation to that, I am 100% behind it. And I look forward to continuing to work together on this. We have taken some steps, including in the financial agreement that has just been made, in order to counteract, we can say, some of the reasons, because we cannot escape the fact that this is a problem that has not grown up over a night. In other words, this is due to an historic situation in which the decisions needed to be taken historically have not been taken in order to have sufficient control over immigration. Therefore, part of the answer is of course also to find there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122135652	Thank you for the question that has been closed. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122135701	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I must confess that I actually followed the national meeting of the Left this weekend. I was watching TV 2 News every once in a while. It was a long speech by the Prime Minister. It was something about the Liberal Alliance and that everything had to be fixed. Peace be to it. Something else and more interesting happened that didn't get much attention at that national meeting. It is that the Left presented its party accounts. You can see in that batch record that a record was set. Congratulations to the Prime Minister and the Left. It was a collection record. In fact, the Left received almost 20 million last year. kr. in private contributions. It was a huge advance and it makes the Left the largest recipient of private contributions. When we look at the party accounts that have been presented, we can see who the biggest supporters are. It's all those who have paid over 20,000 kroner. They're listed on the back side. But we do not see how much they support. We can, for example. see that Mærsk has paid more than 20,000 kroner. to the PM's party, but we can't see how much. I think the Prime Minister and I can agree that there is a big difference between whether you get DKK 20,001. or 2 million kr. or something much larger. Then maybe there'll be one of those easy questions that the Prime Minister doesn't want to answer, even if he can. But what I would like to hear is whether the Prime Minister could not tell us how much the Left has received in party support from Denmark's largest company, A.P. Møller - Mærsk A/S.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122135910	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122135912	I can't tell you. I just have no idea. I know there's a difference of 20,000 kroner. 20 million kr. And all those numbers that are being mentioned. One is greater than the other, but where else is the difference? I don't see any difference. It's like that on the edge of what I have to answer here. But now that we have such a nice question, I just want to say that our party is built up in the way that we have an economic committee that is in arm's length from me. I know a hundred percent overall, which amount has come in. I am not aware of the amount that has come from some specific contributors. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. But thank you for the great praise, which is a sign that there is huge support in real life for the party I represent. I'm glad and proud of that. Well, I'm glad and proud of that. I'm not ashamed of it. But there is, of course, an indication that you can buy yourself for influence. It must be because you go and think so yourself that you ask that question. Could you buy Enhedslisten for an amount or what? What is hiding behind the question? I just want to say that we are pursuing the policy we are pursuing. If anyone wants to support it, we say thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122140023	Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122140024	Why am I asking this? Why? I do, as long as the Prime Minister's party has been involved in making a number of lucrative agreements for A.P. Møller - Færsk. That is, for example, the case. Bank package II, on which Danske Bank's main shareholder has made billions. It is the North Sea Agreement which taxes oil far too low and which, moreover, is in the process of new negotiations on where to threaten even lower taxes. And when election campaigns are getting very, very expensive and more and more money is coming in and private contributions are getting bigger and more and then you sit with the Prime Minister's party and negotiate taxation for the contributors, then it's an interesting consumer information, not just that how much therefore I just ask without trying to insinuate or anything else: can we know how much, for example. A.P. Møller - Mærsk has given the Left party support?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122140144	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122140145	In any case, there is no way to find out from the government. Now we are in a question time for me as Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister's Office does not have such information, and we do not, because a law has been passed in the Folketing, and therefore we have the same access to information as Mrs Pernille Skipper herself. Moreover, it is not true that the accounts were published in connection with the national meeting, because it was published this summer. There is then a reporter who didn't notice until the weekend, but it's fair enough, it doesn't matter, but it's been on the Internet since the summer. It is on the verge of asking me these questions, because I am not here as party chairman of the Left; I am here as prime minister. And I'm glad to see that there is at least one party in the Left that complies with the laws adopted in the Folketing. I assume that the other parties in the country will do the same, and I am pleased with that. And the government has no plans to change the laws.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122140237	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122140239	That, of course, is why it is interesting to ask. After all, one can hide behind the fact that one simply complies with the law, but the Prime Minister is in charge of a government that has the opportunity to make the laws so that citizens have the opportunity to follow not only what the Left receives in party support, but also what all the other parties receive in party support. In a democracy and a country like Denmark, where one consistently prides oneself on being among the least corrupt, it is fair enough when money goes from companies over to parties that help to make decisions, such as: It means extremely lucrative agreements for the very same companies that citizens and voters who have to cross are allowed to keep track of what is going on and how much money goes back and forth. Then you can be a little offended that the question is on the verge of everything else, uh, well, what I'm sorry about! Isn't that just common, common openness in a democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122140358	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122140359	Well, I'm not offended at all. I mean, I almost liked the praise we received and all the support there was for the party I represent. So I'm not offended at all. There has been legislation in the Danish Parliament which regulates the whole issue of party support and which probably also expresses democracy has a lot of facets and balances to ensure that the parties are equal. Whether there are parties supported by the business community or parties supported by the trade union movement offensively, i.e. whether it is one or the other, there is such equality in the rules that apply, so there is room for all parties in Denmark. That, then, is the legislation that I consider to be fundamentally sensible. I do not deny that anything needs to be adjusted. In relation to my own party, it will be the case at all times that we will follow the country's legislation, and we will do the same in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122140500	Thank you. When Mr. Anders Samuelsen apostates, sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122140523	Thank you. The article that most impressed me last week came from a network magazine called Zetland, which described the increasing frustration among top scientists in the climate area around the world. It was a very remarkable article, and I would like to share it with you all afterwards. It describes that more and more of our most acclaimed climate scientists in pure frustration quit their jobs or keep a low profile. Either they get other jobs or become activists from a feeling of being completely ignored by politicians like us and political spaces such as the Danish Parliament and other parliaments around the world. So when you read this article, you get an insight into the extreme frustration of those people who know the most about what is going on when it comes to climate issues in the world today. I just want to quote a small paragraph where one of these top researchers tells me that he repeatedly dreams the same dream, and he describes it like this: "Sometimes I dream that I'm out walking and discovering a remote house on fire. In one of the upper windows there are children calling for help. I'll call the firefighters. They're not coming because some crazy person keeps telling them it's a false alarm. The situation is getting more and more desperate, but I can't convince them to move out. And I can't wake up from that nightmare. ▪ What the whole article says is that, on the one hand, we have all these facts about the state of the Earth, and on the other hand, there are politicians who do not, at least in the eyes of researchers, take a serious view of it. So my question to the Prime Minister is: is the fact that we have to build on when we make climate policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122140740	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122140741	Yeah, I think that's a good idea, even when we're doing our climate policy. There you can also see, if you look at the facts, that Denmark is really, really good at. We're world champions in wind, 42 percent. of our electricity comes from wind. With the agreements we have made on Friday, we are making electricity cheaper, which in a global context is good, because some of the things that need to be done if we are to make the green transition are that we need more electricity. We are very good at energy efficiency, and we must keep this position, which I attach great importance to. So yes, we must build on facts, of course we must, and the more global society will also build on facts, the easier it will all be. Because it is also a fact that Denmark cannot solve this climate challenge alone. If we insisted on doing so alone, without being in any kind of agreement with other countries, we would never get there, because then we would kill our competitiveness before we got that far.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122140904	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122140905	I am glad that the Prime Minister agrees that we must build our policy on facts. So here we are talking about Nobel Prize winners, here we are talking about the most acclaimed climate scientists in the world who agree that if we do not make a significant effort in the climate field, then the planet tips. What I noticed when the Prime Minister said that he was happy that he had had a financial law passed last week and congratulations on that was that among the things the Prime Minister was happy about not once was mentioned climate. When we pass New Year's, it'll be cheaper to drive a petrol truck. On the other hand, it will be more expensive to drive an electric car. We see that more pesticides are allowed to be discharged into drinking water. So where in the Finance Act can we see that the government has an ambitious climate policy? I'd like to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122141010	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122141012	Well, you can, among other things. see in the agreements we made about PRS, which is part of the Finance Act, where we now take responsibility for financing a green conversion with offshore wind turbines, with Krieger's Flak and with a number of other measures, and in a way that is less competitive for our industry, and which therefore also means "and that is, I think, the long-term positive effect, regardless of how it might be felt in some calculations that electricity is becoming cheaper." For the key to making the green switch was in fact also in the question, as it was suggested here with the electric cars that more is going to electricity. So when we have made a package on Friday, where we both have a high level of ambition in terms of coastal offshore wind turbines and relieve our business community, so that our business community can also compete with countries where energy is black and cheap, and then at the same time can do so in a way where electricity becomes cheaper, which is the prerequisite for us to make the green transition, then it is in isolation a really, very good agreement in terms of making our contribution to ensuring a green transition. That is also why the world wants to look at us, and there was also great interest in the initiatives taken in Denmark for energy efficiency and conversion etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122141143	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122141144	There is no doubt that the alternative looks more seriously at climate challenges than in this case the government, but praises that among other things. The Conservatives have been inside and have set a significant footprint. That is how I read it, at least, with regard to the coastal wind turbines and have also maintained the ambitions in relation to CO2 and I hope that the green agenda is even more pronounced and clear in the new government base. Now comes my last question, and that comes from tradition of faith from our members. First a little fact: 75%. of the people on cash benefits have other challenges than unemployment, for example. a disability or illness, and out of the 33 000 citizens affected by the ceiling on cash benefits, there are only approx. 7,000, estimated to be job-ready. This is according to the Ministry of Employment. So the question from Members is: how will the Prime Minister prevent sick people from becoming homeless and poverty as a consequence of the ceiling on cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122141252	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122141252-2	Yes, I got that question in another bottle last time I was here for Question Time, but I won't just stand here and refer to what I said last time. I just want to say that we have also built our public services on a system that we can stand by with a ceiling on cash benefits. I am not pretending that it is in any way near being a dance on roses to be covered by the ceiling on cash benefits, but we would like to stand up to the goal of having a life within it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122141325	Thank you for the question. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122141333	I would also like to thank you for the agreements reached in broad cooperation last week. This is, on the one hand, the agreement that guarantees long-term funding for the green transition, in which we are certainly also pleased that the government was persuaded to stand by the agreements that had been made in the past, among other things. on coastal wind turbines, on the one hand, and the agreement on a property assessment system, which is a first step on the road to the battle with the tax freeze, which then waits a little longer. On the other hand, however, I should like to express my regret at the fact that the government, when it is doing so well with the broad cooperation, does not think it was worth trying to establish a broad cooperation on the Finance Act. It seems that this was not the case, and that is, despite the fact that, on behalf of my party at least, I can say that we have been constructive all the way through. After all, it was the government that tied it up with the 2025 negotiations. It was so effectively blocked by the Liberal Alliance, which did not want it to slip, and now we are in a different situation. I can only wonder why, if you are so fond of broad cooperation, you decide, when you make a budget law, that you will be walled in by a narrow majority. After all, the Prime Minister has in common with the newly elected President of the United States, Donald Trump, that he is worth following on Twitter, because it is as if that is what the heart is full of that comes along. But then the comparison may end, because it may become a known colorless from the Prime Minister's side compared with the American President. But I just noticed yesterday that the Prime Minister had been at an event with Lizette Risgaard and LO, and here the Prime Minister wrote: Thank you for a responsible collaboration on major challenges; together we create the jobs of the future through investment in people. After all, the Prime Minister must have forgotten what the Finance Act was all about, because priority has been given to reducing the tax on cars once again, freezing the ground debt and, on the other hand, extending the savings round of all the educational institutions in the country, which are taking place, another year, so that they now round 10%. in the economy of all the country's educational institutions. What's it like to invest in people? And why in the world does one not seek broad cooperation on some of what the heart may in fact be full of, namely the desire to create the jobs of the future rather than just survive another weekend in government?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122141556	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122141558	Thank you for that and thank you for the description of the colorlessness of the comparison; I actually take that as a compliment. It may be to misunderstand it, but I choose to do so. Well, it may be that sir. Morten Østergaard himself is in fact explaining why Mr. Morten Østergaard's party was not part of that agreement. Well, it's a responsible deal that's made. And yes, there is a re-prioritisation contribution, also in that part of the public sector, which has been excluded from the requirement for efficiency, which has been historic in other areas. Let me mention health where there has historically been such a 2-percent productivity requirement. It is so expanded and, by the way, helps to create some of the space that makes it possible to prioritise and which, among other things, is. It also makes it possible to give priority to specific objectives, including: with pools for vocational schools and other. I also have to quietly draw attention to the plan that the government has put forward, a plan for a stronger Denmark, which is not, of course, a plan that I have in any way abandoned as such, because it describes a level of ambition. And, of course, it has set out very clearly to invest a billion dollars for a boost in competence, because that is what will be needed. Then we are asked about the event yesterday, and that is exactly what it is about. After all, in the years to come we will need to have a special focus on the part of education that is about educating people who have either never received an education or who have received an education that they cannot maintain an employment in the long run, because development is just moving fast. It is also necessary to finance this increase in competence, and I do not really need to lecture Mr Beazley. Morten Østergaard as chairman of a financially responsible party about finding his balance, and it expresses this Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122141753	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122141755	I find it regrettable that the government, with its overall economic policy, has chosen to propose that we should invest less in education in the future than we do now. And that is a net consideration of both the Finance Act and the 2025 Plan. I find that very regrettable. But then let us address another area in which there has traditionally been broad cooperation, namely European policy. I do not think I am revealing any secret by saying that the parties that are now discussing whether to form a government together have seen something different on that issue, not just a year ago, when there was a referendum that was looked at differently, but, of course, generally in the approach. Therefore, I would like to ask you today, in a clear statement from the Prime Minister, whether we can expect broad cooperation on European policy to continue and that the new government will honour the agreement that exists that European policy is anchored across the middle or whether it is some of the things that are for sale in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122141856	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122141858	Can I not say overall that I have an ambition for broad cooperation? I welcome the fact that the trade union movement's own net media has very clearly allocated us the basic record of block politics, that is, the government for which I am Prime Minister now. And when it comes from that edge, I do not think there is any reason in the context to question the validity of their analysis. So we have a bottom record in block policy, and I am actually proud of that. So I have no other ambition than to cooperate broadly on the proper content. In relation to agreements, I can say quite clearly that I am not going to be at the head of a government which does not honour agreements that have been concluded. Well, that goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122141948	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122141951	But let us see in a year's time whether the Prime Minister still has the will for broad cooperation, even if one comes into a situation where one party only needs to be used to form a majority. We will, of course, follow this very closely, and I can say that as always we are to be found in the work clothes. But I will use the last question for what my heart is full of today, and it is therefore a despair that the government is not aware of its responsibility in relation to the refugee situation. So, what is it that drives the government to talk for months about the need to get the external borders under control so that it does not help to remedy the situation in Greece, which is a humanitarian disaster and which is also a disaster, when matters are not dealt with and the refugees just pile up in too small camps? It is therefore the case that Denmark, like a number of other EU countries at present. We are not in favour of the agreement, which is actually the main reason why we have seen more controllable conditions. I do not understand that you want to spend all your energy marching cops up at the Danish border and all sorts of other things, but when something really makes a difference, you look up the track and you don't deliver the goods. Frankly, I think it's too bad, and the government should pull itself together.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122142059	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122142100	Thank you, but now it is a very, very distorted representation of the state of things. This is how Denmark delivers. We always deliver, we deliver to EASO, and if you go in and see what contributions we make and offer, in terms of what Denmark's size is, we always deliver. However, we also have a concern for our staff, which is why it is true that there are employees who have been withdrawn from Greece because they could not at the moment vouch for their safety, and that is how it has to be. In other words, otherwise I do not know what kind of contributions we have to send out if we do not give a damn if the conditions under which people are going to operate are in order. We stand by our contribution, which is why we also know in EASO, and it has been known that ever since we withdrew the people I think it was in June, it has become news in today's newspaper; there is apparently a little delay in the process • that it has been clearly stated that the employees are standing there again when the prerequisites for them to stand there have been provided. And if we think that a country such as Denmark should do something different from what we are doing today in order to create the conditions, then we are also sensitive to it. So I will not have sitting on me and sitting in Denmark that we do not deliver what we have promised. We stand up, but promises must also be kept the other way, and the conditions must be met. We cannot send people to places where basic security is not in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122142227	Thank you for the question. Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122142234	Thank you. I can understand in the papers and in Mr. Anders Samuelsen that we have had a choice, that is that the voters have been heard again over the weekend, perhaps only at the annual meeting of the Left. It was certainly a very, very quick choice, so fast that I did not realize that I apparently participated in it. I also think there are quite a lot of Danes who do not sense that they have participated in anything either. This is the very thing about asking the Danes, whom I would like to ask at the PM's office. As far as I remember, the Danes have not been asked whether they support raising the pensionable age, cutting down on the SU, cutting down on the primary school and canceling the green transition; whether they support the idea that this is the right way for Denmark, which the government has put forward in its 2025 plan. Now I do not know what a new three-clover government can agree on, and that is why it is a little funny about this Question Time today. But it would be nice if the Prime Minister would answer whether it would also be the policy of the new government to increase the retirement age, cut down on the primary school, cut down on the SU and increase Denmark's CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20161122142338	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122142340	First, there is a false description of what is my party's and government's policy, and then I have to answer whether it is the same policy that we want to pursue. It just doesn't make any sense. Who is canceling the green switch? My government hasn't cancelled any green switch. My government has just been working on an agreement on Friday to continue the green transition, just as I can say with pride in my voice that my party has been in government for a considerable part of all the years in which Denmark has been engaged in a green transition. It is such a myth that has arisen in the left that you have a patent for goodness, that you have a patent for windmills, that you have a patent for all sorts of things. This is nonsense, because when you look at the history of Denmark, you can see what decisions have been made and which have led Denmark to be the country Denmark is today. So a few days ago we have been sitting and making an agreement, and that is also what has been set aside for the forward-looking. And that also applies to all the other things that were, like, in that question. Then I can say that the government I am Prime Minister and it will also apply to a possible new government, I may be Prime Minister of the European Union, will respect the general rule of democracy, that if major changes have not been announced before elections, they will only be implemented later. And if there are settlement bonds, they are respected. So, in relation to what is being asked about the SU, you can already see in what my government has put forward that we are proposing some changes to the SU system which lie after the Danes have had the opportunity to vote again. And the only thing that could, so to speak, move it was if, within the framework of the conciliation that exists, we reached a compromise common conclusion that we are putting this into effect sooner. So Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr needs to take it really, really calmly.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122142542	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122142543	I am thinking that perhaps it is more the Prime Minister who should take it quite calmly, because I am, in fact, reproducing what the government presented in its 2025 plan, among other things. that CO2 by 2020 instead of 40%. It was government action. It was the government that wanted to abolish the coastal mills. I am so glad that we are some others in the Folketing who could fight them through. But peace be to it. I can sense that I am not getting an answer as to whether it is a good idea to ask the Danes or not. I thought so. I have another question for the Prime Minister, because I listened to the Prime Minister's speech at the National Assembly of the Left, where he spoke about his son Bergur and the opportunities that his generation gets compared to some at the same age, namely LøkkeFonden's boys, who do not get quite the same opportunities, even though in reality they have the same starting point in a primary school. I agree with the Prime Minister on this, and so I would also like to ask the Prime Minister if he can explain to me the connection with the fact that, at the same time, the Finance Act reduces support for those who have received the least education, namely those who go to the production schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122142644	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122142645	It is true that a financial agreement has been drawn up in which the conditions you have when you are in production school are matched up, you can say, with what you know from the SU. But may I not first sign for, not only that the speech was listened to it it was so nice that there is a basic consensus, because I think that at some point we will have to try to bring this consensus to something other than a discussion only about money. In any international comparison, Denmark is therefore both a rich and prosperous country with an enlarged welfare society. You can always discuss whether we are adjusting down in the wrong places and we have different starting points. But in every comparison we use really, very many resources. We have an expensive school system. Despite that, and that is actually what I wanted to do with that message, we are therefore faced with the painful dilemma that some people are falling through. Is it just a resource thing? I don't think so. I don't think it's just a resource thing. And if we always resort to that automatic answer, that the good one is the one who wants to spend another penny, and that the evil one is the one who wants to spend a penny less, then we'll never move in these debates. I think we need to have a completely different approach to these big questions about how to ensure that everyone is included in the winning team of globalisation, and it cannot just be a discussion about what percentage of consumption we have in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122142811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122142812	But if we look at the many young people who are in the production schools, then the Prime Minister also says in his speech at the National Assembly of the Left that they have the most difficulty. And then it is absurd that we should have a financial law in which we are once again cutting back on their support. I agree that this is not just about money, but precisely the young people who are in the production schools are facing a huge challenge of just getting into education. When we have then confronted the Left with that, the Prime Minister's own party colleague, Mrs Anni Matthiesen, has said that these people can just take a loan at the bank to get through their education. Is it also the Prime Minister's message to these young boys from the LøkkeFonden that they can just take a bank loan in addition to the fact that no banks will lend them money? What does it take for them to get a job in the future of Denmark, when we now know that there will be a lot of unskilled people by 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122142904	The Prime Minister has to answer, and there has to be a little quiet in the Chamber so that we can all hear the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122142912	Thank you. Yeah, it's gotta be one of them. That is why there is a link beyond these attacks on me, which is how we use society's resources in such a way that growth and jobs and jobs are also created. I know that in SF rhetoric the solution to all questions is just to spend more money, but you have to find a balance. And one of the balances is to make sure that there are framework conditions so that there are some jobs. Then I think that another part of the answer should be found in questions of organisation and responsibility. Because when we look at what is happening to the young people I have met, who have not learned enough in primary school, and where I think it is not a resource issue, but that it is something else that has gone wrong, then we also see afterwards that the responsibility is just like getting rid of them, and that it is difficult to find that transition from a primary school course that has not been successful and beyond in youth education. That's where we lose kids on the floor. We are also using unnecessary resources by making young people start over and over and defeat defeat. If I were to give just one answer to what we have to do, I think that is one of the things we need to look at, because the solution cannot just be to send more money, even if it would be nice but it requires you to have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122143034	Thank you. And then Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen has dropped out, Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122143044	Today there are the following reviews: Tax Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill no. L 92 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the valuation of land, the law on municipal property taxes and the law on financial activities. Bill No. L 93 (Proposal for a Law amending the Registration Tax Act. The titles of the cases notified will appear at www. Parliamentstidende.dk (cf. above). We'll just wait a minute with the vote. It may have come as a surprise to people that there wasn't another question, so we're just waiting a minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122143212	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122143232	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 2 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (S, ALT, RV and SF) and can be voted on. Everyone has voted. The vote will end. In favour of 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 4 and 5, tabled and joined by the same minority, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122143353	We move on to the next item on the agenda, but in order to move forward, there must be more calm in the Chamber. The debate is open. First of all, it is Mrs Mette Gjerskov, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122143446	It is not every day that we have the pleasure of discussing development policy and the major overall framework for Danish development policy here in the Parliamentary Chamber. So I would also like to take this opportunity to stress how important it is for the Social Democrats to have a good and solid development policy, that development aid is not reduced and that Denmark takes its responsibility in the world. Our starting point is, of course, that we must try to counteract inequalities in the world. We must ensure sustainability, we must avoid tax havens and, at all events, we must contribute to a world where people have hopes of a future in their own country. When we see the bill, which, of course, has the long title: the law amending the law on international development cooperation, I can say that we have a very, very short legislative proposal. But that changes some fundamental, fundamental things. What is just my challenge I must say clearly to the government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs is that many of the things that I and probably representatives of other parties in the Folketing, but also organisations and NGOs out there, have been preoccupied with, are actually not something that is stated in the bill. It's in the notes to the bill. That is why it is quite important that we get a good dialogue on this bill. There are some specific points in Section 5 that I would like to discuss with the Minister. This is the thing about not wanting to count multilaterally and bilaterally. However, it is important for us to have a dialogue on what we do then to ensure that we actually get to where we want to go, so that we also strengthen international organisations and create joint, multilateral development aid. We have had a dialogue with the Minister about this, and I really do not think that we are far apart on this issue. But as soon as we have a bill, we have to be very clear about it. I would also like to say that the Foreign Minister proposes that we should have a new Development Policy Council, which is a merger of two other councils. It gets smaller and needs to be more effective, but it also needs to have much more work. It is, in fact, a principle that we can fundamentally support. But I'm just having a little trouble reading from the law's remarks whether this council will be appointed in the same way as it is now. That is over in the remarks. The draft law only deals with how many people should sit there. The comments state how the members of this council are appointed. Concern has been expressed, and this is perhaps not entirely unfounded, for the government to identify a little too many of the friends instead of getting a broad-based council which can provide varied advice to the Minister. We then see in the reply from the Ministry that far along the way one will do as now, but I need a firm answer as to whether it will be the same as now, that is to say that one has a duty to choose from among the people who are set. A question has also been raised which I really think is relevant: if you now take two advices, put them together, give them bigger tasks and there are fewer people, so they will have to work much more, then I think you should seriously consider whether they should also have a fee. It should not be so much because people have to be gilded, but as compensation for lost earnings. Otherwise, it is the organisations that are appointed from that will pay. It should not be the case that a development organization must refrain from pointing out a superb person solely for economic reasons. In the hearing the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has written something about the fact that you can always talk about this with the Personnel Department, but I think that may be a rather sluggish answer. In Section 9, there is the whole question of the yield from the IFU. If there's a surplus coming from any of this cooperation, the question is whether any of it can come back. Wow, where time goes fast. I would just like to say that there are some places where I think we could talk seriously about openness, but overall we are relatively positive about the proposal and look forward to the second reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122144029	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. There were no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122144043	Thank you. From the Danish People's Party's point of view, we agree that the bill here contributes to modernising the law on international development cooperation in order to contribute best to the implementation of Denmark's international development work. Adjusting the law now to take account of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the 17 agreed global objectives is in line with developments and can hardly cause any stumbling block in the House. With regard to the adjustment of the format of the annual 4-year plan for expenditure frameworks, I think that this is a wish for, among other things. to facilitate clarity. That always sounds fascinating, but we would point out from the DF that this must not be at the expense of transparency. In the future process, we would like to know more about the effects of the format adjustment described, because there are many of us who would like to follow closely how the tax money is actually spent. The proposed change to the framework of the Investment Fund for cooperation with the business community in the investments of the Fund is a desire to loosen the limits of the Fund's room for manoeuvre, which DF agrees with. As a result, the draft law contains a desire to develop a dividend policy for the Development Fund in order to be able to pay any dividends to the State. This refers to the State ownership policy, which expresses that it is healthy and natural for state companies to pay dividends. That may be true in many cases, but the question is whether a dividend policy for a development fund in particular might have a side effect. I am thinking here of whether a yield policy for the Development Fund might have the unintended effect that, for that reason alone, the Fund would be reluctant to enter difficult markets, which were the very argument for linking the investment mandate from the business community. So I would also like to look forward to further clarification on the issue of dividend policy. The amendment of the Development Policy Council, including the closure of the Grant Committee, as well as the Council's new procedures, sees DF as a total debureaucratisation of the area, and DF sees in the proposal a potential for more efficient administration. DF basically supports the proposed proposal, but, as mentioned above, expects that the question of adjusting the format of the 4-year plan and the issue of dividend policy will be discussed in greater detail.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122144300	There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122144315	Thank you. For the Left, it is crucial that there is a common thread in our development policy. We need to focus our development policy on those areas where Denmark has special interests or positions of strength. This is an important conclusion in the Taksøe-Jensen report, and it is also part of the focus of the new development policy strategy. At the same time, we must ensure that our development aid follows in time and that the regulatory framework is the right one to meet the challenges facing development aid. That is actually the whole idea, and that is why we are also standing here and discussing it. There are a number of elements in this draft law. Firstly, the UN's new world goals will be part of the legal basis for Denmark's development aid activities. We very much welcome this from the Left. It is important, now that we have created these concrete new world goals, that they should, of course, also be the focal point of everything we do on the development policy stage. This is, of course, one of the things that I very much welcome, because it is no secret that, alongside the fact that we have the debate in this Chamber, we also have a political debate in something that, I hope, can end up being some sort of circle of agreement. There is the fact that I think it could be a really strong signal when we hope to have this agreement made, and when we are hopefully so broad a united majority of the parties of the Folketing that are behind the agreement that we will then also sit down together and say what we can make a difference in concrete terms. Because with the 0.7%. We are, of course, one of the very few countries in the world that are complying with the minimum demand of the United Nations, and we are therefore one of the absolutely superliga countries which can make a huge difference where we are now concentrating on it. So, quite briefly, we on the Left are warmly supportive of this. We see this as a pioneering, new attempt to ensure that Danish development aid remains in the superliga too, but where we also concentrate our efforts on the political priorities that we now have, and therefore we can warmly support it. I welcome the Conservative People's Party, which unfortunately cannot be present in the Chamber today, and say that they also support the government's proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122144541	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122144546	I'd like to ask Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, where it is stated in the law that Denmark must continue to be in the superliga, as they call those who pay more than 0.7 per cent. of GNP to the world's poorest countries. First of all, I can't find it. And secondly, what was called Denmark during the periods when we were up to 1%. And really was in the super league? Is it not such a kind of flattening of the terms if 0.7%, which is the minimum of the United Nations, is to be called superliga? I mean, it's like bragging with borrowed feathers. It should be obvious that all countries were at that level. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122144624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122144626	No, I am not, and I think it is funny that the Enhedslisten as a party is very concerned that we respect much more than the minimum requirements of the UN, because when we discuss NATO, where we have signed that we will meet at least 2%. of the GDP in the defence budget, the Enhedslisten thinks that it is quite right that we should be at 1.15%. like what we're doing now, according to the last official figures. So I have to say that the position of the Left is, and I have said this repeatedly, that we want to be on the 0.7. There are about a handful of countries in the world who do, and instead of saying that if we were at 0.8 then we reformed the whole world, so no, we really didn't. Where we wanted to reform the world, if we got the rest of the rich Western European countries, the other countries that could, if they wanted, come up with the 0.7. Then we could make a difference, then we could do something that would really reform the world, instead of just small Denmark starting to go beyond what is the minimum requirements of the UN, especially in view of the fact that, as I said, we are only one of a handful of countries doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122144734	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122144736	For Enhedslisten, there is a world different from using 2%. of GNP or to have the goal of going out into the world and killing people with bombers and things and then having a modest target of 0.7%. of GNP to help the world's poorest people develop. I would like the two figures to be reversed, because I think that would give a much, much better and much more peaceful, much more balanced and well-developed world. For my sake, you could take that money from the military and move to development aid. And 0.7%. is not, of course, on a Danish scale, one in large numbers, that is what we have to say. We've been up to 1.12%. at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122144815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122144817	Well, I acknowledge that there is political disagreement. That is why I am a member of the Left, and probably for that reason too. Christian Juhl is a member of the Enhedslisten. I think it is important that we also have a functional defence, because this goes hand in hand with the development aid we have. Take, for example, the conflict with the Islamic State. If we did not also have a military capability there, then we could not go in and provide development aid at the same time. Things will have to go together from time to time, not least when we are dealing with such nasty regimes as the Islamic State, so I do not want to change my point of view on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122144850	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122144854	So now the rapporteur must come down from the high horse, right? I think it is equally ridiculous for colleagues in this Chamber to dismiss it by saying that it is like NATO. No, it's not like NATO. Development aid is about giving people the hope of a future in their own country. We are faced with a record number of refugees in the world. We have experienced them coming to our country in droves, and at the same time the government chooses to save on exactly the area that could give those people the hope of being able to stay in their own country. So I do not think that can be answered with some polemical comment about NATO. This is a real problem, there are refugees out there in the world, and we have to prevent these flows of refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122144944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122144945	I understand why Mrs Mette Gjerskov does not want to talk about the NATO requirement, because what the Social Democrats have apparently forgotten is that the Wales Summit signed that now we wanted to get closer to the 2% in terms of military expenditure, and it seems that everything has been forgotten about that since one came into opposition. We are not forgetting the agreements we are making, nor have we forgotten that we want to stick to the 0.7%, because that is what we have said to the UN that we will do. That is also exactly what the UN is asking the countries to do at the very least, and that is why we want to stick to it. Then I'm just gonna have to come up with the facts again. Let us say that we started to upgrade our numbers to 0.8 or 0.9 per cent, or whatever the Social Democratic Party wants. I do not know what the Social Democrats want, and therefore it could be interesting in the same sentence to ask: what does the Social Democrats think after an election? How high is this going to count up? But let us now say that the Social Democracy wanted to rise to 0.8 or 0.9 per cent when Mrs Mette Gjerskov is about to respond to that. So it is still the case that it would not reform the world as much as if we had the rest of the world up to the 0.7% which must be the target.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122145052	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122145055	I think it is a little sloppy to keep talking about NATO when we have a debate about development policy. I would like to discuss NATO, but I would also like to discuss what we have on the agenda, and that is development policy. We're actually trying to find a tone here because we're actually working really hard together to find a strategy for how we do it. But that does not mean that we agree on the size of development aid, and it is now the case that there are a lot of people on the run who need to see a hope for a future in their own country just a little hope and that is what development aid provides, and that is what the Left is cutting down on. It's just right, so we'll get it on record.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122145136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122145137	The problem was that, unfortunately, we did not get a record of what the Social Democrats would answer to the question I asked. That is where the problem lies. I am then told that you will not answer that question. That is fair enough, and then the puzzling people can hear that it is evident that we are not using 0.7 per cent. But what do you want? What do you want? I guess you can start throwing yourself around with statements that it's gonna be lame, or I don't know what. Frankly, I don't think it is. On the contrary, I think it is double standards when we start accusing ourselves of spending too little. Then at least you have to be able to answer what you want to use yourself. I'm afraid we didn't get smarter.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122145212	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122145222	In the world, you're very unequal. Inequality is one of the most important problems we have in the world. Whatever the efforts made in recent years, it is still the case that a number of countries have inequality as the main problem. I also believe that a law on international development cooperation should contain an objective that it is both poverty and inequality that we must combat. Denmark is doing a lot. Denmark can do much more if there is political will to do so. I would like to point out some of the things I have noticed in the draft law. I note that there is nothing about the very fine principle of coherence. This means that no other legislation can weaken this legislation. That is the rule in the European Union, and a lot can be said about the European Union, both good and bad, but it can be said that they have a principle that is very good, and that should also be included in our legislation. Nor does the legislation say that we agree that at least 0.7%. That is what we want to contribute to development aid. So there is no reason why the rapporteur of the Left should jump on the high horse as much as he did to the Social Democrat rapporteur. At least 0.7% should stand there as a guarantee that that is what we are going for. Why isn't it in the bill? I am not going to interfere with the strategy, because I have got one over my nose to make a public statement about the negotiations. According to the Minister, this must not be done in spite of the fact that he himself does so in time and prematurely. So I'll try to stick to the bill. I think it is a good idea to implement the UN's new world goals into legislation. It's actually a really, really good idea. These are the objectives that will guide our activities in the coming years. However, it is problematic to lift the requirement that the four-year plan for spending frameworks should set out both bilateral and multilateral development activities. It makes sense that IFU can promote industrial development in the developing countries without necessarily taking place in conjunction with Danish companies. However, it must be made clear that the IFU's activities must be carried out on a socially, ethically and climate-friendly basis. Similarly, investments should be made responsibly in line with the UN guidelines on human rights and professions. And then I believe that we should demand transparency in the activities of the IFU, so that the Public Service Act also applies to the activities of the IFU. It is quite problematic when we cannot gain insight. Then it is problematic to merge the Development Policy Council with 15 members and the Grant Committee with 8 members into a new Development Policy Council with only 9 members. This will weaken the influence of outsiders and strengthen the already central position of the Ministry. I do not think that is appropriate, and I think that is going to be too narrow a basis for putting it on. This means that some of the capacities that are currently participating in the two bodies will not be available here. I find this problematic, because we have a very, very large hinterland that has knowledge and commitment in this area and that can contribute with their knowledge and experience. If we are to have only one body, i.e. the Council, I suggest that we find at least a number very close to the 23 members who were previously involved in the Council and the Committee. Then it is problematic that the comments on the draft law should end with the previous principle of broad representation from, among others. trade unions, popular organisations, interest groups and research institutions. Why should it no longer be said that this is the purpose? Is it supposed to be made narrower and more controlled by the Ministry, or what? In fact, it opens up a scenario in which the government currently in office can at any time appoint peers to the Development Policy Council without regard to the Council's professional or popular balance. Legislation must guarantee a minimum of representatives from civil society and research on the appointment of members to this kind of council if we are to make this balance. All the other things I hope we will be discussing during the second and third readings, and I also hope that we can have room to correct the errors and shortcomings that I have pointed out here. Moreover, it should not be a secret that Enhedslisten supports the old target of the previous government of 1%. of GDP for development aid plus 1⁄2%. for environmental development. At least that is something we can afford, and that objective could be a fine common goal if we could be responsive to it by the present government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122145655	We shall now move on to a brief remark by Mr Beazley. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122145659	Thank you. I understand, sir. Christian Juhl thinks I should get off the high horse. I can, however, reveal that I have never ever learned how to ride, and it would go very wrong if I came up with one of these. But I do not quite understand that Enhedslisten does not care a bit more about what I do, namely what will happen if God forbid it should come a red government. So what percentage are we talking about? If there is an agreement between the Enhedslisten and the Social Democratic Party that if you point to Mrs Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister, you get 1%. Again, or what? Because I have repeatedly tried to get an answer from various social democrats, and I have not had it yet. That is why I assume that if Enhedslisten thinks it is not an important topic, it must be because Enhedslisten has got some kind of agreement. And it might be interesting to hear what the deal is.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122145750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122145753	Now I just had time to tell Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, what my and Enhedslisten's goals are for development aid. That is what we are going for, and any percentage or, for that matter, the percentage that we can get closer to that goal, we will go along with it. And we will try to maintain the Radicals, the Social Democrats, the SF and others that if we get a majority, we must have a government basis similar to what we had in 2011, which stated that the target is 1%. The Enhedslisten has not agreed any government basis with a government we do not yet know. It's something that goes without saying. Nor have we agreed anything with the current government on either. That's the way it is. But, of course, as soon as we get a chance to do so, we will take this opportunity to promote our point of view. That is why I mentioned the point of view. At least it shouldn't be a secret what we're going for.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122145839	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122145841	But then the answer is exactly what I said, namely that there is no answer, so that we still do not know what the Social Democrats are going for. Therefore, I don't understand why Enhedslisten just so knocks it off and says it's not something that's interesting to talk about. Because, on the one hand, if you think that the current government is spending too little, then you have to worry about what it is you want from the possible alternative to that government. Therefore, I do not understand why Enhedslisten will not talk about it and just say that we should now come down from the high horse. I think there are a lot of people who are curious about knowing what the alternative is instead of just listening to someone who is angry.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122145917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122145918	Now the rapporteur of the Left is not going to talk about it. He can practice on the high Jutland horse up in Randers, so he could sense what it's like to have a little view. At the moment, we are standing with our backs on the wall because we have a government that has cut development aid from 0.86%. of GDP at 0.7 per cent. Maybe it'll end up at 0.71%, and then I'll cheer over the last of the bloody blood. But that is the reality, and that is what we are trying to prevent at the moment. Once we have prevented it and arrived at 0.86%. Once again, we take the step and make a plan if we can get a majority in favour of it at all. I guess it's much more realistic than the chatter and warm air that the Left has in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122150001	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Mette Bock, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122150011	Thank you. Now I don't know how much view sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen has. My party is in a place where we have had a very good view for a long time. We are currently in a situation where we are jointly looking at whether we can meet to formulate a paradigm shift in the way we manage Danish development aid. These are some very exciting and very good discussions. You could say that this bill might be just early enough in relation to it. On the other hand, the draft law envisages, on the one hand, some corrections to the new objectives that have been set, and, on the other hand, simplification of the structure of development aid appropriations. We think the consequences are natural. And when it comes to the way in which we have organised our work on specific financial advice and implementation, we think it sounds like a very good idea. I heard Enhedslisten's rapporteur be concerned about the merger that has been proposed and suggest that if you were to have only one body, that would be plus the two, so that you could have a council of 23 members. I personally have very, very bad experiences with advice or bodies that contain so many people at once. But let us try to have a discussion on this when we get a little further in the process. I think we should be open to all good proposals. What this really is about is ensuring that both advice and coinage take place on as solid a basis as possible. So in the Liberal Alliance we are positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122150149	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122150153	I would just like to hear from Mrs Mette Bock whether it is not sensible to have at least such a wide range of grant committees and development policy councils that the professionalism of both business organisations, trade unions and development aid NGOs can bring their views to light when it comes to deciding on millions of appropriations. When it is no longer even clear in the comments, one can get a little nervous that it should be focused on the fact that it is the ministry. Is it LA's view that the Ministry should have greater influence at the expense of the popular organisations?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122150238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122150239	After all, neither popular organisations nor a ministry are actually those who ultimately sit at the top of the table. It is, in fact, the Foreign Minister and the people who are behind the legislation that underlies it. I fully agree that we must, of course, ensure that we get solid professionalism into things, and that is also why I started my speech by saying that perhaps this is just early enough, given that we are now gathering around a new development policy strategy. In my opinion, a strategy must first be drawn up and then the councils, bodies and boards, and whatever else, must be organized so that the strategy that has been agreed is given the best support. So I don't really disagree. In other words, it is not because one has to remove some professionalism, but one has to ensure that the necessary professionalism in relation to the strategy one decides is there. And that is where we will have to discuss how to proceed in concrete terms. I'm open to discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122150338	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122150339	Mrs Mette Bock is right that the Foreign Minister is probably the minister who has the greatest influence on her own budget and can do many more things than many other ministers can. But we are really talking about the granting authorities when we talk about the Development Policy Council and the Grant Committee. It is not the Minister who will then have to consider what to do. You must say yes or no to projects that go very far and also have a very large economic scope. That is why it is important that there is a broad and well-founded professional basis for taking a position in these committees and committees.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122150415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122150416	After all, I do not disagree at all with Mr. Christian Juhl in, but at the same time as ensuring professionalism, we also have to say openly that there is also a non-always clear concern. In other words, the representatives who sit in bodies of this type do not always have the same interests or priorities in relation to what they think is necessary. So let us try to ensure professionalism and, at the same time, ensure that we have something that can act effectively, but that is to say, with the safeguarding of professional competence. And I'm just saying that my experience is that compared to a table where 23 people sit around, it can be very slow.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122150459	Thank you to Mrs Mette Bock. We move on to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122150513	Thank you very much. It was a major step for the world's countries that the 17 new world goals were adopted to commit both the developing countries and the industrialised countries. With the 17 new world goals, we got an overall compass from which to conduct our future policy. The alternative therefore fully agrees with the government when it wants to update the purpose of the law, adding a reference to the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the 17 World Goals. In the alternative, we also agree with the new provisions for IFU, which repeal the legal requirement for IFU to cooperate with Danish companies. This allows IFU to enter markets in the developing countries which Danish companies do not yet find profitable and thus help these countries to develop their markets. We also agree with the clarification of the State's ability to provide State guarantees to the IFU and the possibility that the IFU will be able to pay dividends to the State. However, it is not clear from the proposed dividend policy for the IFU whether the dividends to be returned to the State will be returned to development aid. The alternative considers that it should be stated in the draft law and that it should be clarified that any proceeds from the IFU should be used for development assistance. This is one of the issues that I would like us to discuss more at second reading of the legislative proposal. We do not believe that IFU should be exempted from the Public Act. We would have liked this opportunity to create more transparency in the work of the IFU. Of course, it must be possible for the IFU to protect business secrets, but this does not mean that the IFU cannot be more detailed in its de-reporting and reporting on how the IFU and investment projects address current and potential negative human rights effects, as well as on how positive a contribution is made to achieving the fund's objectives, which should also be done according to the UN Guidelines on Human Rights and Occupations. The alternative is worrying that, in our view, the draft law in some areas reduces transparency in development aid and in other areas does not make use of the possibility of improving transparency. Transparency of legislation and administration is crucial in democracy, and politically speaking, we must not be afraid that the people, journalists and civil society will be able to look at our doings and the barn in the cards, because this will help to keep us politicians up on our toes and make us make even better policies. Transparency is therefore very important in development policy too, especially if we are to succeed in securing greater popular support for it. It is absolutely necessary that it be possible for the people to see how we give priority to development funds. That is why we are also opposed to the draft law proposing that the government should no longer specifically set out bilateral and multilateral development activities. This is not appropriate because some of the transparency of an already very large and sometimes opaque budget is lost. It is good administrative practice for people and civil society to be able to look at policy makers over their shoulders, and this will be more difficult if we no longer clarify what needs to be done for bilateral and multilateral development activities. The fact that certain development activities combine both bilateral and multilateral activities can be pointed out. We welcome the fact that the Committee on Budgets will be merged with the Development Policy Council. It may re-establish a link between advice on overall strategic issues and concrete funding, but it is, as several consultation answers point out, and as several rapporteurs have also pointed out, problematic that in future only nine members will be available instead of 15. And it is being further problematicalized by the fact that the government in the bill will not specify how the weighting in the selection of members of the Development Policy Council will be, as has been the practice in the past. If we are to ensure the best possible input into development policy, both civil society, companies, professional organisations and researchers should be widely represented in the Development Policy Council, and with the two changes proposed by the government, we do not believe that this will be possible, but of course that is something that we can talk about at second reading. In the past, there were to be representatives of professional organisations, companies, researchers and popular organisations. In conclusion, I would like to say that the alternative is in favour of 1%. of our GNP in development aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122151046	Thank you to the rapporteur. No brief comments have been asked, so we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122151058	Thank you. After all, it is no secret that the Radical Left would have liked to see a completely different level of ambition for Danish development aid, which the government has, at record speed, reduced to unrecognizability. Many poor people in the world have suffered. This has affected some of the most needy refugees in the neighbourhood, and it has created strong scratches in the lacquer of Danish development aid and the reputation we have in many organisations in many countries, both in our bilateral and multilateral cooperation. It is difficult for me today to understand that, even if you want to cut, you will cut with the brutality and speed with which you have done it, and thereby you have also damaged Danish interests. But that should not prevent us from trying to build bridges, in relation to how we then provide Danish development aid and the development aid that we, after all, agree to provide even though next year it will only be 0.7 per cent. There, radically speaking, we are in favour of a large number of the proposals made by the government for amendments to this law. The first is to change the purpose description to the UN's 17 sustainability targets. This is an obvious idea and absolutely crucial, we believe, for us to be able to cooperate with other countries and to make the right division of labour internationally, which will also be the basis of the development policy strategy that is being negotiated at the moment, and of course also for our ability to plan long-term ahead of 2030. We must remember that the world economy is about to double over the next 15 years. We expect 3 billion more middle-class citizens to be on the planet. It will have to be sustainable development that drives the development of prosperity if it is also to be a development that can benefit our children and grandchildren on all parts of the world. Another point in the proposal seems to me to be a very good idea, namely to provide a little more and more flexible framework for IFU's work, including cooperation with foreign companies, and a slightly more continuous way of guaranteeing the payment of dividends. We are a little concerned that it will be possible for the Minister to confirm that when he gets up there, the board itself will be able to determine the profits, in line with the tradition we have from other public companies. To put it bluntly, we would like to make sure that a finance minister who sits a late evening on a parliamentary basis, who may feel less about development aid, could be tempted to snatch 200 million. kr. extra. Therefore, we could also read this proposal as a form of protection if we agree that it is the board itself that determines its dividend policy. I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs can confirm that this is the way it should be thought about. A third proposal is what several speakers have said, namely that the Development Policy Council and the Committee on Budgets should be brought together. We think that is a good idea too. We could also see that you could let a few more people into that advisory room. But the most important thing, of course, is that they are the right people. So you could think about that. Because I think it is important to find a solution in which everyone is safe. But having so many different advisory bodies inside has also created, I think I can say as one of the great friends of aid, a rather heavy process and also a little bit of ambiguity about what it is actually for priorities that are at the top. That is why it makes good sense, at least I think, to bring it together for one consultative body. The last element of the draft law is then this: we no longer have to divide up bilateral and multilateral reporting. As I read in the draft law, this is justified by the fact that in practice it is often both. I don't really know if that's an explanation enough. I am currently seeing a comparative cut in multilateral appropriations compared with bilateral appropriations. That is why I do not know whether it makes sense that we do not have some kind of opportunity, at least as ordinary citizens and members of parliament, to follow a little in the direction of weight, even though I recognise that things are often linked and that bilateral efforts are used to strengthen multilateral and vice versa. But there is still some way, I think, in that we can keep up with how much of the Danish aid we provide through the multilateral organisations. Perhaps that is not the point of the proposal, but I cannot quite see that through the comments that have been made. So that is the second thing I would like to ask the Foreign Minister if he had the opportunity to clarify a little. So, can one still go in and see how much Denmark gives on the multilateral framework to the UNDP, to the UNHCR, to the EU and all of them? Or what exactly is it that you want to change in the way you settle it today? It could be exciting to clarify. In any case, I would like to ask you this question, because overall we will take a positive view of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122151609	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122151628	Like other parties, we are extremely critical of the cuts in development aid that the government has made and believe that it is quite disastrous that Denmark is now heading down the ladder from the past to be a leading developing country of development policy. It is sad for our general foreign policy, including for the poor in the world. After all, a number of parties are negotiating a development policy strategy at the moment, which is decoupled by the financial framework on which, as you know, we disagree, and it can be said that this draft law is, in a certain sense, also part of the strategy discussion, and it is, of course, difficult, I think, to imagine that we will finally adopt this draft law before we have finished drafting the new strategy. There are things that play together there. There are things in this bill that are very sensible, for example. to involve the 17 world goals directly. It's very natural that you do it. We also think that the changes around the IFU are sensible. As far as the IFU's dividend policy is concerned, I have at least understood that this is something that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will have to discuss with the board of the IFU, and then a policy must be established on that basis. I assume that we can have a discussion with the Foreign Minister about this when we deal with this proposal in committee. With regard to these structural changes, which we are talking about, where the Development Policy Council is being put together with the Committee on Budgets with fewer members, it is our approach that it may be sensible enough to merge, but, as others have said, we need to consider whether it is sensible to cut as much of the number of Members as has actually been done. The problem is that we may lose some of the professional skills that are actually outside the ministry, and I do not think it is wise that we should at least get the impression that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must now manage this much more strongly without involving the NGO environment that is there, and that is why we need to have a discussion about it, first of all in order to maintain the professional skills that exist in the world outside the ministry. Regarding the fact that we no longer have to explain specifically what is bilaterally and multilaterally, we are also a little concerned about this. We must also have explained in more detail what the background is for this. There may be some good arguments in favour of this, but at least we want us to sort out in a sense what the relationship between bilateral and multilateral is like. In fact, it is also an issue that will play a part in relation to the strategy that we are currently debating. So we have such an approach one might say positive approach to the bill. There are things that we would like to change, and I expect that we will be able to work on it when we send it to the committee for second reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122152026	Thank you to the rapporteur. No more rapporteurs have asked to speak, so I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122152038	I would like to start by thanking you for a good debate. We also have a tradition of having this in the circle of development policy rapporteurs, a good and open debate on many issues. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen finally referred to the ongoing discussion about creating a new humanitarian development policy strategy. I shall leave that for today, because it is not the one we are discussing, just as it is not the question of whether we want to spend 0.7 or 0.71 or a higher percentage on development aid. What we need to discuss is such a framework for what kind of procedural way we work with development aid, what sort of objectives we have overall, and how do we gradually get through them? This is to have a legal basis for development policy work, which also reflects the real world we have at the moment. And with the adoption of the World Goals, Denmark and the rest of the world community have adopted 17 clear objectives in which direction we want to go. What should the world look like by 2030 if we fulfilled our ambitions, without extreme poverty, without hunger, with access to healthcare, education, equality between boys and girls, etc., so that we can have sustainable growth and sustainable development? I think that the global objectives are extremely ambitious, and that gives us an opportunity, but also an obligation, to rethink our own development policy compass, and that is what we are doing with the strategy and with the law on international development work here today. We must ensure that we continue to have up-to-date legislation, and I believe there are three significant changes. One is, as everyone has supported, that the 2030 objective and the Agenda on Sustainable Development, the global goals in general as a central focal point, are confirmed for Danish development work. Then there is the Investment Fund for Developing Countries, which is now given a more up-to-date and flexible mandate, where IFU is linked to the requirement that all actions be in collaboration with the Danish business community. This means that they can also make a greater contribution to just some of the foundations which, according to the Danish model, are actually shooting up around the world and where IFU has proven to be able with experience, competence and knowledge to create a synergy of development, business opportunities and improvements for people around developing countries. Finally, as several speakers have said, there is the external advice of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to be reorganised. It is the case today that we have two advices where external forces advise the Minister. Sir. Christian Juhl puts them together and says there are 8 in one and 15 in the other, so that is 23 external advisors. Now the 4 members of the Grant Committee are employed at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so there are only 4 external and 15, and you can say that when you have 4 external on one committee and you have 15 in the other, 9 is probably a fairly good compromise compared to how the average could look forward. What we have tried to do is to say that we tie up the direct representation of organisations, so that if you have a competence that you have been set on the basis of, but change jobs, you can actually still stay there, because today it is the case that you sit in an organizational seat, and if you do something else, you have to resign from the council. It is also the fact that one sits as an organisation designation, which means that today there is no fee, because according to the guidelines of the Modernisation Authority, we only have the opportunity to honor people who sit there in the form of their so-called own expertise and not as a representative of an organisation. But that's one of the things we can try to talk about, that's how we're going to do it in the future. With regard to some of the specific discussions that have taken place, I would like to say that I am pleased that so many people have welcomed the draft law. Some of the issues raised are the separation of multilateral and bilateral issues. This is the case, for example. the forthcoming proposal for a country programme, in other words a bilateral programme, for Palestine, which the government has proposed should be approx. 400 million kr., distributed over 8 different organizations, including the multilateral ones. So the inventory that has traditionally been made would stand as a bilateral project, but the money will be implemented through multilateral organisations. Therefore, the division that has been at the forefront of section 6.3 on development aid is no longer up-to-date in terms of how we work. With regard to what is planned to be added to the individual country years of commitment appropriations, the four-year projection country by country and the four-year projection for each of the multilateral organisations we directly support will still be lost. So you want, for example. could go in and see what we expect to give the World Food Programme for the next 4 years. The same applies to UNDP, UNFPA, etc. etc., that is what we want to give the next four years. But that set-up about how much goes through one and not through the other, that's a census thing, there isn't. On the other hand, we stick to what is called openaid.dk, where there is openness, where you can look in and see what actually happens with development aid, where the money goes and how it is distributed. So that openness and transparency and transparency we are sticking to forward-looking. In relation to IFU, someone has been very positive, and I am very, very happy about that, and there are two things that have been discussed in particular. One has been the question of profit policy. It is the case that the government's dividend policy envisages that the Board of Directors nominates to the general meeting what the profits should be. The level we have talked about has been about half the profits, max. 50 million kr. This means that, on the basis of the results of the year, it is the Board of Directors who evaluates what has been. I just want to remind you of what has been done so far. So far, it has been done that the profits of the year have remained in the IFU, and then at times it has been politically chosen to say that we are now making a distribution of some of the profits that have been made, and then suddenly quite large sums of money have been withdrawn from the IFU. By doing it this way, the IFU ensures a longer-term opportunity to have planning. To Mrs Sandbæk's question about what the money is going to do, I would like to say that you might be able to create some kind of envelope system and say that this money is going to do this, but with what the government's Finance Act is proposing, that is, that development aid should be 0.7 per cent. If we are to achieve this, then it will just mean that money will come from one particular place, and less money will come from another place. So the question is whether you have to get all the money through the big treasury and then distribute it from there, or whether you have to have small envelopes that go in different places. But let's take a look. I hope that it will not be the IFU's dividend policy that will separate us from an otherwise broad consensus. Another thing, like several, among others. Mrs Sandbæk also mentioned the issue of access to documents and public access to the IFU. Today, the IFU is, in fact, fully covered by public access and access to documents, except in areas where there are commercial interests and therefore a need to protect the business models of investment partners. When it comes to their investments in general, their personnel policy, etc., there is access to documents when it comes to the environmental impact of their investments, there is an additional possibility of review. And IFU has been fully audited by the National Audit Office in Denmark, so that way there is also coverage for the various things that may be. Then there were some more questions to which I would like to jump forward. If you look at the comments of the bill, you will see on page 4 that there is exactly what it says about the dividend policy, i.e. that it is healthy and natural that there is profit, but that the yield of the year must not be greater than the yield proposed or accepted by the board. That is already stated in the comments. It is also the case that we have tried to look at the composition of the council. I clearly have the view that the council must have a composition so that it has a professional breadth in order to be able to deliver the work there is. But what is our experience is that the Committee on Budgets has benefited from having a greater density, a greater, you might say, continuity, because it requires a different piece of work than perhaps a little more general advice when it comes to these specific cases. So by adding these two together, it's our opinion that we get better advice by having a selection on these about 9 people. By the way, I have to correct one thing. It is always the case that, although the Committee on Budgets has proposed something, it is ultimately the minister in office who decides at all times how the money is to be spent. In other words, the Minister can trump the grant committee and either approve a project it has rejected or reject a project it has approved. That is why a minister is ultimately responsible for this. However, I have always felt that the advice I have received from the current Committee on Appropriations has been of such high professional quality that there has been no reason to question it. There are certainly several questions which I either did not take note of or which need to be answered in greater detail. I very much look forward to giving this during the committee procedure, and I hope that we will be able to clarify the outstanding issues so that we can have a broad vote and broad support among the parliamentary parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122153104	Thank you very much, Minister. We have brief comments to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122153108	Thank you. I would also like to say that if the Minister does not follow the Committee on Budgets, I would like to hear about it in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security it would be very useful if we then discussed it there. As far as the IFU is concerned, could we not agree that it should be clearly stated that activities are carried out on a social, ethically sound and climate-friendly basis and that it is the UN guidelines on human rights and professions that apply to its work? Now I'm trying to ask, because I think it should be a place where we could meet. The second is whether we could not clarify in the comments on the Committee on Budgets that it should be widely professionally composed, as previously stated. It is surely also a place where we could get it right together, without going into total disagreement about it, so that trade unions and popular organisations and interest groups and research institutions are still available to help with the important work. As far as the number of people sitting in committee is concerned, I would like to hear from the Minister whether we could not agree that there should be just as many outsiders in the future, because then we could find a common figure there, no matter which calculator we use.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122153225	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122153227	No, I think we only use the same calculator, but it depends on what numbers you put into it. If we just look at the outside, it won't be those 23, as Mr. Christian Juhl said. With regard to the IFU, I do not, in fact, disagree with any of what Mr. Christian Juhl says, but Mr. Christian Juhl makes it sound as if it is not the basis on which IFU invests today. I believe, of course, that the IFU's task is to meet the criteria that the government has set up for the development line that must be in our investments. And it is investments that live up to being environmentally sustainable, which must respect social rights, which respect workers' rights, which must be within the framework of the general development policy strategy that we have. It is the case that the comments at the top of page 5, first column, say that they are the same interest groups and organisations as hitherto, among others. from civil society, industry, trade union movement, universities and research institutions, which will be able to nominate members of the council to signal the interest in getting the same breadth. I myself think that this is a very clear signal as to what width you want and that you want to include many parts of civil society's interests in the Council's work and, therefore, in the advice of the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122153343	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122153344	In other words, we agree that we can write both into the law or in the comments. I'm glad. Apart from that, I did not hear how many external Members we can come up with, in order to balance the imbalance that remains, by moving from two to one Council. I did not hear the figure, but I think we should ensure that there is at least the same width and the same number from outside as before.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122153411	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122153412	Well, we don't agree on that. Well, I don't think it should necessarily be the same number as in the past. I believe that it is two different tasks that have been carried out and that, when the task of an authorising committee is to be able to be effectively carried out in the future, it is not necessarily better to have more to do with the task. But I have felt that there has been a discrepancy between the rather more general advice in the Development Policy Council and the very specific advice in the Grant Committee. By merging them, I mean you get the right level by adding to the average of the two and not the sum of the two.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122153447	Then it's Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122153449	Thank you. I agree with the Minister that this has been a good and constructive debate and I am pleased that the Minister actually takes up some of the things I have raised. I was so surprised when the rapporteur from the Left wanted to talk about NATO instead of talking about the government's proposals, so I thought it might be that you did not want to defend it at all? But the Minister did, and I am very pleased about that. I have a prayer: could the Minister not go into the think box to find a solution to that with the broad composition of that council? Basically, this is what this is all about, and the Minister knows that we have full confidence in this minister. But the prime ministers come up with things and things that new ministers come up with, and we do not know what the future holds, and then we have signed a bill, and then there is a strange minister who thinks something strange. That is basically what this is all about, and the Minister knows that too, I think. So could we not ask the Minister to go into the think box to find a solution so that far into the future we can confidently expect the government's changes?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122153544	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122153546	I almost heard this as a social democratic guarantee to work to ensure that whatever happens, I can continue as Foreign Minister. It can have many perspectives. I am not sure that everyone in the Social Democratic Party signals exactly the same support on a handsign thrown today right behind Mrs Mette Frederiksen. So I'd like to say, of course, we're in a think box. We are doing this in order to deal with all the comments that have been made. I have the approach that development work works best if it takes place on the basis of a broad political platform. That is why we are going into the think box without giving any promises as to what the thinking box will produce. But in this area too, we can go into the think box.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122153631	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122153633	I look forward to hearing the results of the work of the thinkbox in this area. I have something else I want to talk about. This openness thing isn't something we've taken out of thin air. DIIS says that untying the IFU should also mean greater openness. Then the answer from the Minister is that the business part of the IFU is completely outside the public law, but we work with the public law every day. It is based on a concrete assessment, which is not to exclude a whole area. Then the minister couldn't look into that case too?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122153717	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122153719	It's not like I have anything against public opinion. I think it's hard to find someone who's against it immediately. But public opinion is only good if it is not harmful to other things we would like to have. After all, there are a number of collaborators who require full confidentiality in order to invest with the IFU. They also do so in order to examine some things in advance of an investment so that they do not run the risk of competitors on the market taking the investment in advance. Therefore, I would just like to say that no matter how much we think about it together, we must recognise that there is a limit to how much openness we can allow in if we are to have private partners working with the IFU.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122153801	Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122153803	Thank you. What led me to ask a question to the Minister was whether money could be taken out of the IFU and used for anything other than development aid. It may require a written reply if the Secretary of State is unable to do so on the spine. But as I remember the rules, you can't just stop the money you put in from development aid and count as development aid when you put them into IFU and I think we do that with the money we put into IFU in the Danish Treasury without withdrawing it from development aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122153841	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122153841-2	See, now Martin Lidegaard is on his way with something that could become a very interesting principle. Because if the surpluses that are being drawn out are to be deducted from development aid, then the surplus that remains has to be added to development aid. It won't be today. It is the contribution into the IFU that is considered as part of development aid. The additional annual surplus generates, so to speak, additional development work without counting in the accounts. So if you take out some of the surplus, you do not change the amount of development aid either, because that contribution is the capital injection. If we were to withdraw capital from the IFU or, for that matter, the capital base from another of our capital administrations, the World Bank or anything else, that would mean withdrawing it from development aid. But as long as it's a surplus we're talking about, you don't put it on top of it. Nor do you withdraw if you have a dividend policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122153940	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122153941	So let me ask you another way: so that the Foreign Minister can guarantee that the practice proposed here will be one hundred per cent in accordance with OECD guidelines?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122153951	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122153952	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122153955	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. So the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. No one objects, so I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122154010	I should like to point out that the Minister for Foreign Affairs cannot be present at the debate, and that is why the Minister for Defence is acting Minister. The debate is open. Sir. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122154051	NATO is pursuing an open door policy which basically means that the countries that meet the requirements can become members. That is a good thing, because we have an interest in a strong NATO, which can be a stabilising factor in what can, moreover, safely be described as a troubled world. Montenegro is a country with 650,000 inhabitants and a relatively small defence of 2,000 men. But that does not mean that it is an insignificant country. The importance of the location in the 1990s so martyred the Balkans and, not least, the coastline of the Mediterranean is so interesting that Russia has sought to place fleet support points there, which has been rejected. Russia has also opposed Montenegro's accession to NATO. With the accession of Montenegro, a signal is also sent to Moscow that it is not possible to veto the countries with which the alliance will expand. It must also be said that NATO has gradually marked the Balkans as its sphere of interest. One might wonder at the Russian anger, partly because NATO is a defence alliance and partly because Montenegro is by no means bordering on Russia. If Montenegro chooses to attack Russia, then they must move across two countries before they reach the Russian border, which is a step forward. Social democracy supports Montenegro's accession to NATO.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122154245	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122154301	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party, we regard the ratification of Montenegro's accession to NATO as a matter of form, and we support Montenegro's accession.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122154314	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122154327	I very much agree with both the Social Democrat rapporteur and the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, but I do not want to be quite as brief as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party did. There is no doubt that we must take care of Denmark, both at national and international level. We live in an unstable world and we know that unfortunately there are forces out there that do not want us well. I think most people have noticed that new winds blow in many places, and that is precisely why it is important that we stick to the alliances that we know work, that we strengthen our joint bulwark against aggression and attacks. The security we enjoy here in Denmark cannot be thought out by other states in striving for too. NATO has ensured peace and stability for more than half a century and remains one of the most important international institutions in international conflict management. It is therefore only gratifying that we can now include a new Member, Montenegro, who has long expressed a heartfelt desire to become a member of the alliance and, above all, enjoy the security policy assurances that come with such membership. What we have to recognise is that with the new twisting of the rhetoric, but also with concrete actions on the part of Russia, it is important that we also support NATO and NATO Member States in those countries which want to be part of the free world and who also want to be part of the defence bulwark that can be done against the rhetoric and actions of the Russian side. That is why I do not understand how Russia can believe that, with threats and harsh rhetoric, they can force NATO Member States not to admit a country like Montenegro to a country that wants to become a member. And that is why I think it is important for all of us in this Chamber to say that we support this hopefully so that we can send out a clear signal that threats cannot be made by the Russian side in relation to NATO accepting individual countries that want to be part of the alliance. I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that, unfortunately, they cannot be here today, but that they also support the government's proposal that Montenegro be admitted to NATO.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122154555	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122154610	Of course, individual countries must be given the opportunity to assess and decide for themselves which international cooperation they wish to participate in as long as they comply with the guidelines. At the same time, I must say that it is not our position in the Enhedsliste that more NATO is a guarantee of security in Europe. It is, of course, both about the size of NATO and, above all, about the military armament in Europe, for which much has been said here after the election of Trump and which we have also seen the Danish Government support. I simply do not believe that it is in Denmark's interest to put our foreign policy so firmly on NATO, and I would much rather have a line of priority for the United Nations and Nordic cooperation. As far as the question of Montenegro's accession is concerned, I have noted that there are at least a number of reports which indicate that there are quite major corruption problems in Montenegro and, of course, in this context we should also consider what kind of countries we are obliging Denmark to go to war for. I think that there are already some very clear challenges in NATO cooperation with Turkey, where we can see how human rights and democracy are not being respected. Journalists are being imprisoned, politicians are being imprisoned, and in this way it can be said that we really cannot see Turkey as a democracy. Nevertheless, the emphasis on democratic values does not have any impact on their place in NATO, even though it is stated in NATO's guidelines. So I think it calls for a little reflection. If NATO means something about democratic values, then it should also be taken into account here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122154815	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Mette Bock, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122154824	At a ceremony in Brussels on 19 May this year, the Protocol on Montenegro's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty was signed by representatives of all members of NATO, in the presence of representatives of Montenegro. On behalf of Denmark, the Minister for Foreign Affairs signed, subject to ratification. That is the ratification we are currently doing. On the part of the Liberal Alliance, we welcome Montenegro into the alliance supported by the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122154853	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122154901	Thank you. In the alternative, we are critical of the turn taken by the NATO Alliance. In fact, we believe that NATO, with the militaristic intervention in both Libya and Afghanistan and operations in Somalia and Iraq, has gone from a defence alliance to an attack alliance, and we are concerned about the militarisation of NATO. A defense alliance does not bomb itself for more security and security in the world. That is why we believe, basically, that NATO's purpose should be restored to the defence of the territories we are alone. Having said that, we fully support Montenegro's accession. We do not believe that the accession of Montenegro stands in the way of NATO cooperation taking a different direction from that which it currently has. After all, as has been said before, Russia has condemned the accession of Montenegro to NATO and is opposed to any form of expansion. They see it as a provocation. It does not mean that we should say no to Montenegro, because of course Russia should not decide that. But it is also important, of course, that we on the part of NATO constantly stress why it is that we admit a country and thus have a dialogue with them with whom it can be difficult to have a dialogue. But we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122155018	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122155029	After all, the accession of Montenegro to NATO is a debate that has been going on for many years, based on very, very thorough assessments, both in terms of defence and politics, and it is of course also an important signal that, to the extent that NATO is able to fulfil its capabilities and commitments, and to the extent that NATO countries are prepared to do so, it is up to each country to be able to take that decision to join NATO, as is the case with the European Union. Given the thorough work that has been done in NATO, it is quite natural that Denmark should, of course, support Montenegro's accession to NATO. At least that is what we are doing from a radical point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122155111	I do not know whether it is because the negotiations have been a little deadlocked over on the ministerial benches, but it has certainly become louder lately. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122155125	We can support this proposal for Montenegro to join NATO. Many excellent things have been said here from the platform, but let me just mention one more thing. And that is that we must remember that Montenegro was involved in a very brutal and violent civil war in the former Yugoslavia not so many years ago and that one of the ways of ending the terrible hatred that arose between the various republics of the former Yugoslavia has actually been integration into Western cooperation in various areas. This is the case with the European Union, which has been of great importance to Croatia and Slovenia and, moreover, also to Serbia, which has been forced to relax a little in its tough line towards Kosovo, for example. I think this is also part of a process in which the Balkans are in fact recovering, not least because of close cooperation with the rest of Europe, and NATO cooperation is, in my view, part of that. That is also one of the reasons why I think we should support Montenegro becoming a member of NATO.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122155244	Thank you to the rapporteur. No more rapporteurs have asked to speak, so that is the Minister for Defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122155253	I would like to thank you for the many speeches that support ratification. At the NATO Foreign Minister's meeting on 19 May this year, the official accession protocol for Montenegro's membership of NATO was signed. Montenegro will have full membership once the membership agreement has been ratified in all NATO member states. There are several good reasons why Denmark should ratify Montenegro's accession to NATO. Montenegro is able to promote the principles of the Treaty and, with its membership of NATO, will contribute to the security of the North Atlantic area. NATO and Denmark therefore have a clear interest in bringing Montenegro into our alliance. Montenegro has a clear desire for Euro-Atlantic integration and has confirmed this in words and deeds by working towards close ties with NATO since its independence in 2006. Montenegro shall have, inter alia: launched extensive reform work and has continuously contributed to NATO's concrete operations, for example in Afghanistan, where Montenegro has contributed to NATO-led efforts since 2010. We must reward that from NATO. In particular, Montenegro has made good progress on the reform agenda since the Wales Summit in September 2014, including through reform of the judicial system and increased civil society involvement. As highlighted in NATO's progress reports, Montenegro has played a constructive role in regional cooperation in the Western Balkans and has taken important political steps to find solutions to its bilateral outstanding balances with its neighbouring countries. On the domestic political front, a parliamentary election was recently held, characterised by transparency and respect for freedoms. NATO Member States therefore agree that Montenegro has demonstrated enough progress to achieve membership. It is therefore the government's clear position that NATO membership for Montenegro is important to NATO and that Montenegro is ready for NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122155511	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122155515	Thank you. This is actually a bit of a follow-up to some of what Mrs Flyvholm said in her rapporteur's speech, namely about some of the challenges that are also in Montenegro. Is there anything in NATO cooperation that allows us to put pressure on some of the democratic rules that we also stand up for, even though we are concerned with Montenegro?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122155536	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122155537	There is no doubt that there is still a reform work in Montenegro, and we see that they are being taken into NATO, as a further boost to the reforms that they must also make in the future. And when I said before that we believe that enough reforms have been made so that we can now ratify and take them in as a member, then there is also the fact that there is not a hundred percent target.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122155611	No one else wanted to speak. That concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122155632	The debate is open. Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122155646	Thank you to the President, and thank you for last to the Minister, one might say. We have just returned from the Marrakech climate summit, and this is also an obvious opportunity to discuss how some of the challenges we face in the climate area are being put into practice at home. One of the places where we will have to tackle more in the coming years is transport, because it is one of the areas where we still need to crack some of the hard nuts and because it is an area which accounts for a large part of our emissions. So it is important to get to grips with greening the transport. The proposal before us today is a step in that direction. It is simply a matter of the government, in addition, as part of a planning agreement with, among others. My party, the Social Democratic Party, has chosen to say that it wants to introduce a requirement of 0.9%. advanced biofuels in the fuel. That's a really good idea. It helps to meet our EU commitments; it helps to make transport greener; and, of course, it is also our hope that it can help create new jobs, a new technology, in order to produce it here. So we support that demand. We have also said that the first indent, you might say, in terms of creating this greener transport and new jobs, is that you make a mixing requirement. But when the government threw the towel in the ring some time ago and said that it was not expected that the work that lies over at Holstebro, i.e. the Maabjerg Energy Center, we also agreed in a broad circle of parties to say: let's try again; let's see if we can get it realized, because it is an example of 1,000 jobs in an area of Denmark that could use them and on something that is green and that is forward-looking. That is why we are very pleased with the commitment made by the government to try again, in other words to go back and talk a little more to see if we cannot achieve the many jobs. This is a development which the West Jutlanders really need and which they have made a great deal of progress and which, incidentally, is also supported by the European Union. So we warmly support it, and we also hope, of course, that we will come the last step along the road and ensure that Danish jobs come out of this, which is good for the climate as well. Then there is also an element on the control of CO2 Then I have last, but not least promised to greet from the SF, which is unfortunately prevented from being here, and to say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122155938	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122155955	The bill here translates the element on incorporation requirements for biofuels, which was agreed in the summer as part of a major agreement on modernisation of the plan. That agreement was reached between the government and, as the previous rapporteur said, the Socialists, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party. So I don't think I can reveal the big secret when I tell you that we in the Danish People's Party support the bill. Specifically, the draft law is aimed at introducing a legal requirement for the incorporation of 0.9 per cent. advanced biofuels in all fuels for the land transport sector. Thus, the requirement contributes to the overall fulfilment of the so-called "VE' Directive's requirement that by 2020 10% should be achieved. of all fuels in the transport sector be renewable energy. In this context, advanced biofuels are extra attractive because they count double when the 10% requirement is met. must be measured. In the Danish People's Party, we are happy to help find constructive solutions to the demands of the VE directive, and we are therefore also satisfied that we are in the agreement that reaches a good deal of that way. The draft law contains a further element, namely to allow the Minister to introduce rules on penalties for infringements of the so-called MRV regulation. It's about monitoring, reporting and verification of CO2 So, on that basis, I can say that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122160127	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122160137	In the Enhedslisten we also think it is important to work for 10%. renewable energy in the transport sector. After all, the rapporteur mentioned that the Danish People's Party is open to constructive dialogue on this, and in the Enhedslisten we would be happy to take advantage of the renewable energy produced by wind turbines in Denmark. It is sometimes exported quite cheaply abroad and there would make more sense if some of the wind power could be brought into the transport sector. That would count in the 10%. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it was not a more obvious opportunity to look at how we could make a greater social gain out of renewable energy produced in Denmark and which, at some times of the day, is being exported for too cheap a money. In other words, it is a bit grotesque that consumers pay a PRS subsidy, after which it ends up that some of the flow is exported cheaply to Norway. Then it would be better to get more out of it in the transport sector in Denmark. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122160237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122160239	Yes, for a rare time, I agree with Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen on climate policy, namely that we must, of course, make the best use of the power produced with support for wind turbines, instead of being almost given away. It can easily be used to comply with the ten per cent directive on renewable energy, for example. by using the power in the transport sector. This is also why both the Danish People's Party and, as far as I remember, Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's own party is working towards electrification of the railway network, where you can just use some power. Then I would like to say that with this PSO agreement, which was signed last week by a majority of this Parliament, the flow will be 10%. cheaper. It also helps to encourage drivers to choose to buy an electric car rather than a fossil-powered car, i.e. with an internal combustion engine when the fuel they use, namely electricity, is 10%. cheaper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122160338	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122160339	I do not think it will be so automatic if we reduce taxes on ordinary petrol cars. Something could be done much more targeted, and there I think it is a pity that there is no majority that will work more actively for us to have more electric cars in Denmark. For it could be an essential part of the solution, just as it could also be a solution if we had implemented the ideas and plans that are about electrifying more of the railway network. Then it could also be electric buses that could be promoted in different ways. So I hope the rapporteur will continue to work to ensure that we get more electrified by our transport sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122160410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122160412	It is part of the Danish People's Party's policy in this area. But now I am not the transport rapporteur, so I will pass the view on to our transport rapporteur, Mr President. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122160423	Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Thomas Danielsen as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122160433	Thank you for that, President. It was an historic day when, at the end of last week, we reached a broad political agreement to abolish the PSO tax. The agreement provides a great relief for Danish households, and it is one of the greatest reliefs that has ever come for the competitive business community. We are now getting the lowest electricity prices in the EU at the level of Sweden, Norway and Finland, and the PESO solution combines our desire to promote the green transition with a strengthening of competitiveness and increased growth. That is the very cornerstone of green realism. As with the PSO abolition, this bill now shows us that we are highly committed to promoting the green transition. And we are not content to strive out; we are doing something about it. The government wants to implement a mixing requirement, so we go from 0.5 percentage points to 0.9 percent. of advanced biofuels for the transport sector. It is ambitious climate and energy policy. Indeed, the advanced biofuels are among the most sustainable biofuels we have, as they are based on residues and waste. This draft law meets, among other things: The bio-aetanol project in Maabjerg Energy Center, which demands a higher incorporation requirement. We are thus providing a sales guarantee on everything they will be able to produce. The project was politically silent until we got the government. This is another example of our being able to deliver on the green transition and another example of going further than the previous government in the green area. The Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the promotion of the use of renewable energy provides that Member States are obliged to charge at least 10% by 2020. the use of energy for land transport is made up of renewable energy. The implementation of the incorporation requirement will therefore emphasise Denmark's role as a pioneer country for green conversion, and I am proud to represent a party that puts action behind words and delivers on green conversion instead of just talking about it. That's what we did with the PESO solution, and that's what we're doing now. The Left will, of course, vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122160717	There are some brief comments. The first question is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122160723	The rapporteur stresses that action is behind this. I think that within the last year and a half I have received several letters calling for action earlier on the part of the government to be taken in response to the Maabjerg Energy Centre, and there you have been very slow before you come to call for interference with the adoption of this bill. I am very surprised that it is called being action-oriented, because if you really wanted to meet the Maabjerg Energy Center and make an inclusion requirement, then you should have adopted it a year ago. We would then have been in a realistic phase, in that we would have accepted a project which has obtained some EU funding, but on which it has recently emerged that it is very difficult to see a healthy economy. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not true that this project is at a stage where it is very difficult to see who the financial forces are going to be who will invest in such an uncertain business.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122160824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122160826	I welcome Enhedslisten's concern for the Maabjerg Energy Centre and I share the rapporteur's enthusiasm for the project, if that is what the rapporteur says. If I'm gonna go over the history, it's like the previous government handed in a blank piece of paper. After all, there is nothing from the previous government about the Maabjerg Energy Center, despite being busy talking about it. That's why the government hastened to do some preliminary analyses for the Maabjerg Energy Center, some decision-making analyses, so that we could deal with this case. The wish for the Maabjerg Energy Center was that they should be able to meet a mixing requirement of 2.5%, which has only been met under the current government, and that is what we were going to vote on. That is why we have ensured that we promote the possibility of reducing our CO2 so that it is true that there are some economic challenges, and I would like to give an answer to that in my second round, I can see when I look at the President.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122160935	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122160937	I don't think we're gonna get a third round so we can get answers to all of this. I can say that Enhedslisten is therefore not enthusiastic about the Maabjerg Energy Center, but we have been out looking at it, so much care we have had for it, and we have made clear that we do not support it. To this, with the thousands of jobs in the construction phase, I can say that it can be between 700 and 1,000 jobs. So it is not a plant that generates thousands of jobs in the future. With regard to CO2, does the rapporteur not agree that this is being achieved?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122161010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122161012	I can hear that there is a difference between how to talk about jobs, depending on whether they are derived from coastal wind turbines or from the Maabjerg Energy Center. It is of course the case that in the establishment phase it will be approx. One thousand jobs, and in addition it is approx. 1 000 permanent jobs. If they are then converted into annual work, as the rapporteur otherwise likes to do, then at least there are many thousands of years of work. In terms of being able to get an economy in the project, it is a responsibility that lies within the consortium. We have just said, because of our enthusiasm for the project, that now that it has been difficult to find funding, we want to go in and support the opportunities to obtain this funding, and we have two ministers, the Minister for Climate and Energy and the Minister for Business and Growth, who have led an attempt to promote financing opportunities for the Maabjerg Energy Center. This happens because it is very close to our hearts and because we want to expand our head start in the green area.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122161108	The next question is Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122161112	Thank you. I am, of course, very pleased that the rapporteur has also spoken about the Maabjerg Energy Center and is fighting for it, and I am also pleased that the rapporteur sees himself as part of a party that puts action behind the words, so I just need to know if it is right when the inclusion requirement is one half of the premise, if you are to create the 1,000 jobs or thousands, depending on how you do it, in West Jutland, that it is then a precondition that you also find a financing model.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122161142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122161144	After all, the consortium behind the Maabjerg Energy Center has presented a financing model which has proved to be economically fragile. It has, because if the ethanol price makes a relatively small negative turnaround of 10%, it is estimated that the project is not economically viable compared to their own figures. So it is true that it is a prerequisite to make an incorporation requirement of 21⁄2%, which the previous government did not do anything about, but which we are doing now, and then it is clear that the second part of it is the financing part itself, where the consortium must have control of the funding, that is to say, who wants to put his hand on the hot plate when this gets serious. It has been said by the government that we are happy to take the lead in searching for a wall from the Maabjerg Energy Center. If you do not think you can make progress on the financing part yourself, then the government has shown a gesture and said: we would very much like this project, so we are doing what we can to promote better funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122161246	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122161249	I don't know if I think that pointing fingers contributes to anything special. Now, sir. Thomas Danielsen very busy with what the last government did not do and what the present government is doing. I would just like us to agree that a mixing requirement can be good for the climate, but of course it cannot be used for very much in Holstebro in relation to jobs, if you do not get the funding in place too, because then you just end up creating jobs in Germany or in Brazil or one of the other places where they make this biofuel. That is why we said when the current government said that they dropped it with the Maabjerg Energy Center, because it was not profitable: no, let us try again, and that is what the government has received broad political support to investigate. However, I would just like to know whether the rapporteur does not agree that the incorporation requirement will not help in the workplace if we do not also get funding in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122161336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122161338	The government has not said at any time that we are dropping the Maabjerg Energy Center. It is true that Denmark's Green Investment Fund etc. has said that the project is not assessed to be economically viable. That is where we have said: well, then we call on all parties of the Folketing, those who have an interest in promoting this project, to discuss how far one is willing to go. It is gratifying that the government has received a great deal of support in the Folketing in seeking out the financial opportunities, in other words to promote the financial opportunities for the consortium.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122161411	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And the next in line is mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122161419	In the Enhedslisten, we are very much in favour of achieving more renewable energy in the transport sector. After all, we are faced with an EU requirement that we should want to reach 10%. renewable energy by 2020, and then there will probably be some increased demands then. After all, we have seen in the energy conciliation circle this year the announcement that the Minister would not do anything special until, like, you had the contours of what was to happen after 2020. And now we get a bill that relates to a small part of the area. I think it is a pity that we have not dealt more actively with how we get more electricity into the transport sector. There are some unexploited possibilities. There are some nice visions about electrifying our rail network. There are some problems with funding, but that should be resolved. There are incredibly few electric buses in Denmark, and it would be important to look at the charges that are on using electricity in public transport, that is to say to use electricity for electric buses, so to see if that area could not be promoted by just adjusting some of the charges so that we would get more of our collective transport electrified. Then there is the whole private car area; here we are at a stage where the electric car sales have stopped. I understand that the Blue Block has now given priority to a tax reduction for petrol cars and diesel cars. So there is something going in the wrong direction. This bill is made to try to meet the wishes of the Maabjerg Energy Center will be the work. There are some who speak up for the fact that there should be a great many jobs in it. So, in an official reply from the Minister, I have been told that there are between 700 and 1,000 jobs in the construction phase, and that is such a project for 2.2 billion. kr. So it is quite natural that there are some jobs in it. I have also asked about the economy by doing that work, and the uncertainty is very clear. The socio-economic costs are outlined for between 200 million. 20 million kr. a year. And if it really is the case that the socio-economic costs are 200 million. kr., if it is the case that the sale price of biofuels is high, well then it is not really something that is very beneficial, that is, that you go to vacuum the entire area around Holstebro for straw to create a modern second generation bio-aetanol plant. In the Enhedslisten we are positive that there may be some waste from which fuel should be made. It may be to handle some waste that is actually broken down in a good way, but when we see that it is straw that has to be fed into this plant, we are against it. Because we want the carbon binding in the soil to be increased by more straw being crumbled. We are in favour of converting to organic farming where we need that straw for animal welfare. So the thing about continuing to build systems in Denmark with as many pigs as possible, so that we can get some thin manure that can come into some large biogas plants with public support, while moving towards vacuuming larger areas in Jutland for straw, because it needs to be used in a bio-aetanol plant, we are not in favour of it. So we're against this bill. It is a bit exciting to look at the documents for it, because when the draft law has to deal with the environmental consequences, it was actually expected that there would be some positive consequences of it. But there isn't. And that is where it might be interesting to have a list of what it would be like if we were now instead to invest in electricity for transport. What would the environmental consequences be? And what would it be like if we looked at the economy of an investment that promoted more electrification of our rail network; as a stranger, that we got more electric buses? Yes, it could be interesting to see if there was a positive socio-economic situation. I would hope, then, that it makes a little impression when such official responses are made by the Ministry that the socio-economic consequences are a cost if this mixing requirement is achieved. The essence of this is that the bill here can well be adopted, that there must be an incorporation requirement in Denmark, and that then there will be some market mechanisms that determine whether it can be Danish bioætanol, i.e. second generation bioætanol, which is put in the tank, or whether it will be some imported. And that is where it is quite absurd to talk about these jobs, in other words because there is too much talk of birds on the roof. Because we cannot produce legislation that collides with the European Union and, like that, defines it as Danish second-generation bio-aetanol. If we could do that, we could make a solution that was tailored for the development of the Maabjerg Energy Center. But that is not the end result if there is a majority in favour of this bill on the incorporation requirement. So I think that this is the wrong way to go and I think that instead we should go for the maximum electrification of public transport and go for the whole transport sector. That is the position of Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122161924	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. We'll move on, and the next one's mr. Villum Christensen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122161936	Thank you for that, President. The legislative proposal we are discussing here aims to increase the use of what has been referred to as advanced biofuels in petrol and diesel fuels. The background should allegedly be to reduce the so-called ILUC effect, after which the production of energy crops which crowd out food cultivation should be reduced. In general terms, we have always been critical of the fact that in the name of green conversion we are helping to increase the hunger problems in the Third World, not least because of food prices, which are obviously rising when there is a small area to grow. It is also popular to say that this will support a development in which we put food in the petrol tank. The legislative proposal that lies here suggests that we increase the demand for advanced biofuels from 0.5 to 0.9 per cent. Other substances count for other factors under the ILUC Directive. The European Union seems to have made a long list of such products and, depending on the administrative definition, the fuel is good or bad or less bad, one can understand. In general, we are somewhat concerned about these academic exercises, as you might call them, and we also understand that there is really over-implementation in this area, thereby increasing the cost of the drives. One might ask how this thinking fits with the view that there is no longer anything called waste in the circular economy, but all are resources that technology will eventually be able to exploit over and over again. The technologies will certainly continue to give mankind new opportunities, which will probably not stop tomorrow, so I would like to turn on a warning signal. If the underlying idea behind this bill were to relate to a question of a better economy in certain projects that we have heard about, then I think we should be careful, because prices can of course very quickly become lower before these projects are running. Just a 10% reduction. Having said that, we cannot disagree with the direction, namely that we should certainly not put food into the petrol tank more than necessary, and we should certainly include the indirect effects of the so-called ILUC directive. As a curiosity one could finally mention that I think I will do that the planet has become something that looks like 14 per cent. greener the last 10-15 years, perhaps because more CO 2 2 has come so we have plenty of forest and green areas, and it's really good for the environment and biodiversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122162320	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next person to speak is Mr. Christian Poll as rapporteur for the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122162329	It's a complicated matter with these biofuels. We have discussed this proposal and, in the alternative, have come to the conclusion that we can support it. For the narrow approach, there is a requirement of 0.9 per cent. On the most sustainable biofuels, the biofuels that we consider to be the most problematic, i.e. first generation biofuels, will be displaced. This is basically why we can support the proposal. But we also think that there are some issues that are missing and are not addressed here, as other rapporteurs have also pointed out, namely that one can achieve some of the same things by adding electricity to the system in a much wider way than we do today, in other words electricity in cars and in trains, as several of the consultation parties highlight. So we can support the proposal, but we believe that there is a need for a broader look at how we get more electricity into the system to meet these requirements from the European Union too.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122162451	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Andreas Steenberg as rapporteur on the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122162459	Transport is one of the major challenges when we talk about the green transition in Denmark. It is virtually everything that is still on fossil fuels, and therefore we need to re-organise transport so that we can move on to some other propellants, either power or some different types of bio-based propellants. This bill is a bill we have wanted for a very long time on the part of the Radical Left, so that it was decided to incorporate biofuels into petrol, so that we can create a market to make it in Denmark, but also that we can get started on converting the cars and perhaps also the planes and ships we already have to emit less CO2 Therefore, we would like to thank the government for bringing this bill, even if it had been said in the first place that we would only come up with something in one and a half to two years' time. It is always something, although we have not come as far as the Radical Left would have liked. But it is always a start, and with the agreement made by a number of parties last week, there is also a so-called green pool and some other means for us to perhaps also agree on more initiatives in the coming months and years. So the Radical Left is happy with the bill and will vote for it when it comes to third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122162629	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then I give the floor to Mrs Mette Abildgaard as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122162636	Thank you. Unfortunately, this is a very good bill that is on the table here from the government. And I say, unfortunately, with a little smile on your face, because you might have hoped for a last bill to just give it the gas of disagreeing with the government. But let's see if it takes some time before you get the chance to be again. The next week will show that, but it is sensible legislation that lies here, and that is why we are also planning to support it from the conservative side. As the previous rapporteurs have said, we will have this incorporation requirement introduced for advanced biofuels, which, in a sense, is an over-implementation in relation to the European Union's requirements, but we believe that this is a sensible over-implementation in this case. It has to be said, and the previous rapporteur also mentioned this, that we have major challenges in Denmark in terms of climate and energy, but especially in relation to the transport sector. We are going to get commitments from the EU system in the non-quota sectors rather popularly called the three bees: farmers, housing and cars • and especially the cars we have a challenge with. On the question of whether it is electricity or biofuels that need to be incorporated into them, we are, in fact, open to more solutions that can complement each other. In the past, we have also been very warm supporters of promoting the use of electricity in the transport sector. But we think that what is here is sensible. It must be said that it is also with reference to the whole Maabjerg discussion, but there I would like to acknowledge that initiatives have been taken under the auspices of the Ministry of Business and Growth and the Ministry of Energy, Supply and Climate to see what initiatives we can take to try and help the Maabjerg Energy Center on the way. So I just want to thank you for your presentation and say that the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122162834	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122162841	Thank you, President. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. I am very pleased with the interest that has been shown in the government's proposal for special use of advanced biofuels in the transport sector. Advanced biofuels are among the most sustainable biofuels we have, as they are based on waste and residues. I therefore look forward to using them in our cars by 2020. At the same time, I hope that the government's high ambitions in this area will also have a spill-over effect in terms of more green jobs in rural areas and become a showcase for what Danish companies can do in the area. I am therefore pleased and proud that Denmark is helping to pave the way for advanced biofuels. There has been some uncertainty about what should happen if it turns out that the government's ambitious targets cannot be met due to a lack of advanced biofuels. I understand the nervousness. I have therefore proposed in the legislative proposal that it should be possible to reduce the incorporation requirement for advanced biofuels in the event that the price is disproportionately high. It is important and time for maritime transport to also contribute to the reduction of global CO2 emissions. The fixing of a system of penalties is one of the first steps towards reducing CO2 emissions. I am pleased with the interest Parliament has expressed today in the draft law, and I look forward to the continued consideration of the draft law, so that we can continue the green transition of the transport sector. With these comments, I would like to ask for the bill to continue to be dealt with in a friendly manner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122163029	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122163033	Well, I think it would be a good thing if we could have a good dialogue in the energy conciliation circle on how best to promote getting as much renewable energy as possible into the transport sector. I would really like to hear from the Minister whether, if we were now looking for more electricity in the transport sector, we could set something up and come up with some decisions where the economy was better than what the Minister has presented today. In the past, I have received an answer to a question which indicates that the socio-economic costs, if you make this 0.9% incorporation requirement, will be 200 million. kr., if we end up with a biofuel of DKK 10.40. per The volume of solution for injection is approximately 1 litre. It will then be a somewhat smaller cost if the price ends up being lower. I think there is a lack of an assessment of what else could have been done to meet the European Union's requirements. Could we not have a cheaper solution if there were electricity in the transport sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122163135	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122163136	This does not mean that it is the only solution to the challenges facing the transport sector. I see it as a way forward that we will see a mixed picture in which some vehicles will run on electricity and others on biofuels and perhaps even on energy sources that we do not know at all today. So that's why I see this as an element of more. However, this does not prevent us from also taking steps to bring more electricity into the transport sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122163200	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122163202	Well, it sounds exciting with that opening up to more electricity in the transport sector. I think one of the first things we should look at is the charges that are on electricity for electric buses. They help to prevent electricity buses from becoming more widespread, because the operating economy is badly linked when you have to pay a higher price for a bus and then are unfairly taxed by the electricity you use compared to what others have on electricity for transport. Is that something the Minister wants to take a look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122163234	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122163235	We're actually willing to look at everything. But I just have to say that everything also requires funding. Now we have most recently abolished the PRS tax, and this also helps to make it easier and cheaper to use electricity in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122163251	The next question is Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122163255	Thank you. I just want to know if the Minister and the government are still going away... as we have also been talking about in the energy conciliation group................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Søren Egge Rasmussen also refers to the EU's requirements for the share of renewable energy in the transport sector. So there can be a little more clarity for some of the players out there about how much biofuels are going to be and how much electricity is going to be and something like that. Does the Minister intend to call the parties to the energy agreements before that time?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122163329	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122163332	I think it would be quite obvious that in the energy conciliation circle we are discussing how the target should be addressed by 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122163339	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122163341	Well, I very much agree with the Minister on that, and I hope that we will have a call for a meeting of the Energy Committee. Then I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm that, too, I asked Mr. Thomas Danielsen from the Left about that the incorporation requirement now here, you might say, is half the solution compared to the Maabjerg Energy Center. And if we are to realise the jobs that can be created in West Jutland, it also requires that we get funding in place. So can I have the Minister confirm that this is what you are working for?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122163411	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122163413	With this proposal, we are creating a market for the marketing of advanced biofuels, including a market opportunity for a possible work in Maabjerg. I do not think that financing such a speech is a public task. But that does not mean that we cannot look at what opportunities there would be for finding other forms of financing for the plant. This is also the discussion which Mr. Jens Joel is part of both the undersigned and the Minister for Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122163444	The next question is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122163448	Thank you. That is a little in line with the question put by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Does the Minister intend to take a closer look at the transport sector in connection with these inclusion requirements and make some demands there? I would think that it could be quite effective from a socio-economic point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122163508	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122163510	After all, we will be well ahead of 2020 and the demands that will be on renewable energy in the transport sector, both under the auspices of the Ministry of Energy, Supply and Climate, but also in relation to the Ministry of Transport, to have a discussion on how we will deal with that challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122163524	Would the author like to make a further brief comment? No. Then we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122163541	The debate is open. Mrs Karin Gaardsted has the floor as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122163605	Danish society is very dependent on a well-functioning supply of electricity and natural gas. This applies to companies, institutions and private homes. Therefore, it is important that the electricity and natural gas sector secures itself against crashes, including cyber attacks. Back in 2014, the national strategy on cyber and information security was adopted, and the proposal that we are presenting here today is the implementation of this strategy. The supply of electricity and natural gas from production to consumption is now mainly controlled by digital control and monitoring systems, and there is therefore a very concrete need to secure systems against malfunctions, deliberate attacks and what can be called accidental incidents, and it is important to minimise crashes and limit the consequences if that happens anyway. The draft law requires companies to set up an IT system and to use secure IT systems in the electricity and natural gas sectors. IT preparedness must ensure that there is an overview of IT systems, and it must be possible to assess the risk of attacks or crashes in IT systems, so that companies are constantly prepared and know how to deal with a critical situation. The Minister is now also obliged to ensure that companies in this sector have a secure IT capability. If supervision or other investigation reveals that there are electricity and natural gas companies that are not fulfilling the task, the Minister may in future require them to have an independent investigation of their own IT systems and to carry out necessary measures so that safety can be restored to its top. Finally, it should be noted that the Minister may issue rules on how the increased costs incurred by the electricity and natural gas companies under this Act can be included in the revenue framework established by the Danish Energy Regulatory Authority. The Minister is authorised to lay down rules for the payment of fees for the supervisory work of the Danish Energy Agency, so that a fee can be charged for supervision and for the authorisation of electricity supply networks, for example. in the territorial sea given to Energinet.dk. The Social Democratic Party believes that it is absolutely necessary that utilities also strengthen IT security so that both companies and citizens in Denmark can be as sure as possible to get power and heat supplied. We recognise that not everyone on the web will always do well and that we therefore need to get into a higher league in order to protect ourselves from attacks from outside. In addition, it is now also unacceptable for a utility company to go down because of a lax and sloppy round and a lax and sloppy supervision of the IT systems and IT security measures which are absolutely essential for safe delivery. The Socialists can support the bill, and I welcome it from the SF and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122163920	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker in line is Mr. Mikkel Dencker as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122163930	Electricity and gas supply are vital for the functioning of our society. That's the way it is. It is therefore also of fundamental importance that the supply from the electricity and gas sectors is functioning constantly and is not vulnerable to disruption of operation. Whether it is internal faults of its own, or whether it is due to hostile acts such as sabotage or hacking, it is therefore vitally important for society that there should be no disruption. Today, when the operation of the utilities is almost exclusively controlled by IT systems, it is vitally important that these systems are not disrupted. It is therefore extremely important to maintain a very high level of IT security for these companies. The bill here suggests that high demands are made on the security of the supply companies' IT, both to eliminate the risk of making your own unintended mistakes, but also to prevent hackers from disrupting stability through attacks. In concrete terms, the draft law lays down strict requirements for the safety of companies. That's gotta be it. Similarly, firms are required to be required to carry out an independent investigation into their IT security. In the Danish People's Party we see it as an important and necessary step that demands are made on the safety of these companies. Because we simply cannot accept it if our security of supply is squandered. Gas and, in particular, electricity supply is so important that it must not be interrupted. Therefore, I can say that we in the Danish People's Party support the bill here and therefore, of course, also vote in favour of it when the third is dealt with in some time here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122164123	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker in line is Mr. Thomas Danielsen as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122164130	Thank you for that, President. The legislation in force in this area has an important gap and I do not intend to repeat all the good arguments put forward by my colleagues who before me have stood in the Chair to explain the importance of raising our level of safety in this area, which is why I would simply like to say that the Left, of course, also supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122164203	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122164214	The Enhedslisten supports better data security, both in terms of personal relationships and systems, which must defend our infrastructure and supply. We think, after reading the consultation answers to the legislative proposal here, that there is a single place where we should tighten up. As regards the supervision of what the companies are doing, criticism has been raised that Energinet.dk has two roles. It has then been written in the comments that it is the case that it could be changed. I believe that the adoption of the law must already stipulate that it must be amended. In other words, we have an authority which both lays down rules and then has to monitor whether they are being complied with, I do not think that is the right division of labour. Then there is one general thing that I think is a weakness in the legislative proposal, and that is that the Minister is also authorised to lay down rules. I really think it would be better if the Danish Parliament were to say more specifically: that is the way the rules should be. And this isn't just a fictional situation. In other words, there are attacks on utilities in Denmark. It's part of the reality out there. So I think this bill should be tightened up because the problem is out there; it is not a theoretical discussion that if more should be done now, it might be necessary to create some rules and to impose more new conditions on companies. I really think that this is so essential that, by adopting a law, we should say more clearly what rules should apply to the whole sector, and not just say that we can come to the conclusion that the Minister then has the authority to lay down rules. I would like, in fact, to be a part of the priority of data security and security of supply by tightening up this bill. That is our appeal in connection with the legislative proposal, because these attacks are already taking place.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122164431	There is one brief comment from Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122164436	I just want to hear from the rapporteur what the rapporteur quite specifically thinks needs to be tightened up.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122164444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122164446	Among other things, it says:: The draft law obliges the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate to lay down rules on the protection of companies' own supply-critical IT systems and the contribution of companies to the overall IT preparedness of the sector. I think it would be an advantage if we could see more clearly what rules are going to apply by way of a legislative decision. I also believe that it would be good for the sector to be able to see clearly what some tightenings have been set up here and also to see whether this is something that should happen from now on or whether it is something that happens when a problem arises in the future. I think that would be better decisions than what has been proposed now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122164520	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122164522	I understand that there may be some attention to this, but I'm thinking that this is also an area that is constantly moving. There are constantly new ways of doing things, new IT systems, new IT security options. We have a tendency as legislators that we are always sitting in the back of the bag, we are hardly ever sitting right up front, so I think that can at least be part of the explanation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122164552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122164554	I do not think that we in the Folketing should sit in the backseat. I think that when we deal with laws, we should, in fact, sit in the driver's seat and steer in the right direction. That is, of course, what I would like to see, namely that this draft law made it clearer, that something has to be done and that we could see more clearly what it is that has to be implemented, and not just that we are granting an authorisation. I am generally critical of the fact that the Folketing merely gives authority to a minister, and I also know that for example. The Danish People's Party has that basic attitude. It's a habit just to give authority. I think it would be better to get a clearer picture of the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122164628	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. And the next in line is mr. Villum Christensen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122164635	Thank you. I believe that most people in here share the Government's concern that today we do not have enough control over how so-called supply-critical IT systems can be secured against malfunctions, deliberate attacks, and what else belongs in this drawer, which also deals with terrorism. But the more dependent we are on our supply sector, the more we become dependent on IT systems and the vulnerability that comes with it. So we are in complete agreement, and I do not want to repeat many of the obvious arguments that have been raised by many. On the other hand, I would like to focus my attention on some of what Enhedslisten also mentioned. We can also be a little skeptical about how this safety task is handled. As you know, Energinet.dk has many roles in the supply sector, and we find it a little difficult to assess whether there are not too many double roles, including in this case. With the bill, the Minister proposes to maintain one of these dual roles for Energinet.dk, namely the supervision of the cybersecurity of electricity and gas companies. We believe that it is a fundamental problem to give the supervisory task to an organisation which is at the same time an actor in the sector to be supervised by it. Energinet.dk owns both the high voltage network and the gas network previously located at DONG. The supervisory task is, in our view, an authority task and should lie with an authority, as there should be no doubt as to the neutrality of supervision. Now I am also the transport rapporteur, and I can say that we also do not allow DSB to keep an eye on whether the private railways are complying with the road map they might also be able to spend some time watching their own. It is, of course, a principle which is normally very careful in the other organisation of the administrative system, even when we appoint special appeal boards independent of the Minister. Furthermore, it is probably rather inappropriate to put an actor in the sector to check whether other players are doing their job properly. The supervision of the electricity and gas companies could probably be more appropriate at the Danish Energy Agency, which the Minister is planning to supervise Energinet.dk. It could also be under the Department of Defense, where you have this Cybersecurity Center. I don't have to be smart about that, but to let the fox guard the geese usually doesn't get anything good out of it. This is something we would like to ask about in the committee's work. This should not prevent us from supporting the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122164923	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Christian Poll as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122164933	In the alternative, we are very much in line with the previous rapporteurs. We are a little concerned about the dual roles described in some of the consultations, especially Energinet.dk's, and would like to see it discussed and found solutions to it in committee work, but otherwise we support the proposal. It is important that we have secure systems around our energy supply in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122165000	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see the radical rapporteur in the Chamber at first sight, which is why we move on to the Conservative rapporteur, Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Then comes the radical rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Andreas Steenberg. Better late than never.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122165025	Excuse me, Chairman. Sometimes somebody brings such an anecdote that if you want to tell a secret, you just have to do it in the Assembly Hall. When I just heard the debate here, I noticed that it has emerged that the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslisten have agreed. For both rapporteurs talked about the fact that Energinet.dk with this law might get a little too many double roles. In fact, these were two very good speeches, with which I fully agree. And I have also noticed the hearing answers that have come, and I have noticed that the government is saying that it is considering changing it. If both the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslisten and Radicals agree to try to ask the government whether it should not be considered, and then perhaps actually change it, then it may well be that a little news has actually been created in this Parliament on Tuesday afternoon. In any case, we would also like to take part in the work of the committee and ask critical questions about this. Otherwise, the bill here is about securing our supply sector against terrorist attacks, cyber attacks and IT crashes. I remember when the defense a few years ago made their cybercrime center. There was a fairly heated discussion that some of our supply sectors did not actually have any defences against a possible IT attack. I would therefore like to commend the government for ensuring that some initiatives are taken in this area, because it is clear that our supply sector will, of course, be a very critical area for our country if it is subject to attacks. So, of course, we support that and we support the law in general. However, we would like to ask critically about what other rapporteurs have also mentioned, with the double roles of Energinet.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122165223	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. And then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122165230	Thank you. The radical rapporteur was able to present a news report, namely that the Liberal Alliance, Radicals and Enhedslisten almost agreed on something, and as a conservative, I would always like to top a radical one. I can also do that by saying that I can give even more news, namely that the Conservative People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left and the Enhedslist almost agree on something. Because we can also have some concerns about this double role that Energinet.dk can play. We can sense such a listening position on the part of the government. I have not taken a stand on any finished position, but it is clear that when one plays both an active and a major role in a sector and at the same time is given the task of having to exercise neutral supervision, there is reason for us to consider whether this is quite appropriate. But basically, this is a very, very good bill, which comes from the government and which, of course, is precisely about protecting some social infrastructure that we must feel safe in the world not going down. So we support this bill that comes from the government, but we are very happy to listen in the discussions that need to be, in relation to this possible double role.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122165353	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122165402	Thank you for that, President, and thank the rapporteurs for the comments on the draft law. The protection of society's critical infrastructure must be adapted to the current threats. This bill precisely aims to protect electricity and gas supply from a current and increasing threat from cyberattacks and errors in IT systems. The increased use of IT systems to control the electricity and natural gas system leads to increased vulnerability to this threat. These IT systems are a prerequisite for the efficient use of renewable energy sources, and IT management is a major source of efficiency in monitoring the electricity and natural gas system and the development of the energy market. A robust preparedness in the electricity and natural gas sectors requires authorities and companies to regularly assess risks and vulnerabilities and then take the necessary steps to ensure security of supply. The Cybert rush is constantly evolving and requires that experience and new knowledge are continuously translated into an appropriate response. The bill is intended to ensure that companies and Energinet.dk maintain their readiness on an ongoing basis. But there are differences between companies. Smaller companies, for example, will: could not comply with the same requirements as large companies, where operations are typically of greater importance to security of supply. These conditions are also taken into account in the draft law. Cyber threats can be a complex challenge for a company, for a sector and for society. The threat is constantly evolving and requires professional insight. It is necessary to ensure that important information about new threats or potential vulnerabilities is shared across companies and assessed from an overall perspective. The bill therefore requires companies to receive and disseminate information relevant to cybersecurity. The draft law generally requires undertakings in the electricity and natural gas sectors to maintain an IT capability that ensures the necessary protection of critical IT systems. Each company should know which systems are critical for its business; at the same time, it should assess whether the breakdown of their systems affects the overall supply. I consider companies to be competent to carry out these assessments and I believe that companies are able to choose the most effective and appropriate solutions so that solutions are sound both economically and in terms of safety. This will benefit consumers. The bill instructs me, as a responsible minister, to draw up detailed rules for the IT readiness of companies. It is intended that it will thus be possible to adapt on an ongoing basis more detailed requirements to the current threats, as well as the commercial and technological developments in the sectors. I consider this flexibility to be necessary in order to address this threat in the future. I welcome the interest that Things have expressed today in the draft law and I look forward to continuing constructive discussions in the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. And I would ask you to continue to be kind to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122165708	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122165713	I mean, I understand very well that we must defend our electricity and gas supplies. From the debate here, I wonder so little whether we have any other supplies under control. Is there a need for initiatives in the area of district heating, in the area of water? Is the government planning that there should also be initiatives for those supplies? For an attack on our water supply or our district heating system is also of a serious nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122165742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122165744	I quite agree with the questioner on this, and we are constantly assessing both water and district heating and other supplies.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122165754	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122165756	Well, it didn't quite sound like there was a bill coming. I would like to ask what has been in the consultation round, i.e. that there have been critical voices about Energinet.dk's dual role as both system-responsible company and overseeing the task of IT preparedness. It is now proposed that supervision can be moved; it is included in the comments here. On the basis of the debate we have had today, would it not be more reasonable that the law should already provide for supervision to be moved elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122165827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122165829	Thank you for the question. As the draft law shows, we are aware of the double roles that may be in relation to Energinet.dk. I have also listened to several rapporteurs today, among others. The Conservatives, the Liberal Alliance and the Radical Left have identified challenges in this regard, and I will of course take that into account in the further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122165846	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122165901	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mrs Trine Bramsen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122165922	The bill here is about implementing the part of the agreement concluded on 31 May 2016 between the government, i.e. the Left, and the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party on initiatives aimed at religious preachers who seek to undermine Danish laws and values and support parallel legal perceptions. This concrete proposal is about effectively putting an end to traveling hate preachers who travel to Denmark for the sole purpose of preaching hatred and intolerance. Unfortunately, in recent years we have seen examples of precisely this type of preacher who has an incredibly bad influence on especially young people who live and live in Denmark and who have an ethnic non-Danish background. We have seen calls to join extremist movements in Syria or Iraq, for example. We have seen calls for the killing of Jews and homosexuals, and that is precisely what we are trying to prevent with this proposal. The bill here ensures the establishment of a public national register, a list of sanctions, with named foreign religious ministers who can be excluded from entering the country on grounds of public order. Foreigners will therefore in future be able to be included in this list of sanctions which prohibits entry into Denmark and thus can be excluded from obtaining a residence permit. The draft law also introduces access for foreigners on the list of sanctions to be reported to the Schengen Information System as undesirable, not only in Denmark, but throughout the Schengen area. As a result of the entry ban, foreigners on the list of sanctions may be refused at the border and refused visas in accordance with the applicable rules. The national list of sanctions does not include foreigners covered by the EU rules on free movement and foreigners who already have a residence permit in the country. Of course, on the part of the Social Democrats, we support the proposal here. We were part of the deal at the time. We've wanted this register for a long time, and we think it's a necessary tool, unfortunately, because everything else would be a better situation if we didn't have these hate preachers who went into Denmark. But we must not deceive ourselves that the proposal here can stand alone. We must constantly focus on preventive action so that young people become resistant to this type of preacher, and we must ensure that the very same preachers cannot get through with their messages on the Internet, where it is obviously difficult to ban entry into Denmark. In these words, we in the Socialist Group can support the proposal. We were part of the agreement and that is why, of course, we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122170308	There is a brief comment from Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122170314	Thank you. I have to say that I think it is rather unclear when Danish laws and values are being undermined and supported so-called parallel legal views, which are, of course, what it takes to get on this list of sanctions. And I think that is a problem, because the thing about having transparent legislation is that it is clear when you are violating legislation and, for example, when you are violating it. In such a list of sanctions, it is important in a community governed by the rule of law. And the fact that the wording is a little rubbery goes back to the hearings. I would like to know whether the rapporteur can give a number of examples of what statements are not contrary to Danish law, which will result in one being on the list of sanctions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122170359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122170400	But there are, for example, calls for some types of assault on certain groups of people, to harass certain groups of people, to put certain groups of people into hatred.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122170419	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122170420	However, appeals to commit abuse would be contrary to Danish law. I would ask for examples of statements which will not conflict with Danish legislation, but which will nevertheless be included in the list of sanctions. 'Cause I don't think it's complicated if it's just about making statements that violate the law. That would be transparent. However, as I understand this draft law, even if one expresses oneself in a way that is not contrary to Danish law, one can also end up on the list of sanctions. So what I am asking for are examples of statements which do not conflict with Danish law but which nevertheless mean that you end up on the list of sanctions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122170501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122170502	I think that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen is somewhat wrong about what the problem here is, because the challenge is precisely that if, in a country where it is perfectly legal to stand and call for the murder of Jews or homosexuals, you do so, yes, it is not the case that you can say that that person has committed something criminal. That is why we need to have legislation that limits who is allowed to have a residence permit. I think it is quite reasonable to say that we do not want people who have violated very clear values to come to Denmark, for example, to call for murder or for assault or harassment of certain sections of the population.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122170543	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Martin Henriksen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122170552	Thank you. The bill translates part of the agreement reached before the summer between the government, the Social Democratic Party, the Conservative People's Party and the Danish People's Party on initiatives aimed at religious preachers who seek to undermine Danish laws and values and which support parallel legal views. With the bill comes a public national sanction list, as it says, with named foreign religious ministers who can be excluded from entering this country for reasons of public order. Some provisions are introduced to ensure that foreigners who are on the list are prohibited from entering Denmark and can be excluded from the residence permit, and of course the Danish People's Party can support this, as it is high time that it was introduced in this country. The foreigners on the list of sanctions who enter in violation of the entry ban may be expelled and punished for violation of the entry ban. The draft law also introduces access for foreigners on the list to be reported to the Schengen Information System as undesirable throughout the Schengen area and, as a result of the entry ban, foreigners on the list of sanctions could be refused at the border and they could be refused a visa. Unfortunately, the national public list does not include foreigners who are subject to EU rules on free movement. The Danish People's Party would have liked to see EU citizens also covered by the rules. Unfortunately, we could not get through with that, but we made it clear that there is something that we have been working on for a number of years on the part of the Danish People's Party, so we are of course satisfied with the agreement and also with the bill here which translates part of the agreement. There must be limits to how naive and crazy we should be here in Denmark. We must be much better able to say away from the extreme Muslims who want to break down the foundations on which Denmark is based. This bill is a good legislative proposal that is moving in the right direction, and that is why we can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122170746	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Carl Holst as rapporteur for the Danish Liberal Party, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122170813	I am sorry that I was a little surprised that things were going so fast. I agree with the two previous rapporteurs that it is with reference to the consensus paper of 31 May that we are here today. The starting point is the mosques behind the veil, and we are discussing a number of elements here to prevent legal certainty in the public from being violated by the fact that such a thing can take place. One element of that is that we want to make a list of sanctions to send the signal that those who are in this country and are being welcomed to the country are people who do not undermine, but respect Danish values • Western, democratic values. I'd like to say hello to you, sir. Marcus Knuth, who, as rapporteur, could not be present, and I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122170934	There is one brief comment from Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122170939	Thank you. I would like to ask the same question I put to the Socialist rapporteur, but I did not get an answer to it. It is whether the rapporteur can come with us, for example. three examples of statements which would not conflict with Danish law if they had been made here in Denmark, but which nevertheless result in one being on the list of sanctions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122171000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122171002	It is utterances which are considered to violate and harm public order; it is utterances which, for example, are: It can be said that one does not believe that Danish democracy is worth anything and that one wants the Danish state to be a caliphate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122171025	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122171027	Okay, we're getting closer. Does this mean that if a person has said that he wants a referendum to end the Danish democracy, as we know it today, and instead create a caliphate, then such a speech would lead to a vote on the list of sanctions?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122171046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122171048	That could be an example. I recognise that you cannot just make a template, because there is no template that covers the phrase disturbance of public order.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122171107	The next question is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122171108	I think it is now becoming more interesting, given what it is, the purpose of this bill is. Will the rapporteur then elaborate on the example of a preacher, a demagog who believes that democracy in Denmark is unacceptable and instead wants to introduce a caliphate? Will the example also apply if he or she urges not to vote in democratic elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122171205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122171208	The most important thing, in fact, is that you have the overall approach to it: what are the people we want here? Is it people who spread hatred for Danish society, or is it people who conform to Danish society and who have different approaches to it, now, but who do not disturb public order?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122171230	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122171232	Now it suddenly became very, very wide again. People who spread hatred, there are many of them. I regret that along with the questioner there is quite a lot. Will the rapporteur go a little further on what criteria there are for such people who spread hatred?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122171255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122171256	After all, these are preachers who, with that authority, spread this hatred in terms of undermining Danish democracy, Danish values, Western values.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122171314	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur on the Left. And the next in line is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122171325	Thank you. Enhedslisten can't support this bill. We are completely in line with, among other things. The Institute of Human Rights, which points out a wide range of legal concerns about this bill. Both the Institute of Human Rights, the Association of Foreign Attorneys and others point out that there is a great deal of rubber in the wording of undermining Danish laws and values and examining the so-called parallel legal perceptions. I fully agree that it is simply unclear what to do and say in order to get on this list, and I think that is a major legal problem. I have not been reassured by the answers given by the Social Democrats and the Liberals on the platform here before me. The Attorney General is also asking for a clearer description of the terms that might lead to you getting on this list. The Institute for Human Rights recommends that non-punished statements should not be included in the amendment of the law because otherwise people who have expressed themselves in a way that is not contrary to either Danish or international law will still be on this list. The Institute points out that a ban on non-punishable utterances would be a breach of Danish legal tradition, and Enhedslisten agrees with this. Furthermore, the Institute for Human Rights also points out that it is very difficult to assess when teaching or learning is involved, which is religious preaching and when it is education or training that is not religious preaching. I agree. I think there is simply a lack of a clear definition of what a religious minister is in this context. In addition, the Institute for Human Rights questions whether there is proportionality in the penalty it is to get on this list. And the Foundation is calling for a more thorough review of the draft law's relationship with the European Convention on Human Rights. I think that makes sense. I find it sad that the government refuses to bring one of these. Finally, several of the consultations also point out that it is unclear what the consequences of alien law might be on the second list, namely the attention list. I also agree that this is unclear here. I think it is very, very important in a legal society that it is transparent what our legislation means, so it is very easy to understand: when do I risk doing something that means that I am subject to a sanction? It is not transparent on the basis of this bill, i.e. it is easy to see when you are doing something that means imposing a sanction, that is to say you get on this list. And, as I said, I think that is very much what the lack of answers is about, since the answers may be so much said by the Social Democrat rapporteur and the rapporteur from the Left showed. It is unclear what it is you have to say in order to get on the list. The Enhedslisten does not vote for the bill. And I should like to say from the alternative that they do not vote for the bill either.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122171642	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next is Mrs Christina Egelund as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122171657	Thank you. Most wanted or it is probably most unwanted, which can bear the heading of the public sanction list of named foreign religious ministers who can be excluded from entering the country, as this bill seeks to introduce. This is not an idea that has grown in the garden of the Liberal Alliance. We are concerned that such a list would be counterproductive and would serve as a sort of hit list among religious fanatics of really interesting people who, in future, will make a big deal out of listening to and gathering together. This can then be done via digital channels. In other words, we fear that this initiative will create a not desirable list of cult-like people that their followers will then find really exciting to follow through digital media. The Liberal Alliance does not intend to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122171759	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122171815	Thank you. In the Radical Left too, we believe that this is a completely unclear legislative proposal. The law does not define what a religious preacher is or what it takes to get on the list of religious preachers who spread hatred, and I think this was made very clear by the government's rapporteur before. That is one reason why we do not support the bill. There are a large number, but the other one I would like to highlight here is what the purpose of the draft law is. Is it that fewer people gather around hateful demagogues? For the risk of this bill is, on the contrary, to saints hate demagogues who now get their name on a list, you find it hard to believe that there is something they want more than just being highlighted as such. Therefore, I find it difficult to see what the purpose is at all with this already very unclear legislative proposal, which is why we do not support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122171935	Thank you to the Radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122171953	I think we all want to fight the so-called hate preachers and see that they are a problem for many things in our society, but the question is whether this is the right way to fight them. We do not think so, and that is why we cannot support the proposal here either. There are a number of uncertainties in it, and this will cause a number of legal problems, as has also been pointed out in several of the consultation answers which are at the root of today's debate, among other things. from the Institute for Human Rights. In fact, there are many legal problems close to the Constitution that come with the list to be made here. The second is the more political and pragmatic approach, namely that, as others have also pointed out, it will be an attraction for hate preachers to come on this list, so that it actually strengthens their work to convert young Muslims or others to be radicalised. That is why it is not a particularly appropriate proposal from this point of view. The SF cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122172122	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. And then I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122172137	Thank you for the many good posts. As has already been said, the aim of the bill is to translate part of the agreement reached by the government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party on 31 May this year. The proposal before us today therefore concerns the part of the agreement aimed at preventing the admission of hate preachers. The proposal is aimed at the foreign ministers who come to this country with the aim of undermining our democracy and the fundamental freedoms and human rights on which our society is based. We should not accept that travelling foreign religious ministers come to this country to preach hatred and try to undermine the basic elements of our society, regardless of the religious position. The bill will introduce a public national sanction list with named foreign religious ministers who may be refused entry to this country for reasons of public order. In addition to the list of sanctions, an alert list will be introduced administratively. The bill therefore means that foreign publishers entered on the sanction list are prohibited from entering Denmark. The draft law also means that publishers on the list can be excluded from obtaining a residence permit and, in addition, we introduce access to the fact that the publishers concerned can be reported to the Schengen Information System • what we also call SIS II • as undesirable in the Schengen area. As a result of the entry ban, publishers on the list of sanctions may be refused at the border and may, as a rule, be refused a visa. Witnesses who enter in violation of the entry ban may also be expelled and, where appropriate, punished in the event of a breach of the entry ban. The aim of the bill is to prevent hate preachers from entering Denmark as effectively as possible. Even today, the authorities can actually reject a preacher of hatred on the border if public order so dictates. We do not change that, but with the proposed system we create a clear and practical legal basis that is very useful, so that we can prevent the preachers of hatred from entering Denmark in a completely different way from today. In other words, the system will provide us with a more effective tool for rejecting preachers who can already be excluded from entry today. This is not a completely waterproof solution. We have to say that in every case we can keep out hate preachers, but with the entry ban we ensure that the hate preachers who cross internal borders can also be expelled, precisely because they have violated the entry ban. In this way, it is a system that will actually provide a significant and effective protection against extremist publishers. There has also been criticism of the sanction list in relation to its publication. I am well aware that there are different views on that particular issue. For me and for the parties behind the agreement, it is essential that the list of sanctions be published in order to ensure that the system is as effective as possible. Let me make it clear that the people we are talking about here are traveling preachers of hatred, which, for many, is already known to the public for their extreme opinions. And as already mentioned, we can never make sure that someone on the list succeeds in entering Denmark without the authorities knowing it. Therefore, it is important that the authorities of ordinary citizens or journalists can be made aware of it if a person on the list has entered Denmark or is on the way to entry. In order to ensure that the system is as effective as possible, I therefore believe that it is absolutely necessary for us to publish the list. Some of the consultation responses received from the consultation parties expressed concern that the draft law imposes restrictions on fundamental rights, including freedom of expression and religion. I would like to stress that the bill regulates the right of foreigners to enter and reside in Denmark when public policy considerations are against the fact that they are staying in this country. It is overall the government's assessment that the bill can be implemented within the framework of the Constitution, of course, but also within the framework of Denmark's international obligations, including the European Convention on Human Rights. With the bill, the government wants to send out a clear signal that foreign religious preachers who abuse the freedom to preach hatred and to seek to undermine the values of freedom and democracy are not welcome in this country. Religious ministers have a special position in influencing their congregations. Therefore, it is particularly problematic if, through their behaviour, they work against and undermine Danish laws and values. So I am glad that we are now getting a list of sanctions that will enable us to deny hate preachers access to Denmark more effectively. In my view, it is a very important tool if we are to protect ourselves from extremist forces who want to undermine our democracy. It has been debated when there are such considerations of public order in Denmark, which means that a travelling preacher of hatred should be excluded from entry. And it is true that not only criminal statements can be covered by public policy considerations. In my opinion, that is the way it must be. The government will not accept that hate preachers can freely come to Denmark and influence others with their extreme attitudes. In the extreme cases to which the proposal is confined, it is, of course, a matter of abuse of freedoms to undermine and oppose the principles of democracy and respect for human rights on which our society is founded. That is what we want to put an end to even if there is no talk of words that could be punished if you were actually allowed to enter this country. We can and must decide for ourselves, as previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, whether we are letting these travelling extremist hate preachers into our country who use a human right to undermine the human rights of others and undermine our democracy. It has also been pointed out that EU citizens cannot be included in the list of sanctions and that protection against expulsion of EU citizens is stronger for third-country nationals. And that's the way it is. That is why, in addition to the list of sanctions, the government will introduce a list of attentions. The aim of such a list is to dress the authorities to the best of their ability to make the decisions that can be taken today in such cases, but rarely will it be, because the necessary information is simply not available. The list of attention is not part of the legislative proposal, as the list can be introduced administratively and therefore does not require legislation. That is why I am not going to go into the issue today in detail during the examination of the draft law, but would just like to say that the relevant authorities will now prepare to describe the regulatory cooperation and scope provided by such a list of attentions. In conclusion, I would like to thank you for the support for this proposal and, of course, I look forward to the further discussion here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122173008	There is a brief comment from Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122173012	Thank you. Will the Minister give us three examples of statements which are not punishable but which nevertheless result in one being placed on this list of sanctions?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122173024	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122173026	I would say, as the proposal also says, that this may be the case if a foreign religious minister argues both systematically, intensively and persistently in study circles or for example. on websites for the introduction of a caliphate, for example. That would be an example of it. However, it may be difficult to say precisely here today that this is the case, for there are several things that need to be done, namely what I said about doing it continuously, intensively and systematically. But that is an example of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122173108	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122173110	How many times do we have to say that we want a caliphate so that it is continuous and systematic? That is my first question. My second question is this: if you have argued that in a referendum you want to abolish democracy and introduce a caliphate, do you also end up on the list of sanctions, as the rapporteur of the Left said a moment ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122173136	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122173137	Firstly, on how many times: it is a concrete assessment every time, and it has to be reviewed in each case. And to the second question: Well again, it will be assessed on the basis of the specific case. What I said, however, is that it must be systematic, that it must be intensive and that it must be sustained, is at least one of the things that applies.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122173204	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is over. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122173228	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is Mrs Trine Bramsen from the Social Democratic Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122173251	Foreigners who abuse their stay in Denmark to commit crime have nothing to do in Danish society. Criminal aliens must be expelled and sent home. That is why we also support the bill, which means that criminal foreigners can be expelled. With the bill we are discussing today, the government proposes that by inserting the words "with security" into the Aliens Act, we tighten the expulsion rules and that Denmark can thus, according to the government, expel more criminal foreigners in the future. As I have said, we in the Social Democratic Party support a tightening of the rules on expulsion, but in relation to the draft legislation before us we have serious doubts as to whether this is really a tightening or whether the proposal is merely a symbolism policy. Tighter rhetoric, which really has no effect, does not send any more criminal aliens home. Back in 2012, the two words with security were removed. They did so because the European Commission was concerned about the implementation of the Residence Directive. However, in the comments to Bill No. 180 as from 2011-12, it appears: "There is no intention to change the practice of the courts in cases of expulsion of criminal aliens. People who can be expelled according to the rules in force will continue to be expelled. The clear rule in expulsion cases where foreigners are sentenced to the death penalty for crimes committed will therefore continue to be that of expulsion. Expulsion can only be omitted if expulsion would be contrary to Denmark's international obligations. That is precisely why we in the Social Democratic Party have doubts about whether this is a real tightening up here today. And when consultation answers to the present draft law, among other things. from the Lawyers' Society, the Danish Court of Justice, the National Association of Defence Attorneys, the Association of Laws and the Institute of Human Rights, all point out that the bill does not change a comma of what is already in force today, and we will in fact be further confirmed in our doubts. For according to the consultation answers, the general rule is that expulsion should take place unless it is directly contrary to Denmark's international obligations and that assessment is carried out by the Danish courts. This applies today, and it also applies in the future, regardless of whether this bill is adopted or not. This is also why we in the Social Democratic Party have put a very large number of in-depth questions to the draft law here, both in order to clarify the scope of the tightening that the Minister claims to the Danish Parliament will mean here and, of course, the effect that the Minister in public has claimed the proposal will have and, above all, because we on the part of the Social Democratic Party will have bore out what significance, if any, it has for EU citizens such as Levakovic, who, as you know, are also included in the residence directive. It should be noted that Levakovic has just been mentioned in the Minister's press release on the proposal we are discussing here and that, although the Minister pointed out in a conciliation meeting in June that EU citizens such as Levakovic will not be included in the proposal here. Perhaps the Minister from the Parliamentary Chair can already guarantee that the proposal will lead to more expulsions, both in relation to EU citizens and in relation to other foreigners. Finally, I would like to mention that we in the Social Democratic Party support stricter rules on expulsion. We do not think it is fair that criminal exiles should stay in Denmark, but we also have doubts about the impact of this particular proposal. That is why we look forward to the Minister's reply, both from the parliamentary platform here today and from committee questions, and to the further consideration in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122173708	Thank you to Mrs Trine Bramsen. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122173712	Thanks for the speech. On 3 May 2012, at first reading of L 180, which removed the words "with security " from the bill, Mr. Morten Bødskov: There is no question of changing court practices; there is no question of changing who can be expelled. The people who could be deported yesterday and who can be deported today can also be deported tomorrow. I just need to be absolutely sure that I have correctly understood the Social Democrat rapporteur: that remains the view of the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122173751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122173752	In any case, we are very doubtful that this proposal will have a real effect. However, we should not be the party that stands in the way of sending criminal foreigners home, and that is also why we are asking the Minister to bear out the real effect of this proposal. But we're not gonna stand in the way of these two words being able to send more people home. We doubt that this will happen in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122173820	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122173827	Thank you. I would urge the Social Democrats to vote in favour of the bill. I have the impression that this is a tightening, but it could be even bigger. However, I would urge the Social Democrats to vote in favour, because I think it is important for the Folketing to send a clear signal to the courts that if there is even the slightest chance of expelling criminal foreigners, then we want to do so. So I call for the Social Democrats to vote in favour, even though there is doubt about the effect, because it is a good signal to send to the courts. They need to hear that signal from the Folketing. The wider the majority, the better. That's one. The second is that I would like to ask whether the Social Democratic Party is prepared to look at how to make further changes to the expulsion rules so that even more criminal foreigners can be expanded. So I am talking about an action that goes beyond what is in the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122173917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122173919	The starting point is that we will not stand in the way of this proposal being implemented, and so we support it. We would like to look at other initiatives that can also in practice ensure that criminal foreigners can be sent home, because the starting point is that it is not reasonable for people like Levakovic to remain in Denmark even if repeated crime is committed. If, with respect for international conventions and our other international obligations, we can find a way to repatriate more criminal foreigners, we would be very happy to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122174000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122174002	All I want to do is sign for the Social Democrats to vote in favour of it. I think that is a good thing. I would also like to acknowledge that we would like to look at whether we can tighten up further the rules on expulsion. Then I do not have so much a question, but a call for us to agree on how to tighten up further. Too tight on criminal aliens is always good.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122174020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122174021	We are very much in favour of starting work to get more criminal foreigners repatriated. So let us certainly discuss it further.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122174034	Thank you to Mrs Trine Bramsen. There are no more brief comments. The next one is sir. Martin Henriksen for Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122174047	Thank you. It is proposed that the words "with security" be inserted again in Section 26 of the Aliens Act, so that a criminal alien must be expelled unless this would certainly be contrary to Denmark's international obligations. The Danish People's Party already proposed to tighten up the expulsion rules before the summer. Unfortunately, there was no support at the time, but there is now. That's how I have to understand it. In the Danish People's Party we believe that criminal foreigners should be expelled, because there is no reason to collect such people here in Denmark. We have seen a number of examples of the courts and even the Supreme Court giving unreasonable protection to deep criminal foreigners. Sometimes it is as if the courts do not understand the laws and respect the laws adopted by the Folketing, and I think that is highly questionable. I hope that this change will mean that the courts understand and respect that it is Parliament's wish that more criminal foreigners be expelled. With the amendments to the bill, the Aliens Act will be brought back to what was applicable until 1 July 2012 when the S-R-SF government changed the rules. The Danish People's Party supports the bill and we would like it to be examined whether the expulsion rules can be tightened up further, but we will address this in the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122174201	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. There were no brief comments. We welcome Mr. Carl Holst from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122174214	Thank you for that, President. The Left can support the proposal and I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they can also support the proposal. Some people think this is symbol politics. The Left does not think so. We believe that it is a mistake to remove security in 2012 because it is not a symbol policy, but a clear signal that criminals must be deported, and so we make this even clearer by saying 'with security'. With security it must be understood that it should not, of course, be contrary to Denmark's international obligations, but it must also be certain that it is not contrary to them, because if there is the least, criminal foreigners must be expelled. That is why the Left and the Conservative People's Party support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122174321	Thank you, sir. Carl Holst. There are no brief comments. We welcome Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen on behalf of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122174331	The words "with security" move in and out of the alien law's expulsion provisions. In 2012, the words were removed and, even then, it was highly disputed whether the change would have any effect in practice. It is, of course, with reverse signs still discussed in 2016 that one could also say doubtful whether this change will have any meaning whatsoever in reality. In the Enhedslisten, we could choose to listen to the lawyers who argue that the 15-page draft law before us will have no practical significance whatsoever and will simply pull its shoulders. Then you can say that it doesn't matter whether you vote green or red or yellow. When we vote against, there are two reasons. Firstly, we believe that in their decisions Danish courts should be on the safe side of decisions where important international conventions, such as the European Convention on Human Rights, are concerned. The European Convention on Human Rights is at stake. We simply disagree politically with the need to pursue a policy of aliens which is so strict that we constantly go straight to the edge of human rights. We think that human rights should be an absolute bottom level, not a maximum, and then everything is good. Secondly, this is signal policy. It is important for the government, and not least for a support party, to send a signal that Denmark is pursuing a tough immigration policy, although the change we are discussing today is probably completely ineffective in practice. So that is the signal you want to send. We are against the signal, and that is why we are voting against it. However, as I said, one could vote in favour, one could vote against or one could abstain. I do not think it means anything in practice. Many lawyers agree with that. I should like to welcome the alternative and say that they are also voting against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122174535	Thank you to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122174550	Our relationship with international conventions is very much in the public debate. Some of the questions asked are: What are we going to do with them? Are they obsolete? Should they be suspended or reformed. I would like to make it clear that we in the Liberal Alliance are in favour of international rules of play and an international legal order, because the alternative is international Armageddon. The draft law before us seeks to make it easier to expel criminal foreigners within the framework of our international obligations. We in the Liberal Alliance believe that the bill is an expression of the right balance between the concern for the desire to expel criminal foreigners that we share and the concern for Denmark's international obligations. We therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122174639	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen on behalf of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122174658	Thank you. It is not possible to use rigid rhetoric, which really has no effect, said the Social Democrat rapporteur. I think that's so right. That's why we're against this bill, too. Radical Left finds it very difficult to see that it will make any difference at all. I look forward to the Minister's reply to the question also from the Socialist rapporteur on how it may have changed that the Commission expressed concern at the time and we therefore took it out because it was contrary to the implementation of the Residence Directive. Will it not come again? To express general concern, it is probably more about how counselling changes, depending on who sits in government offices. I find it strange that the advice in our time was that it would be a sensible thing to take this out, because it was not actually in line with directives, while the advice now has to be someone else. The Minister can, of course, discuss this. Of course, it can just be the government that opposes that advice.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122174834	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. I do not see that the SF is present in the Chamber. Then we turn to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. She is warmly welcome to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122174855	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteurs for the speeches that have been made here. The aim of the bill is quite clear: more criminal foreigners must be expelled. Criminal foreigners do not belong in Denmark. It is quite unacceptable that foreigners abuse their stay in Denmark to commit crime, and the aim of the bill is therefore to send a clear signal to the courts that more criminals should be expelled from Denmark. Only in cases where it will certainly be contrary to Denmark's international obligations shall expulsion be omitted. In such cases, foreigners must instead be deported conditionally. This means that if there is no doubt as to whether a foreigner can be expelled, then the doubt should benefit Denmark, never the criminal. The draft law brings the expulsion rules back to the form the rules had up to 1 July 2012 when the former S-R-SF government changed the rules. In the current government's view, it was a clear mistake for the previous government to relax the rules. This government wants to tighten up the rules in this area and send a clear and clear signal to criminal foreigners that we in Denmark will not give residence to foreigners who break Danish laws. Thus, it is clear directly from the draft law that expulsion can only be waived if it will certainly be contrary to Denmark's international obligations. More criminal foreigners must be expelled. The government's basic view is that Denmark must live up to its international obligations. At the same time, however, we do not want to hide the fact that we want to explore the game room within our international commitments. If in a case there is uncertainty as to the scope of the international obligations, it is up to the courts to assess in concrete terms whether the expulsion of the person concerned is possible within the framework of Denmark's international obligations. However, the draft law stresses that if the court's discretion results in the expulsion not being certain to be contrary to them, it must be deported. As I have said, the bill is quite clear: several criminal foreigners must be expelled from Denmark. And I look forward to further treatment here in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122175130	A brief comment has been made by Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122175133	Is it the Minister's view that a single extra foreigner who will not be able to be expelled today will be able to be expelled once this law has been implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122175148	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122175149	Yes, it is my clear opinion that it will have a real effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122175156	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122175157	Does this mean that the Minister believes that during the period during which the wording on security did not appear in the law there were persons who were not expelled but would otherwise have been expelled? That was my one question. My second question is: is it not true that, whether this law is implemented or not, it should not be shown if it is contrary to human rights and conventions?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122175229	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122175230	As I also said in my speech, we will live up to international commitments, and it is certain that that wording can be used right now. It's a little clever. Having said that, however, there is no doubt that we want to explore international conventions, and we have not concealed that fact either. However, I believe that it will have a real effect. I cannot, of course, today, and even if a written question is put, examine all the judgments and see whether there would have been one who would certainly have been expelled or whether there would have been a greater likelihood of it. But what I can at least say is that we are now doing everything we can to ensure that Denmark is taken into account and not the criminal. I also believe that this will mean that the courts will keep a greater distance from the edge, if that is the case when this is inserted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122175335	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122175338	I need to hear about something. I understand from the Minister that the Minister will not examine the cases and find concrete examples of when a person who should have been expelled could not be expelled, as it did not say with security, but will be able to do so now. But can the Minister give us a thoughtful example, or, of course, if the Minister can give us a concrete example, of people whom the Minister would have liked to have shown and who might be able to be deported in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20161122175413	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122175413-2	I do not make a bid here from the platform on who should be expelled from Denmark and who should not.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122175419	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122175420	I also asked for a thoughtful example of something that can now be done but that could not be done during the period when it was written with security.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122175431	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122175432	I am not here trying to define criminal running tracks and thus try to define what you can and what you cannot do without being expelled from Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122175441	Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, and the debate is therefore over. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122175503	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dan Jørgensen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122175525	Thank you. The draft law implements the political agreement on better conditions for recruitment of highly qualified workers to the European Spallation Source. I hope that is quite the way it is pronounced. At least no one is shaking their heads like that in the Chamber. This is a very significant effort with the ambition of creating one of the world's largest and most advanced research facilities in the Øresund region. I am not going to go into the technical details of how neutron proliferation is carried out in practice here either. I will not be able to do that either, but I will simply note that the project has the potential to give Danish research a huge boost and at the same time provide industry with new opportunities to analyse materials that are to be used to develop new products. It goes without saying that if you want to set up a research facility that will be a world leader, it is absolutely crucial that you can attract the best researchers from all over the world. We are now creating better opportunities for this, partly by giving researchers and highly qualified staff from third countries the opportunity to live in Denmark, partly by giving foreign employees at the data centre in Copenhagen the opportunity to use the research tax scheme, even though they are doing part of their work at ESS in Lund. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122175647	Thank you, sir. Dan Jørgensen. No one was praying for short remarks, so we move on to Mr. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122175657	Thank you. Yes, it is a little difficult to stand here as the Danish People's Party's Foreign Affairs rapporteur and then express your support for a bill that means that more foreigners are coming to Denmark • so hold on now. However, if there are any DFs out there who sit and follow, I can reassure them by saying that it is estimated that 60-80 third-country nationals will be employed at the ESS main facility in Lund, and there is no estimate of the proportion of this relatively small group that will settle in Denmark. So if there are any DFs watching, I hope they will forgive me for the following rapporteur's speech: it is proposed that foreigners taking part in a PhD programme or having entered into an agreement or an offer of employment at the ESS research centre in Sweden be given the opportunity to obtain a residence permit in Denmark if participation in their education or employment is linked to the research company. The bill translates into the European Spallation Source those parts of the agreement on improved conditions for recruitment of highly qualified workers, which require amendment of the Aliens Act and the withholding tax Act. The agreement is in order from the point of view of the Danish People's Party and we have emphasized that the part dealing with residence permits in Denmark is covered by a settlement, which means that this special arrangement cannot be extended to other groups of foreigners unless the conciliation circle agrees. Basically, it is the view of the Danish People's Party that Denmark does not need more foreign labour, which is why we, together with a number of parties, have also abolished the greencard system and increased the limit of the amount, but since this is a small number of foreigners and the scheme cannot be extended unless there is agreement, the Danish People's Party can see the sense of the bill. And then it is a special research project that can justify the bill in question. With these comments, the Danish People's Party, unless surprises come out in committee, can of course support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122175840	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. And we move on to the third rapporteur, Mr President. Carl Holst from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122175850	Thank you for that, President. The previous bill concerned foreigners we do not want in the country, namely criminal foreigners. This bill is about attracting highly specialised, highly trained staff to the ESS. They're the ones we want. That is why the Left supports the bill. And we are also speaking on behalf of the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122175925	Short and clear. There are no brief comments. Thank you, sir. Carl Holst. The next rapporteur is Mr Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122175938	Thank you. It was kind of queer. The Enhedslisten supports the basic idea of developing cooperation in the Øresund region, and we also think it is quite obvious that third-country citizens who participate in a PhD programme or have entered into an agreement or have been offered employment on the ESS in Sweden will have the opportunity to live here in Denmark, which of course requires a residence permit. The condition that the residence permit is granted only if a similar employment in Denmark would have triggered a residence permit, we think it is also fine. We also think it is good that it should be stressed that the position should be linked to research activities. After all, the legislative proposal also means that the target group will have the opportunity to apply the researcher tax scheme. We are generally critical of this arrangement in the Enhedslisten. We are opposed to the kind of legal tax holes that benefit those who earn the most. Although it is called a research scheme, it is also used by many others, including footballers and golfers. The argument is most often that this tax hole is needed to attract skilled labour. If that's true, then you could raise these people's salaries rather than let them go cheaper in taxes. However, our general scepticism about the research tax scheme does not lead us to vote 'no'. We support the bill. However, we would like to stress that we are rejecting the proposal in the consultations to extend this tax scheme. Then I should welcome the alternative and say that they are also voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122180115	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122180129	A new world leading research institution is about to be established in Sweden and Denmark respectively. ESS will be a focal point for some of the world's best researchers in the material and biotechnology fields, and while a data management and software centre is being located in Copenhagen, the primary research facility is being built in Lund, Sweden. Many of the previous rapporteurs have already explained the wisdom of this draft law, so I am not going to make any more of that. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill, but there is a small ape dabei, as stated by the Finance Council in their hearing response, namely that it is a proposal that can create unfair discrimination, since a publicly owned company obtains positive discrimination and is given better conditions than other companies. In the opinion of the Financial Council, the positive discrimination is clearly contrary to fundamental principles of equality, and that is an objection which we think is legitimate and which we would like to take further in the work of the committee. We support the bill, but in reality we would like to see residence permits given generally to people who can support themselves and theirs, and that we in Denmark really took care to ensure that smart, industrious and hard-working foreigners would choose to lay their careers in Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122180300	There are no brief comments here either, so the next one is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122180312	Thank you. Like the previous rapporteur, I support the proposal. We in the Radical Left do this because we want skilled foreigners to be needed not only in the ESS, but in a large number of Danish companies; all of us will be more skilled and richer, creating new jobs for more. So it is very good that this is happening now for the ESS, a gigantic research infrastructure in which all European countries have put money, and which I helped to take on board. It will be very, very good for the Øresund region and for Europe as such. So, of course, we have to back that up. As rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, I am sorry that, with regard to the research tax scheme, it will mean discrimination for a number of other international employees or perhaps even Swedish employees employed in Danish companies and Danish employees employed in Swedish companies. On the other hand, I understand from the tax minister that this is an issue he would like to discuss, and it must then be in the tax rapporteur's circle, but I hope that much can be achieved, so that at least there will be a little more flexibility. We would, of course, like to see the system that we are now introducing for ESS employees applicable to all knowledge workers at this level. But it is good that at least that flexibility will be created so that we do not hit other employees at odds across Øresund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122180501	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here too there are no brief comments, so the trip has come to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122180512	Thank you for the overwhelming support for this bill. The aim of the bill is to ensure that some of the world's best researchers and other highly educated staff at ESS in Lund have the opportunity to settle in Denmark for the benefit of Danish companies and for the benefit of Danish society. It is expected that ESS will become one of the world's most advanced research facilities and a magnet for some of the most talented scientists in the world. Denmark and Sweden share the ESS hostage and together contribute just under half of the construction costs. A number of other European countries are also participating in the project. The benefit for Denmark depends in particular on whether we are able to secure the basis for a successful transfer of highly specialised ESS employees to companies in Denmark in the long term. The likelihood that the highly specialised ESS employees will subsequently take up work in Denmark will increase if they live in Denmark, and especially if they have accompanying families who are just happy to live here. That is why the draft law proposes that foreigners working at the ESS research centre in Sweden should be able to obtain a residence permit in Denmark if the work is linked to the ESS research activities. The proposal will ensure that Denmark gets the most out of the investment in ESS, and this will make it easier for Danish companies to recruit some of the world's best researchers for the benefit of the development of Danish society. With these words, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for receiving this bill. It is rare that there is such broad support when it comes to foreign policy, but it is good that there is this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122180715	Thank you. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161122180731	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, so I thank everyone for their work in the service of the people's regime. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 23 November 2016, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
