ParlaMint-DK_20161206163504	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206163506	The item listed as No. 1 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206163523	The debate is open. Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206163544	Thank you, President. A few weeks ago, a bankruptcy of an insurance company in Liechtenstein sent 26,000 Danish property owners' finances into great uncertainty. Suddenly there was no longer any cover for the damage discovered and recognised, and any future damage would not be possible either. The company Gable Insurance has set up an agency in Denmark under the cover of the Danish name Houseowners Insurance, from which it has sold change of ownership insurance at a price far below the price of Danish competitors. With such a low price, it almost sounded like it was too good, and so was it. With misleading marketing that the company was better covered by guarantee schemes than Danish companies, the reality was quite different. In fact, when the company went bankrupt on 19 November, there was no guarantee scheme that could be used to secure the insured persons who were being held by farmers. It is here that not only the parties of the Folketing, but also the Danish insurance companies in Insurance & Pension show up on their good side. Farm-captured customers should not have their family finances smashed by unscrupulous backers in Liechtenstein and its Danish agency, Houseowners' Insurance. On Thursday 1 December, the parties in the financial conciliation group concluded the agreement on the basis of which we are dealing urgently with the legislative proposal we are debating today. There are several elements of the agreement. Most pressingly, it is about securing the homeowners who today have cases and are without cover. The guarantee fund for non-life insurance undertakings has a pool of 430 million. kr. In the event of the bankruptcy of a Danish insurance company, it must be used. It's under the law 130 million. kr. Too much, and therefore the free funds are now being set aside to cover the landowners who are in a mess and are without cover after Gable Insurance's bankruptcy. Specifically, the law on a guarantee fund for non-life insurance companies is amended so that Danish customers who have taken out an insurance policy in Gable Insurance can be compensated for claims already notified and dealt with and covered any new claims that have been notified in due time. The bill and the agreement are reasonable in that, together with Danish insurance companies and the guarantee fund, we save Danish homeowners who would otherwise be without any coverage whatsoever. The Fund does not cover claims which have been rejected by the Houseowners' Insurance and which have not been referred to the Insurance Appeals Board before the date on which the bankruptcy order was given on 19 November. The homeowners who do not have any damage yet but who are without a change of ownership insurance for the next 5-10 years will have the opportunity to take out a new insurance policy. The Minister for Business and Industry, in agreement with the parties to the settlement, has entered into an agreement with Insurance & Pension that the current Danish customers who have taken out a change of ownership insurance in Gable Insurance will be able to take out a new replacement insurance with insurance & Pension members. The insurance will be eligible until 31 March 2017 and the life of the insurance will, as a general rule, be equal to the remaining life of the insurance contracted by the policy holder with Gable Insurance. As something new, the guarantee fund is opened to foreign insurance companies selling consumer insurance to Danish customers, so they can • but they must not become members of the guarantee fund in respect of Danish customers. Of course, it is not free of charge, and therefore an entry fee is set to be paid when a new insurance company becomes a member of the fund. The fee must be DKK 50. for each policy the company has drawn on the Danish market, however, at least DKK 100,000. Then we think it is important that we prevent a similar scandal from arising again. That is why we have agreed to tighten up marketing as well as good practice. A future bill will require an agency to clearly indicate in its marketing in which insurance insurance is drawn and whether the company is covered by a guarantee scheme and the name of that guarantee scheme. It is also introduced into the good customary decree. And then we need to learn more about the rules about the buyer and seller's role in drawing change of ownership insurance. Therefore, a service review of the rules is also being carried out, including the role of real estate brokers in that process. For the Social Democratic Party, it is extremely important that we have agreed that it should now be examined whether those responsible in Gable Insurance and Houseowners' Insurance can be held accountable. A legal statement will be prepared on the possibility of imposing liability on the management of Gable Insurance, the Houseowners' Insurance management, their partners in the distribution of insurance, including real estate agents, as well as other advisors for any loss suffered by customers and the Guarantee Fund. If the lawyer's statement reveals questionable circumstances, it may include, among other things: have implications for fit and property approval in relation to board positions and management in the financial sector. Finally, we have agreed that the FSA will investigate whether the consumer protection rules have been infringed in connection with the sale of insurance at Gable Insurance. Customers who suffer as a result of bankruptcy may bring proceedings against a lawyer or other counsellor. Finally, I would like to say that today, with this bill, we are solving an urgent problem for many families. We want to prevent others from coming into a similar situation in the future and, finally, we are working hard to hold responsible those responsible for their unscrupulous deeds so that they cannot again take management positions in the financial sector. With these words, I can say that the Social Democrats support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206164106	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206164116	I would like to sign up for the very long and concrete speech by the Social Democrat rapporteur on the content of this bill which we are now discussing here in the Danish Parliament. Perhaps it would have been quicker if the rapporteur had just read out the whole text of the political agreement, which, as it were, is agreed by the whole parliament. There are only three sides. So I actually believe that the rapporteur could have made an even shorter speech than what came. But don't worry about it. In the Danish People's Party we are incredibly pleased with the agreement we have reached here. We think it is very healthy and sensible. The many thousands of property owners concerned, who have taken out change of ownership insurance for their homes in the company in question, are in a very insecure private financial situation. They need assistance, as their insurance doesn't cover because of this foreign bankruptcy. Back in May last year it came to light that several different sides had sold and mediated these change of ownership insurances under the pretext that there was indeed coverage via the guarantee fund, and it was quite clear in many places that people were covered by this guarantee. In the Danish People's Party we are very interested in examining what has actually been done by the government or governments since May last year, so we get that part of it outlined. It would not be fair if nothing had been done since May last year. We think it is important that we clarify these matters by means of a self-examination in the legislative field. It is also important to clarify what has been done by the authorities since it became known that a great many change of ownership insurances had been sold on the wrong basis last year, and that this happened, even though the Danish Consumer Protection Agency and others had practically approved the policies referred to. But it is true, as Mr. Thomas Jensen said in his speech that some policies were sold which had unnaturally low costs. The politicians were significantly cheaper than similar products, which Danish companies were typically able to sell to their customers. It is important for the Danish People's Party that we get to grips with this. Because it's other policy holders who are actually going to pay this very big, three-digit million bill for these thousands of customers who have an insurance policy that doesn't cover anything. We in the Danish People's Party fully agree that it is common sense that Insurance & Pension has shown an interest in making an agreement that provides security for consumers, the many policy holders. But we also think that when it is done and we have ensured a balance in things, so that people experience a good legal situation and do not have to leave home because of non-guarantee insurance, it is therefore important that we have taken all the measures that need to be taken to ensure that, for example, we do not lose sight of the fact that we are not going to have to have a guarantee. Real estate agents and business partners and others who have sold these policies on a false basis are prosecuted. In other words, it is time for self-examination, including here in Denmark. We can't just suck it all off in Liechtenstein or anyone else. We also need to ensure that Danish legislation is complied with. We are very pleased that the law is now being amended in a concrete way, so that we also have the opportunity to get foreign insurance companies into the current regime against the fact that they are, of course, paying a contribution to the fund in order to have their policies included in the guarantee fund. We are very pleased about that. But it doesn't change the fact that we have to learn from this too. We'll try to look forward. But by looking backwards, it is that we have to go in and look at what we ourselves have done. And, as I said, I'm very interested in finding out what we've actually been doing since May 2015, when we found out that there were some problems compared to the marketing on which these policies had been sold. We are also looking forward to that being fleshed out in the context of the matter here. But, from a legislative point of view, it is an emergency law, and that means that we need to get it in place as quickly as possible in order to be able to have these homeowners insured. Of course, we also support in the Danish People's Party that it will be implemented as soon as possible. But these following things, I think we should spend a lot of time on. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206164616	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206164625	As has been said, Gable Insurance in Liechtenstein went bankrupt on 19 November and it has been of great importance to the 26,000 customers who in Denmark through the Danish Houseowners' Insurance Assurance Agency have subscribed either a change of ownership or building damage insurance in the company, because from one day to the next the policyholders had a worthless insurance, because the company was not covered by the Danish guarantee scheme or any other guarantee scheme, although it has previously been claimed. And there has also been a process of this in the media, which I am quite sure many have followed closely. I have to say that we are not talking about small business in this situation, because it is economic requirements that can ruin every family's economy. This is precisely why, on 1 December, the government concluded an agreement which has subsequently been signed by a few more parties, so that all the parties of the Folketing together are behind it. This is precisely the agreement that the draft law is putting into effect here, which means that those insured persons who have an ongoing case or notify a case before 31 March 2017 but who have not been refused their case before 19 November will be able to recover their claims from the Guarantee Fund for Damage Insurance Companies. The guarantee system, which applies to Danish companies, does not currently apply to foreign companies, therefore, benefits. In order to ensure that the basic capital of the Guarantee Fund remains at the required 300 million. kr., as previous rapporteurs have said, we increase the risk of first damage to DKK 20,000, while it is policens self-risk that applies to any further damage. This must of course be seen in the light of the fact that insurance has generally been cheaper than others on the Danish market and that the company concerned and its customers have not contributed to the guarantee fund. Then you have to keep a little more for yourself. Later in this Assembly, legal bases will be created for foreign companies to be able to join the Danish guarantee scheme in return for payment. Part of the political agreement is also that the Minister of Business will enter into an agreement with Insurance & Pension, and it has been done that the affected customers who do not suffer damage before 31 March 2017 can instead take out a compensation insurance with companies that are members of Insurance & Pension. A political agreement also means, and it makes very good sense in such a serious case, that a legal statement is initiated to clarify whether some of the key players in this case can be held liable. This applies not only to the management of Gable Insurance, the management of the Houseowners' Insurance Assurance Agency, but also to the partners, real estate agents and other advisors who have communicated these insurances. Can there be any liability also for the losses that the guarantee fund is going to cover? Similarly, the Consumer Ombudsman also has an opportunity to raise group actions, for example, in relation to the losses suffered by customers. There is probably a certain probability that there are many similar cases, and thus there is this possibility. Finally, the political agreement of 1 December contains further initiatives, again to prevent similar cases from arising. These are both restrictions on marketing rules and good practices in the field of insurance. For example, it has been a big millstone in this case whether there has been real information on whether there is a guarantee system and which is involved, so that consumers are fully informed about what is in force. Also in the context of the future directive on insurance mediation, it is being corrected that insurance agencies are, as a starting point, treated as insurance companies in the sale of insurance. Finally, the government has indicated that the issue of effective supervision will also be raised at EU level when insurance companies operate across borders. So it is important to say that if there is a responsibility that can be placed, it must of course be done. We support that with the agreement. This is a serious economic situation in which 26,000 Danish homeowners have come into existence. This is a situation which can mean economic ruin for many families. That's why it's good that we don't just stand idly by here from Christiansborg. That is why, of course, we support the proposal on the part of the Left in order to resolve a very specific problem for many Danes. I must inform you that the Conservative People's Party also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206165105	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206165113	Now it has been thoroughly examined what the draft law is all about in its entirety. After all, this is a boring case, where a lot of homeowners have got into trouble, because Gable Insurance in Liechtenstein has gone bankrupt. Instead, I would like to say a few words about what has been important to the Liberal Alliance in concluding this agreement. The guarantee fund for non-life insurance companies is required by law to keep 300 million. kr. in the fund. It is money that has been paid by Danish homeowners through their insurance policies. When this fund is taken off to save the customers who have had their insurance in Gable Insurance, it's crucial that you don't get below this 300 million limit. kr. That would be unfair to the houseowners who have thus helped to pay for it. It has also been crucial for us that in future it will be possible for foreign insurance companies to pay into the guarantee fund. It hasn't been so far. We consider this to be a regulatory error. So legislation has been in place which has not made it possible for foreign insurance companies to pay to the guarantee fund. Everything else equal increases the risk that customers in foreign companies could get hurt. That is being corrected now. We can, of course, endorse the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206165306	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206165314	Thank you. We haven't been in this deal much in the alternative. We heard, of course, like everyone else about the matter, which is serious. From the outset, we also thought that we should do something about that. We also support the urgency proposal here, even though we have not been in the last negotiations. But we were offered to stand here and say that we would also like to back up and perhaps be written in, and we would like to say yes to that. What could now have been done differently, for the same reason I will wait to enter, but it is clear that it is a very inappropriate practice that one can be deceived in this way. And even if it is not completely comparable with the case we are dealing with here, I can only say again about European cooperation, that if we have common rules here and here and therefore do not have to worry about whether a company that is in one country also has a responsibility in the country where you are. But that's another matter. But it is in any case in order to strike a blow to European cooperation, as I stand here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206165416	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206165433	SF's rapporteur, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, cannot be present, so on behalf of the SF I have to say the following: In record time the parties of the Folketing have found a solution for the 26,000 insured persons who have been in serious trouble because of Gable Insurance AG's bankruptcy. I am glad that we have found a solution whereby insurance customers are covered by the guarantee fund. However, this situation also means that we must keep an eye on developments, because it is totally unfair that a foreign company can go bankrupt and that the money to cover it must come from the Guarantee Fund, to which the Liechtenstein company has never paid up. Now we are changing the law so that foreign companies too can pay into the fund, but it is voluntary. That is why we also proposed that the contributions paid by Danish companies today should be replaced by a tax which all, including foreign companies, must pay. Unfortunately, there was no support for this. SF supports this bill and we would like to thank the Danish Parliament's parties for their good cooperation. However, we also stress that this legislative proposal cannot be sure that it will not happen again. A solution should therefore be found so that all policy holders contribute to guarantee funds, even if the company is foreign owned. Until that happens, an insurance offer must clearly indicate it if it is not covered. We will keep a close eye on developments in foreign companies, and then the circle of parties will have to meet again in about a year's time, so that we can evaluate whether that is good enough, because we cannot afford any more scandals of this kind. So we support this bill. And I should like to say from the Enhedslisten that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206165607	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206165612	Thank you. Yes, the alternative rapporteur was a little faster than I had just expected, so there was a slight change in order. This is, of course, the first draft law of the new Minister for Industry, and so we in the Radical Left would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Minister and also to thank him for the progress we have had with this bill and this scandal, which is that this company has gone bankrupt, well to feel a scandal for which the Minister has no responsibility, but which is a company's own fault. The problem has arisen that an insurance company has gone bankrupt, and this means that the many people who have bought insurance in this company are no longer covered. There are some who are wearing their hair in the mailbox because they have to have money from the insurance company because they have incurred expenses for craftsmen at the house they have bought and where they are entitled to compensation. This is of course a very big problem for those people, and there may be even more cases, because many have bought insurance from this Houseowners' Insurance Assurance Agency ApS. We in the Radical Left think that it is a quite obvious market error that some people can be caught because a company goes bankrupt. It is also a company which has not been completely regulated in relation to compliance with marketing rules and all sorts of other rules, so we in the Radical Left think it is safe to say that some of these customers have thought that it was one, if I may put it directly, proper company with which they had bought an insurance policy, and it has turned out to be the opposite. That is why we think it is a good idea that we should now amend this law so that the money in this guarantee fund can come in and help these people and give them the compensation they thought they were actually insured to get. It is clear that this indirectly means that all sorts of others in Denmark are going to pay that these people can get compensation. We think this is fair because these people have been very much in good faith. We are also pleased that we have made an agreement with the government that we are going to tighten up different rules so that hopefully we can come after such a company something faster next time, it might happen what we obviously do not hope it does. However, we are satisfied with the agreement we have made with the government and therefore also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206165849	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Sjúrður Skaale for Javnaðarflokkurin.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206165859	Thank you. I will be very, very brief. The consultation answer to this proposal states that the fund covers claims which have been uncovered as a result of the bankruptcy of the insurance company Gable Insurance AG from policy holders in this country. Furthermore, the wording here in the country refers to insured persons resident in Denmark. The situation is therefore that Danish nationals resident in the Faroe Islands who own houses in Denmark, for example. summer cottage, etc., is not covered by this change of law. I know it is a little complicated and technical, and I am neither a lawyer nor a technician of any kind. I understand that it may be problematic to include all Danish citizens in the bill, but I would ask you to look with positive glasses at that possibility, because now some people are being affected, who are not being covered. So I propose that we look with kindness at the proposal that the wording be changed so that it also includes Danish nationals residing in the Faroe Islands. For example: you could say insured persons in the Kingdom instead of insured persons in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206170011	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206170017	Thank you for the many positive comments on the draft law. After all, this is the basis of a very broad political agreement in which all parties in the Danish Parliament are involved and have joined, and it is a proposal which is intended to resolve a completely unreasonable and unfortunate situation which 26,000 Danish insurers in Gable Insurance AG have been exposed to through the Houseowners' Insurance Assurance Agency. In concrete terms, the draft law extends the scope of the law on the guarantee fund for non-life insurance companies so that the Danish insurers in Gable Insurance AG are given reasonable coverage. And, according to the proposal, Danish customers can be compensated for uncovered damage declared to the fund by 31 March 2017. Customers with building damage insurance will be able to obtain compensation for uncovered damage in cases where the developer has gone or goes bankrupt during the life of the original policy, so that there are no other places where the customer can claim. We have also agreed that for change of ownership insurance there will be a particular self-risk of DKK 20,000. for the first damage to be covered by the Fund. Finally, the bill means that craftsmen and other third parties who have entered into agreements with the Houseowners' Insurance for repairing damage but who have not been paid for work done can have these claims met. I think that with the bill we have found a fair and balanced solution to the problems that many policy holders have encountered following Gable Insurance AG's bankruptcy. At the same time, the estimated cost of the solution must be kept within the 130 million. kr., which is in free funds in the Guarantee Fund for non-life insurance companies, so that there is still the basic capital of the 300 million. kr. There have also been questions about where the liability is. And with all due respect, one can be somewhat puzzled by the course that has been here. That is why I would also like to point out that it is a key element of the political agreement that it is being examined whether responsibility can be exercised against Gable Insurance AG and the Danish agency and whether consumer protection rules have been infringed. The guarantee fund for non-life insurance companies will now have a legal statement on this in order to check whether the parties involved can be held liable for the losses incurred by the insolvency of the insurance company. A few of the rapporteurs have also mentioned the further process, which is, of course, part of the agreement, namely how we get foreign companies into the guarantee fund and how we get a more international dimension to this. We will continue to work on this, and there will be another bill which is expected to be tabled later in this Assembly. It will include a number of further initiatives to help ensure that a similar situation does not arise in the future. As regards the issue of the Faroe Islands, the Faroe Islands themselves have taken back the insurance area, which is why it is very difficult for us to legislate on it in the Danish Parliament. It is therefore a difficult nut to crack when you have taken back assurances that we will then have to make concrete legislation on it in the Danish Parliament. I think it could create a bit of a knot in the Kingdom community if we went in and decided in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206170340	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206170405	The debate is open. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206170424	Thank you. With the resolution, the Enhedslisten wants Denmark to continue to receive the same number of quota refugees as in the last many years. For the Enhedslisten and the parties that may support the proposal, it does not seem to mean much that in recent years we have accepted a historically high number of asylum seekers, 21,000 in 2015 alone, and that Denmark is facing a major challenge in ensuring the proper integration of these very people. This applies especially to the municipalities, which are left with a considerable task of integrating the many who have been granted a residence permit as a refugee in Denmark, and the many who will subsequently be brought together in the family. To this extent, the Government agrees with the proposers that Denmark has a responsibility to help people flee. This applies both to those who have come here and to the refugees who are in the neighbourhood. At the same time, however, we must ensure that we are able to carry out the task that we are undertaking. We must take care of Denmark. We must ensure that the cohesion and fundamental values are intact in our society, and we must ensure that the refugees who come to this country also take Denmark to heart. In this context, it is crucial that the number of refugees in Denmark is kept at a level that is possible to deal with. That is in that light, one has to see the decision not to resettle more quota refugees in 2016, but instead to push the remaining part of the quota and that is to say, a total of 491 seats for later years. It will also give the municipalities a little breathing space and room to take better care of those who have already come here. Does this mean that the government does not want to take quota refugees in the future at all? No, actually, it doesn't. But it is the Government's wish that the number of quota refugees that we will have to accept in the future should be set in a more sensible way. The government wants the quota to be fixed in the future, taking into account the number of asylum seekers coming to Denmark, but also taking into account the situation of those who have already come here, whether they have embraced Denmark and allowed themselves to be integrated into society, whether they contribute positively. The Government is currently considering how a new quota system can be designed most appropriately. However, let me also conclude by mentioning the efforts we are making in the neighbourhood, which make an important contribution to dealing with the international refugee situation, because stronger action in the neighbourhood, in other words close to where the refugees have been displaced, is necessary in order to achieve a sustainable and effective solution to the challenges facing us. Otherwise, we risk many thousands more refugees and migrants going towards Europe and Denmark. The fact is that we can, of course, help far more refugees for the same money by focusing on the outlying areas, while at the same time making it easier for the refugees to return home and rebuild the country from which they come when there is peace again. This is also the reason why the government, with the 2017 Finance Act, has allocated more than 2.3 billion. kr. Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 establishing Horizon 2020 - the Framework Programme for Research and Innovation (2014-2020) and repealing Decision No 1982/2006/EC (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 81). In total, 1 billion goes on. kr. Uncut to close-up efforts in 2016 and 2017, particularly in Syria, but also in neighbouring countries. And the government cannot support the motion for a resolution against this background.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206170840	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206170847	Thank you. After all, the Minister justifies this quota freeze, which must be said both to be quite historic and also unique, since Denmark, as I know, is the only country which has chosen to respond to this worldwide refugee crisis, by saying: we do not want to take any quota refugees. This is justified by the fact that a great many spontaneous asylum seekers arrived last year, and it is also true that many spontaneous asylum seekers arrived last year. What number should we go down on before the government again believes that Denmark can receive quota refugees? And then the Minister will certainly say: that depends on how integration works. And then I would like to ask: how are we going to measure the progress of integration? What are the figures to show if the figures are to be used before Denmark can once again be part of the international system of solidarity which the United Nations quota refugee system is?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206170943	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206170945	It is rare for the questioner to answer the questions himself, but that was a very good answer, because it depends entirely on how the people who then came here as refugees, who were brought together in the family, subsequently manage. And what parameters could that be? It can, for example, be done. be: Do they contribute positively to the labour market? Have they taken Denmark in? Do they participate in cultural life? They don't settle in ghettos? Are they taking part on the education front, in other words they are being trained? Are they doing okay? These may be all such parameters, which is why you can't just put in a single number and say that they have to do that. It depends on how well those who have come here are doing in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171033	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171035	I have two questions. 1) When will the government present another measurement system so that we can get an answer as to when Denmark will again receive quota refugees through the UN? 2) Does the Minister agree with me that a very, very effective way of relieving the areas that we are all talking about and for good reason, because the vast majority of the world's refugees are actually in these famous neighbourhoods, as we know, is through the United Nations quota refugee system. to take a person who has a disability or an elderly single woman releases resources to provide protection for the many millions of refugees who are there?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171122	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171124	To the first one, you can't make an excelark and say that this is exactly what it has to look like, and if all these parameters are met and the number is like that, then you take x number of quota refugees again. Of course, you can't put it up like that. So there is not going to be a measuring system, as Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen said. By the way, I was not aware that Enhedslisten cares so much about measuring systems; it is not usually Enhedslisten. As far as quota refugees are concerned, I would say that this is something that can be said, but there are also many other things that contribute to this, for example. aid in the outlying areas. Of course, the fact that we are turning up the neighbourhood effort and, of course, we are going to give historically a lot of money to the surrounding areas will also relieve the surrounding areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171210	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171216	Thank you. The first question concerns how long we will then have to look at and wait to see whether integration is going well. In other words, the quota refugees we are now putting on hold, how many years will they have to wait before we decide whether things are going well now? We, together with the government, have agreed to the tripartite agreements on better integration into the labour market and quicker clarification of competence, and these are, of course, some things that I hope will work, but how long does the government want to put these people on standby when we say stop quota refugees, because we must first see how integration is going?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171256	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171258	We keep track of how things are going.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171300	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171302	Thank you, but then I do not understand that we cannot get an answer as to how long the government intends to postpone this decision to take quota refugees, because we are constantly being told that very, very few refugees have arrived in Denmark, so we should really have room for them now. But the second question I would like to ask is: does it not at all impress the Minister that the United Nations is calling on the international community both to lay down money, in other words to help financially in the outlying areas, but also to lighten the surrounding areas logistically in order to take more people out of the vicinity because they are burdened because there is simply no room for them in the refugee camp? I find it hard to understand that the Minister is not impressed at all by the fact that the United Nations really is calling on the international community to help on both fronts, both economically and also by taking quota refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171351	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171353	Of course it makes an impression, and that is one of them. That is why it is very gratifying that we can turn up the near-range effort with the money that is being given and which is, of course, at an historically high level now. In addition, the 21,000, well and well, who have been applied to Denmark as asylum seekers last year, are also people who relieve the surrounding areas. So there is no doubt that, in my opinion, we are putting a great deal of pressure on the neighbourhood. I believe that we should have fewer asylum seekers for Denmark. That's why we're tightening up. To put it quite squarely and quite frankly: I think I have a very, very great obligation to take good care of Denmark, take good care of the value set, the foundation we have here, and I think we do this best by getting fewer asylum seekers to Denmark and thus also by saying stop for quota refugees in this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171441	Thank you, Minister. The next question is Mr. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171444	Thank you. I understand that the Minister is not really going to decide when, if necessary, quota refugees could be taken, and I understand that, because that is the position of my party itself. But then perhaps the Minister could try to get a little closer and answer whether you imagine it, for example. could stay during 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171507	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171509	I would say that once again it is a complete question of how the refugees who have come to Denmark will manage: are they going to be on the labour market? Are they taking Denmark in? What about the number of family members? And on top of that, how many asylum seekers will be coming to Denmark for the rest of 2016, but of course also into 2017? So it all depends on the overall picture, and I understand that there is support from the Socialist side, and I am of course very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171539	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171541	When I ask, it is of course because, on a question from the Committee on Finance, the Minister has replied that we are budgeting for 500 quota refugees next year. So perhaps the Minister could also confirm that this must mean that, at some point next year, we are going to carry out that evaluation and justify what decision is then reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171606	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171606-2	As I have said, we are constantly monitoring, but I can say that for 2016 there were also budgeted to take 500 quota refugees, and we have not done so, and that is for the reasons I have already mentioned, namely that we must also be able to keep up with regard to the integration of the people who have come here, and that is why we have chosen to postpone it so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171627	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171630	I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister and the government generally support the quota system, i.e. that the UN has a quota allocation system.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171642	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171644	Yes, we do, but it must be with due regard for the fact that we must also be able to keep up, and it has to be said that this is difficult, with the number of refugees and asylum seekers in general that we have seen coming to Denmark in previous years.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171659	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171701	Will the Minister and the Government encourage other countries to continue to take quota refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171707	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171708	No, that is, I am neither in the habit of writing letters nor of encouraging other countries to conduct their policies in a certain way. It may well be that I sometimes have an opinion on how, for example. The Swedes should pursue their foreign policy, which I do not agree with, but that does not change the fact that I am not going to Sweden to argue that they should introduce a Danish model there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171730	Thank you, Minister. The next question is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171734	The minister argues with Danish values and says that it is a Danish value that we should take care of Denmark. But is it not also a Danish value that we should respect the UN? Since 1945, has it not been absolutely crucial in Denmark's relations with the outside world that we have had a very close relationship with the UN, that we believe that the UN is important and that this is one of the reasons why we have always accepted these quota refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171805	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171807	Now I did not quite say that it was a Danish value I think it is a prerequisite First of all, we have accepted exceptionally many spontaneous asylum seekers, especially in 2015, so we are already very, very high there. Secondly, however, as I have already mentioned, we are giving an historic amount of money to the neighbourhood effort, and that is where we are very, very well compared with other countries. So I certainly do not think we have anything to apologize for or in any form come creeping when it comes to the UN system.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171903	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171904	I can certainly see that the Left Party has historically been very close to the United Nations and has placed great emphasis on the UN refugee system. Poul Hartling was the High Commissioner for Refugees and put great emphasis on it and made it a matter of faith within the Left. But I can only say that the Left is also degenerate in this area, that is to say that people today simply do not care about the United Nations. Yes, it means something like that in rhetoric, but in reality it does not mean anything to the Left. I find that very sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171932	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171934	That's gotta be for sir. Holger K. Nielsen's own bill. I do not regard the Left as a degenerate party, because we want to take good care of Denmark and the set of values and the foundation of values of freedom that generations before us have laid in Denmark, actually quite the opposite. I think this is a proud period for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206171958	There are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206172013	Thank you. Social democracy believes that the number of new refugees to Denmark has an impact on our ability to ensure successful integration. In the current situation, where Denmark has accepted an exceptionally large number in recent years, our country is extremely challenged. That is why it makes sense to adjust the number of quota refugees. At the same time, we recognise that there are some quota refugees who are very vulnerable and particularly vulnerable. This applies to the sick and disabled who are covered by the so-called twenty-or-more scheme. They are being badly hit. We must pay particular attention to those groups, and we believe that a solution should be found for them, even during the period when the reception of quota refugees is generally suspended. At the same time, the Social Democratic Party stresses that the suspension of quota refugees must be temporary and that we basically support the scheme whereby Denmark, in agreement with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, receives a number of refugees annually. I would like to see strong and targeted community action as the most important foundation for helping as many people as possible escape, and we in my party therefore want to increase aid in the neighbourhood. Those things have to be seen in context. It is the policy of social democracy that we must go where the number of spontaneous asylum seekers and migrants coming to the borders of Europe and Denmark is reduced to a minimum. The current situation, in which thousands of people risk their lives on the journey to Europe, is obviously not appropriate. It must not and must not be those who have the most money, are the most brave and strong who get asylum and thus push others, who may have even greater needs, in the back of the queue. We would rather work together with the other EU countries for a system in which people seek asylum from a third country rather than at European borders. In this way, we will also have a large part of the basis for the cynical business model of traffickers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206172225	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206172230	Thanks for the speech. I will start with two questions. First, Mr. Dan Jørgensen has a question for the Minister, namely whether in 2017 this quota refugee stop would be dropped. Do the Social Democrats think we should drop this quota-refugee stop in 2017? So far, Denmark has actually received quite a few spontaneous asylum seekers. That is one question. The second question is: I understand that the Socialists do not think it is a good idea that the group called twenty or more is, for example, that it is. people with disabilities are affected. Can the Social Democrats back the government's quota freeze if there is no solution to this with the so-called twenty or more?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206172319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206172320	Yes, on the first question, I must say that we cannot answer that now. When I asked the Minister about this, it is because what is quite interesting is what kind of assessment should be behind it. I believe that we should constantly consider whether we can stop the suspension, that is to say to take quota refugees again, and I think that this is at least something that needs to be done once a year. But it is clear that the analysis that must be the basis for this must, of course, be thorough and we need to set up some criteria. That is why we in my party have also suggested in the past that a thorough analysis should be made of how many refugees Denmark can actually take and capture and integrate properly. It must be an analysis both of the education sector, analysing the health sector, analysing the housing situation, analysing the labour market, and, as such, it must also be an analysis which is repeated year after year. Moreover, such an analysis will also be important for a great many other reasons. On the second question: well, it's the government's prerogative to make this decision. We support the overall resolution, namely to stop taking these refugees, but we are not called for negotiations, so we have the opportunity to table amendments or to change the details of them. But our position is that we would like a solution to be found for this extra vulnerable group.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206172439	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206172440	I still think it might be interesting to hear whether this so-called twenty or more is so important to the Socialists that it is actually going to be said that if there is no solution for them, then we do not support this quota freeze. I would like an answer to that. Then I'd like to read a quote out loud. It's from the Swedish Stefan Löfven. After all, Sweden has chosen to increase the number of quota refugees, just as a large number of other countries have chosen to respond to this world-historical refugee crisis by saying that then you raise the quota. Löfven says: I believe that more and more people understand that it is absolutely necessary for more people to take greater responsibility because we have a major refugee crisis and that many of the countries that accept so many need help. Several people realize that if we don't help each other, it's gonna get worse for everyone. There is just one solution: to help each other. Are the Social Democrats not in complete agreement? The only way we can solve this refugee crisis is by helping between countries. And one of the very best tools we have for this is precisely the United Nations quota refugee regime, in other words the system that the Socialists now support to stop.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206172551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206172552	In fact, we would rather see a situation where we only received quota refugees, where there was only one distribution that way around. It would have many positive effects. But now the situation is just that we have already received and received so many refugees in recent years that we are more than fulfilling the obligations we have if we are to talk about a community that makes sense. What happens, after all, if you follow the policy pursued by the Swedes, is that we put ourselves in a situation which is a definite danger to the Danish welfare community, as the Swedes have also discovered with their own. After all, the Swedes have been forced to introduce ID control, that is. That if you haven't got your passport with you when you run out of the burning building, now to use an expression and a picture that I know the questioner's own party has sometimes used, well then you won't get asylum in the so-called humanistic superpower Sweden. Why? Because all of a sudden they've gotten mean and don't want to be together? No, of course not, but because they have been so pressured because they have not tightened up, because they have not taken it seriously, that the number matters, that they have now had to introduce this rather harsh requirement. So, yes, we would like to see a situation where quota refugees played a greater role, but in the present situation we support the possibility. And that is also the answer to the second question: yes, we support basically. We just wanted to change this twenty and more scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206172710	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206172714	Thank you. What I do not want to say surprises me, but I wonder, is that the Social Democrats back the overall line when Mr. Dan Jørgensen is actually saying that people would like us to accept the Twenty or More scheme. Then I think it is a pity that you support the overall line. Because it's some of the most vulnerable people we're talking about, these people with disabilities. But does it not at all impress the Social Democrats that the United Nations is currently out to say that it is absolutely essential that the world community both assists financially in the outlying areas, but also helps in the outlying areas, by relieving the surrounding areas and accepting quota refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206172753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206172754	Of course it makes an impression. As I also said in my speech, we also believe that much more needs to be done in the neighbourhoods. So we have even assumed an ambition to set up a system where it is only quota refugees, in other words, where applications are not dealt with at the Danish border but outside the European border, and then some sort of distribution is made from there. It is, moreover, a model on which Danish Refugee Aid and quite a lot of others, even the Radicals, I think, have said something positive. So, yes, it makes an impression. But I also think it has to be said that this is not a straightforward solution. This is not something that will be introduced tomorrow. So shall we say: until then, do we just open our borders? Then I know there are some who will say that it is to caricate the position of those who are opposed to this. I can hear Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen saying that. What is just why I keep saying this is that I have not heard a single proposal from the Enhedslisten or the author's party to how we can then limit the number. You acknowledge that the number matters, but every time other parties propose something that can limit the number, you are against it. This means that if you followed your policy, it would be, not just Swedish conditions, but even more, because the Swedes have actually tightened up, even with things that you would also be against if we proposed them in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206172913	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206172915	Well, I actually think it's kind of paradoxical that sir. Dan Jørgensen has just mentioned a distribution mechanism so that we can agree on what kind of refugees are going to Europe, but at the same time say no to the quota refugee system. Because that's exactly the system we have. The quota refugee system is precisely about people who have acquired refugee status and where the UN goes in and asks us to take them. Then it is not true that what we are discussing is that the borders should only be opened. We are talking about the fact that we have to accept 500 quota refugees and that it has now been postponed, and I would like to ask: should it be postponed indefinitely?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206173000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206173002	It can be said that this is not correct. In other words, the questioner himself does not use the expression that then the borders should only be opened, but the questioner has de facto been against all the tightenings and even proposed some relaxations, i.e... considerably more refugees to Denmark. And it is not, of course, because it is not possible to think that this is at least theoretically sympathetic, but it is not very sympathetic if you look at what concrete effects it will have, even to those refugees who will then come to Denmark and whose chance of integration will be dramatically minimized. You have to do something about the number, and one of the few things you can do at this time is this. Whether it's indefinitely? Yes, it is indefinitely so far, because we do not have the opportunity to say when the situation will be so much better that we can accept it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206173052	The next question is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206173055	It impresses me anyway, if the laws of jewelry and detention are for the refugees themselves, but leave it alone. What I heard, sir. Dan Jørgensen spoke about this, and we have quite rightly praised this in the Radical Left, the change of course which appears to be on the part of the new government and perhaps also on the part of the Social Democratic Party in relation to receiving refugees jointly within the European Union and distributing them. It is just that the Social Democratic Party has been opposed to a common EU distribution so far. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether, in this context, this does not require a common EU distribution if we are to succeed in this proper treatment. So I would like to ask the rapporteur in relation to the quota system and the areas around him: what is sufficient help for the neighbourhoods to deal with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206173150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206173152	I hardly know where to start, because there are so many things both implicit and explicit in what the questioner is saying here. Jewellery law and internment So the difference between the author's party and my party is that we sit at the table and actually have an influence on something, among other things. That the law of jewelry should not be about jewelry. It's our fault. That's because we sat with him. With the original proposal, you could take the jewelry from people. That's where we got in that you couldn't do it. The questioner, who also says that the number means something, has not come up with a single proposal on how to do something about the number, but has voted against everything relating to numbers, and then allows himself to try to get involved in a narrative which the questioner knows very well does not fit. The questioner knows that very well. The questioner makes himself aware of what we meant and what we did not mean, but so, Henrik Sass Larsen suggested in an interview a few months ago also before it was a very formulated and substantiated policy on the part of my party, it has been this later that we should be able to accept and deal with asylum applications outside the borders of Europe. At that time the outrage was very great in the Radicals. Later that proposal has actually been supported by both the government and Danish Refugee Aid, and then I can see that now the Radicals suddenly think it is a very good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206173309	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206173311	I'm really glad to have misunderstood Mr. Knox. Henrik Sass Larsen's speech back then, which was merely about us putting them in camps outside Europe. But listen to me: I am just listening to the rapporteur's statements now, that is to say what the rapporteur is presenting. And now I ask the rapporteur again: what does it take to ensure that these areas can handle this task, if we do not do so, for example? Denmark and also other countries that are part of the quota system, which I hear the support of the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party for the granting of quota refugees in the coming years?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206173343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206173345	Unfortunately, I do not believe that this will succeed in the coming years. I therefore hope that this will be achieved at some point, but in the years to come I do not think so, because what I personally believe was needed, when the rapporteur of the Radicals asks about it, is a help similar to Marshall aid. That's a lot more money. I believe that the individual nation states can contribute to this, but I also believe that there is a huge space in the European budget to move expenditure items for these purposes. And I am sure that, if we want to take economic considerations into account at last, it will also be rational at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206173419	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206173423	Well, I have to say that the social democratic attitude towards the United Nations is something that puzzles me. It has simply been social democratic thinking, it has been almost sacrosanct since 1945, that the United Nations is an absolutely crucial element in our international system. For many years Christian Kelm-Hansen was the first man in parliament in the field he fought for it constantly, and in recent years it has been uphill to get respect for the UN back here in the Folketing. Actually, it has been. There are many members of parliament who do not attach any importance to it. Many strange things are said with the UN. We can't take care of that. What the UN does doesn't matter. In fact, this is something that is often heard here in the Folketing, also by pretty prominent politicians. That is why I would like to ask the Socialist rapporteur: is it not, like also, a little important that we maintain Denmark's good reputation and reputation about our approach to the UN, our responsibility towards the UN, including that we can continue to accept UN quota refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206173538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206173540	Although I do not quite have the same experience as the questioner here in the Danish Parliament, I do know a little about our party's policy. I am writing on a book about it right now so that I can confirm that the UN has always been extremely important in our party, but I can also confirm that this does not mean that we are being uncritical. There have been many times when the United Nations has failed to act where the United Nations was to act, including when it had disastrous consequences. So it has been a UN that is not capable of action enough. I guess that's what we're seeing now. We think, as I have said a few times now in this debate, that it would be better if the United Nations were responsible for the treatment of asylum seekers outside the borders of the European Union. It is clear that it would also mean that the European Union should have a better system, it goes without saying, but that we only took quota refugees. It is clear that this is what we want, so we are not unambitious on behalf of the United Nations, we are more ambitious, but we must also note, and, as I have said to the two previous authors, I must also say to the current question that if your party actually believes that the number matters, it is no use that you are against all the things that actually limit the number.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206173645	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206173650	No, but what is the problem with the UN is that the Member States downgrade it. The United Nations itself is nothing without looking at the countries that are members, and there is a consistent downgrading of the UN in many parts of the world. Dan Jørgensen says here that the UN is ineffective, the UN cannot do it and cannot do it, and that is why we cannot attach any importance to the UN. This is the talk about the UN, which is so problematic and which I think is quite new to the social democratic tradition.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206173734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206173736	It's lucky for me. It may be inappropriate to say this from the platform, but I am actually a huge fan of the questioner and think that we spend far too little time with each other, so I would like to invite the questioner to my office one day next week. You can barely get in because there are books everywhere. There are books everywhere because, as I said, I'm looking at our story right now. Then I should like to go through all the times when we have dealt critically constructively with the UN, but of course on the bottom line, not because we want the UN to do badly, on the contrary. We want the United Nations to do this because we want more solutions via the United Nations, and I do not believe that the questioner and I disagree so much that there are some areas in the way the United Nations operates at times, for example. in relation to the right of veto for some dictatorship states that are not so good.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206173821	It is possible that the rapporteur is a fan of Mr. Holger K. Nielsen. Nevertheless, the rapporteur should refer to him in the third person another time. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Langballe as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206173841	I think it's a well-known case where we're on this issue. There has been a massive migration and migration of refugees towards Denmark over the last few decades, which has resulted in a change of population in Denmark. This will and will have the consequences that Denmark will be dissolved and destroyed in the long term. Perhaps I think that the human friends, who also speak out here in the Folketing, should consider which country we pass on to our children and grandchildren. I don't think we can be that familiar. We create parallel societies. We're gonna disband the country. The culture of the country is being dissolved and, while we are being blamed, we are actually doing something to protect the beautiful country that we have inherited ourselves. We would like to see the borders closed. I would say that we could actually be involved in taking quota refugees. We could do that if, at the same time, it means that the border is rejected, that is. That it's being shut off completely. Then we could join in receiving these 500 quota refugees. We would also encourage the government to think further in that direction, if that is what you want. Then we will be constructive in creating a system where you actually help choose which people come up here. That is the case with the United Nations quota refugees. We can decide for ourselves which people come up here. This means that it will be people who will be able to live in Denmark without causing the major problems. But that requires the borders to be closed. This requires our immediate rejection at the border. So it will not be a question of saying 'yes' to cows of people outside the European Union at asylum centres. This would mean that we would simply move the people who cross our borders from the border to countries outside the European Union where they can apply to come to Denmark. We do not want to be a part of that, nor do we want to be a part of a common allocation key. But with all the words I have said, it will be a no to this proposal unless there is a majority in favour of rejecting it at the border.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206174115	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Next in line, sir. Marcus Knuth as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206174125	Thank you. The motion for a resolution seeks to reverse the government's decision to pause the reception of quota refugees. It will hardly come as a surprise when I say that it will not be with the support of the Left within a foreseeable period. When the Left makes policy, we take the opposite of the proposers' starting point in reality. It is a reality that means that Denmark and especially Denmark's municipalities have been and still are historically pressured by the thousands of asylum seekers we have received in recent years. I would remind you that last year we received up to 21 000 asylum seekers. Some of these people are still away looking for family reunion. Because there has been such pressure on Denmark, the Left and the Government have decided to suspend the quota refugee scheme. It is a decision that comes as a natural consequence of the fact that in the last year Europe has been broken open and incredibly many have sought, in particular, the Scandinavian welfare societies. A picture that is very close to my heart at least was when last year we saw hundreds of refugees wandering up the motorways at home on my Lolland. So I think that if you say that we have not been in an exceptional situation, that would be an understatement. That is why it is absolutely essential for the ongoing integration effort that we take proper responsibility. We have chosen to do this by putting the reception of quota refugees on standby. We intend to continue to do so for now. That is why the Left is voting against the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206174302	There is a brief comment from Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206174307	We're talking about 500 people a year, 500 people! It is 500 people who are, in fact, very much helping to relieve the proximity areas which I know Mr. Marcus Knuth talks about a lot. They do so in such a way that they often select those refugees in the neighbourhood who have a special need for protection. So resources are being released in these very famous neighbourhoods, for example. to say to the single elderly woman: Now we give you the possibility of resettlement in e.g. Denmark. In this way, the neighbourhoods will be given more resources to protect the millions of refugees who are there. To Mr. Marcus Knuth: I do not think that Denmark breaks by taking 500 quota refugees a year. I believe that Denmark is strong enough for us to be able to take 500 quota refugees a year. Thinks sir. Marcus Knuth, that Denmark breaks if we take 500 quota refugees a year?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206174406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206174408	The Left has a very clear policy and that is to reduce the number of refugees and asylum seekers in Denmark as much as possible. There we have a number of tools that we use, and this is one of them. We have tightened up many areas. If we took another 500, we'd have an additional integration task with these 500 people. In view of the fact that there were 21,000 last year, some of which, as I said, are seeking family reunification, but then 500 make a difference. In order to facilitate the task for the municipalities and to facilitate the task for society, we choose to put this on hold for now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206174443	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206174445	I know, sir. Marcus Knuth agrees with me that we should try to stop criminal traffickers. I know, sir. Marcus Knuth agrees with me that we must do everything we can to stabilise the surrounding areas, partly because it makes sense that this is where refugees are being helped, because it is close to the place from which they come, partly because it is there, 90%. of the world's refugees are staying. I also know that Mr. Marcus Knuth agrees with me that there are all kinds of injustices in the asylum system, in other words that those who have something they can sell and who can thereby pay a smuggler have a better chance of obtaining protection than those who do not. Is it not the case that the quota refugee system is precisely putting an end to all these injustices? You get around the smuggler, you make sure that those who are most in need are protected and you take care of the surrounding areas that we talk so much about.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206174539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206174541	Listen, whether we take 500 or 1,000, we do not solve the problem in the neighbourhood. The problem in the outlying areas will be solved by a massive effort in the neighbourhood. This is what we choose to prioritise. Denmark, if we take Syria as an example, is one of the countries in the world that, compared to our size, makes allerallermost. We have programs that are deep inside Syria itself. It helps people in areas that you can't even reach. Whether we take 500 or not does not change the situation, for example. Syria. What matters in relation to home is that we have an integration challenge that we actually have to deal with, and there is a goal to reduce as much as possible the number of refugees and asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206174622	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206174635	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that Denmark has received more refugees than we can integrate in a good and proper way. In 2015 we saw the consequences of record refugees, both municipalities and other authorities had difficulty keeping up, and on that basis we can see the reason why Denmark needs a breathing space in relation to accepting quota refugees. The quotas do not take into account how many refugees we have already received. Against this background, we intend to vote against the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206174715	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206174737	Thank you. There should be no doubt that in the Optics of the Alternative Denmark's participation in and continued support for the quota system is extremely crucial right now. This is crucial because at present there are historically many people fleeing war and persecution who need protection. We know that more than 65 million people have been displaced and that they cannot live where they normally have their homes. It is a terrible and deeply worrying situation that we, as an international community, find ourselves in, and that is why we have an obligation to each other both for our own sake and for the sake of other people and for the sake of the whole world community. As I see it, there is no doubt that at the moment we grope a little more day by day after some answers, and sometimes we are presented and sometimes no solutions are presented. We are beginning to close borders with fences and guards, we are undermining the conditions and rights of refugees, and we are also trying to contain the opportunities they have to escape. There it is, of course, that in the alternative we see the quota system as one of the solutions that are extremely crucial for finding common solutions to precisely those issues. We know that the quota system is very effective when it comes to combating trafficking in human beings, something that we all agree on is something that is awful. We know that if we take quota refugees and we know that we come to the United Nations, we are urging the United Nations to take this situation very seriously, but that requires us to back up the quota system. Some of the things that have not been addressed, I think, by the other rapporteurs who have been up here on the platform and who do not support us taking quota refugees are, in fact, the fact that there are countries, including countries in the neighbourhood, who are going to ask the question: why are we going to step in and help in this situation? So we support Enhedslisten's proposal. We think it is crucial that we support the quota system precisely in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206175005	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206175010	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur recognises that there is a link between how many refugees are coming to Denmark and our ability to integrate, and whether the rapporteur also believes that there is a need to do something about the number. And if you can answer that in the affirmative, what is to be done when all the proposals that we others make are always rejected by the rapporteur? Do you have just one proposal that could bring down the number if you think that the number should be reduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206175041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206175043	The proposal that the Alternative really had back from last summer, I think, and I could hear that some of it at least escaped with it, Mr President. Dan Jørgensen mentioned up here from the platform that we have said that there should be a Marshall aid in the areas in question, and we have said that we think it would be interesting to create a collection centre outside the Schengen borders so that refugees could actually be registered there and that they were distributed together in Europe. This requires common European solutions in terms of recognising that model. At the same time, we also said that we would like to have collection centres within the Schengen border. This requires a common European solution once again, and that is what we have been advocating all the way. This would provide proper and sensible conditions for the people who are refugees and whom we believe we should accept, including in Denmark, and in this way we would also be subjugating the traffickers. That is, in fact, what the quota system is also proposing here, and that is why we are in favour of the quota system.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206175146	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206175148	Okay, but those proposals are proposals which, if they are ever to be implemented, are far-reaching in the future. I think everyone must agree on that. And if that finally happened, it would also require that Denmark no longer have its reservations in that area in the European Union. So I would like to ask: does the alternative have any suggestions as to what could be done just in the next five years? And then I would also like to hear: what if the number explodes again, is there any number that will be so high that the alternative will help to tighten up in Denmark and in Danish legislation, or does the number matter? Can there really be an unlimited number of refugees in Denmark, and then the alternative will still not be tight in Denmark, because it has to be this unfortunately unrealistic one even though it may be sympathetic to international solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206175238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206175240	I mean, I don't think it's unrealistic at all. We need to make international solutions to the massive problem we are facing. We have 65 million people on the run. That is why I think that is why we have not supported the solutions so far, the previous austerity measures that Denmark has aimed directly at the bottom, in fact aimed at becoming the worst example at all. And that is an example that others follow. That's why we're in this situation where we have a world community that doesn't know what to do about it. I would still venture to claim that we have room and opportunity and advice to integrate 500 quota refugees per year. years.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206175315	Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206175319	My question is actually quite simple: where does the limit number go for how many alternatives will receive 500 million, 2 million? Well, I'm just asking, because I've never heard the alternative address that this should be a problem for Denmark in terms of numbers. I've never heard it, never. We have always wanted to be a human being, but we have never taken seriously, so to speak, the problem of integration or the problems we face. That is why you can see that the reluctance around the various countries is increasing. It is because they are getting the problems close and can see that this is not just something that is solved by a snap or by a tribute to human rights. And it is concrete people around Europe who are feeling the pressure from immigration.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206175419	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206175421	There was both a statement or a remark and a question in this and, if I may take the statement/marking first, I would say that some of what I think is extremely important is that we have a completely different way of talking about this. I believe that this can be a huge gain for Danish society, and I think that as a society we need to look very seriously at the fact that so many people are fleeing. We can't just close the borders. Then I can't answer the number. This is the kind of number game we enjoy here in the Folketing. I note that the Danish People's Party means zero, as I understand it. I do not agree with that. I believe that Denmark can welcome these refugees. For the time being, we have been able to welcome all those who have come, and we can also welcome another 500 quota refugees. Thus, even in our draft budget, we have proposed a figure of 2 000 quota refugees a year, so we believe that it would be possible to take that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206175516	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206175518	Yeah, but I'm just gonna have to say that the alternative, like a lot of other people, just sticks its head in the sand and says, "Doesn't hear, doesn't see." We simply do not want to see any problems at all, and that is where we disagree. We simply disagree, because at the fine addresses and where you are not confronted with these problems, they say that there is peace and no danger: that is not a problem at all. And then there are other people, and these are the ones you usually call social class 5, or what you say is that are faced with these problems every day. Why don't we take their protest seriously? That's what the alternative refuses to do. You refuse to deal with the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206175559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206175600	We must certainly take people's concerns seriously, both in Denmark, but also in the rest of the world. And we need to recognise, I think, that we are part of an international society. We cannot just stick our heads in the sand and pretend that there are not many refugees in the world. That is why we need to focus on several parameters. We must ensure that there is development aid. We must ensure that there is financial aid in the neighbourhood. And we also have to make sure that we relieve the proximity areas of Denmark while having a proper policy at home to ensure that these people feel welcome and thus also, of course, as soon as possible, become part of the Danish society, where we get to know them as our neighbours, our colleagues and our good friends.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206175642	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206175653	Thank you. In the Radical Left, too, we support this resolution, and we do so because we believe that we must maintain our commitments at the United Nations. That is what we signed and agreed on when we signed the refugee convention. That's kind of the story we're standing on our shoulders. The convention came into existence in 1951. World War II was just over and, as you know, we had not agreed on how we would protect refugees in the world, and therefore millions of people were left behind. Europe was to be rebuilt. That is why we agreed on these common guidelines and common rules on how to protect refugees, and a quota on how to remedy it for the most vulnerable of them, so that the proximity areas should not hold up. That's the story we're on. It is the very weakest refugees who are being helped with the quota system, and when we talk about this, and many people do so, that we have to help in the outlying areas, we have to say that the most obvious form of aid is to stick to the quota system, which just lifts the small part, which has the hardest part, out of the very hard-pressed neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206175842	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206175847	Thank you. I was not really going to ask the rapporteur a question, because I think we have been through this debate so many times, but I cannot help it anyway. The rapporteur keeps coming back to the fact that the solution to the refugee situation is the redistribution in Europe. I am opposed in principle to redistribution, but let us now say that we are in favour of it, so we will soon come to the conclusion that the attempt at redistribution that has been made in Europe has failed 100%. Well, it's not working. Experience has shown that if you start moving people from Germany where they want to be, to Poland, where they do not want to be with a government and in a country that does not want them to be there simply not working. It has been tried for almost two years. How can the rapporteur still stand here and say that redistribution is the solution when the last two years have shown that it just does not work?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206175939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206175940	It's very interesting when you're standing here discussing history. After all, the Refugee Convention came into being because the countries looked each other in the eye and said: it does not seem to work with what we have done so far, perhaps we should do it in a different way and commit each other in a different way. It is, of course, the case that European cooperation has also developed and we have now reached a place where we do not solve any problems. We are pushing them around between each other and nothing is solved, I fully agree with Mr Tugendhat. Marcus Knuth in. Nothing will be solved with the approach that Mr. Marcus Knuth has for European cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206180019	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206180020	Let us then go a hypothetical step further and say that European cooperation worked and that all countries actually wanted to do so here. You send, for example. refugees who want to be in Germany, to Romania or Slovenia or to Ireland, where they may not want to be, and since we have open borders in Europe, they sit on the train and take the trip back again. I mean, the redistribution in Europe just doesn't work for 25 different really, very good reasons. There's not a good reason why it should work. It just doesn't work. How can you look at a solution that obviously doesn't work and say that this is the solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206180057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206180058	Sir. Marcus Knuth has not presented me with alternatives, and now it is not the case that we in the Radical Left are alone in putting forward proposals for European solutions. Many other European countries have done so. In fact, a large majority of European countries are in favour of finding common redistribution solutions, and there is Denmark in a minority of the countries of the European Union. If you sat down and talked about how to figure out how to get common rules for this and abide by the proposal on the table, you might have gone a little further.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206180135	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206180152	I would like to thank Enhedslisten for making this proposal. It is positive that there was a response to the government's decision to close down to welcome quota refugees from the UN. I have to say that the defence of that decision is that there are limits to how many we can take. And that's true. But the price of this proposal is very, very high it is very, very high because it has consequences in terms of our relations with the international community and with the United Nations. And if we are to have a chance at all to deal with refugee problems now and in the next few years, we just have to recognise that we cannot do this on a national basis alone, we simply cannot. No one can. There you have to activate the international forums where we are. It is the European Union in certain contexts, but it is indeed the United Nations. It was said that the 500 a year that we are not taking here has no significance in relation to the millions of refugees in the neighbourhood. Isolatedly: no. However, I can guarantee that the efforts of many other countries, which also take refugees via the UN, are indeed important everywhere in the world. I spoke to the Canadian ambassador here recently. She told me how many Canada takes, so that's a lot. The United States also takes many. Countries around the world are taking refugees on this premise, and that means that we are completely out of that discussion. I think the price is very, very high. I must say I think so. So you say, 500 from or through, that means a lot. No, it doesn't. It matters, yes, of course it does, but I do not think it means so much that the price is worth paying, compared with what we lose of opportunities to influence international discussions in this area. I guarantee that this will not be solved by Denmark alone. In any case, we need to get cooperation outside the country's borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206180440	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. I do not see the Conservative rapporteur in the Chamber. I therefore give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206180451	Thank you for the discussion in this Chamber today. I think that this resolution is so fundamental and actually so important for Denmark, also historically, that it is quite reasonable for us to discuss it in the Assembly rather than just such an administrative government decision. Politicians from the three governing parties have been criticising our asylum system for many years now for being unfair. Only those refugees who can afford to pay criminals and traffickers for their help can reach Denmark for protection. Those refugees who do not have so much money, but just as much need for protection, are left in the neighbourhood. That is how the criticism has been made, and I agree with it a long way along the way. It is absolutely essential that we not only help those who have the resources to pay a smuggler to transport themselves to Europe. It is quite obviously bad that organised criminals earn millions of dollars because there are people who are forced to flee. The United Nations system of quota refugees, of which Denmark has been a part since 1979, is for me to see an example of exactly what everyone is calling for, namely a system in which we actually help regardless of economic capacity and regardless of physical capacity, because it is no secret that it is dangerous to flee. The trip across the Mediterranean in a dubbing boat, which unfortunately has a high risk of sinking, means for many that many hours have to be spent in cold water. We all know that a child's body can survive less time in this cold water than a grown man's body, for example. Can. So physical ability also plays a role. I also believe that everyone who deals with the refugee area knows that women are in significantly greater danger when they are on the run than men. A lot of women fleeing are subjected to horrible forms of abuse. The injustices, that is, that our gender and our physics and our age also play a role in achieving somewhere that can provide protection, are, of course, one of the things that we can rightly criticise our asylum system for not preventing, but which the United Nations quota refugee system is helping to prevent. The quota refugee system helps regardless of physical capacity, regardless of financial capacity. You make criminal smugglers redundant. That is why I wanted to say that I was surprised, but that would perhaps be a lie, and we must not lie, but at least sadly when the government presented the 2025 plan of the Left Government in August, where I read that the reception of quota refugees would be suspended indefinitely. From now on, and as long as this quota cease-fire persists, only the refugees can afford to pay a criminal smuggler who has the opportunity to seek protection here in Denmark. Those who in many contexts are referred to as "and I think it is a misnomer's expression 'the right refugees' are cut off. As far as I know, Denmark is the only country that has chosen to respond to this refugee crisis, which is therefore historic. "Historical" is such a concept that is thrown around at Christiansborg... it's used a little too often... but that's exactly what this refugee crisis is all about. Denmark, as the only country I know, has chosen to respond to the historic refugee crisis by saying stop: we are not taking any more quota refugees. I think we should go the opposite way, as many other countries have done, and say: in such a serious situation, it is even more important that we strengthen these common solutions. In time and prematurely, I was going to say that there is talk of helping in the neighbourhood, not least from government parties, and I agree. That is why I think it is so extremely sad that we have chosen to cut development aid. I know that aid for emergency aid has been slightly increased, but overall development aid is being cut. I find that extremely sad. However, that is to say, there is talk in time and prematurely about the neighbourhoods. A decisive hand-out to the surrounding areas is the quota refugee scheme. In other words, if we can support these neighbourhoods by providing protection to some of those who are particularly at risk, it could be a single woman, it could be a person with disabilities, it could be a child who has no parents, it could be an elderly woman who is alone, then we are releasing a lot of resources in these neighbourhoods that we all agree on bearing the main responsibility and, at least, it is in relation to solving the world's refugee problem. So I think the hypocrisy becomes quite grotesque when I read the government basis of the new government, the ink is barely dry. Here we are talking about a new asylum system, which must be based on seeking asylum from a third country because, as it says on page 54 of the government's constitution, we must move away from a system that gives priority to asylum seekers who have money and strength and which supports the cynical business model of traffickers. I agree with that objective. The quota refugee system is precisely such a system. It should be expanded, it should be extended. After all, in practice, the government goes the opposite way to what is written in its own government basis by making a quota refugee stop for an indefinite period. So it was not surprising to me that there would be no support for our motion for a resolution today, but I think, as I said, that it is such a decision of principle, and indeed, historically, I say again, in the sense that it was in happy Anker Jørgensen's time back in 1979 that Denmark decided to join this quota refugee scheme. I think that the discussion is so fundamental that it should be held in the Chamber, but I am not surprised, as I said, that there is no support for it. Nevertheless, I would like to express a silent hope that the majority will come to a better view as soon as possible. In a world of 60-65 million displaced people more than ever since World War II, perhaps more than ever, we need to support and strengthen the common solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206181208	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206181225	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration to begin with. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206181250	The proposers have specifically proposed that it be ensured that a municipality may accommodate refugees in a temporary residence in another municipality only if the other municipality agrees. I agree with that, and I have already indicated it, among other things. in a reply to the Folketing at the beginning of October that this is my recommendation. I just do not agree that this is an amendment that can carry its own legislative proposal or that it should be tabled by the end of January 2017. I would like to come back to that briefly, but first a few words about the model of housing for refugees that we are dealing with here. In Denmark today we have a well-functioning quota system that ensures that new refugees are distributed evenly throughout the country. The municipality to which a refugee is visited shall, where possible, designate a permanent residence for the person concerned. Until then, the municipality may assign the refugees to a temporary residence. In some cases it may be appropriate for municipalities across municipal boundaries to be able to help each other with housing placement for a period of time. There is nothing to prevent this from happening in the legislation, but this is only true in relation to temporary housing, and therefore, legally speaking, refugees still belong in the municipality which has been given the responsibility for integration. This municipality will continue to bear all the costs and stand for the integration programme and will continue to have a permanent residence for the individual refugee. It is therefore not a question of a municipality passing on a financial burden or task to other municipalities. There are also many good examples of municipalities making use of being able to place refugees with each other on a temporary basis, and I think it is appropriate to retain that opportunity because it helps to give municipalities flexibility in solving the problem of housing for refugees. It is a flexibility which is also a cornerstone of the two-part agreement between the municipalities and the government. The point here is precisely to give the municipalities a better framework for receiving and finding housing for new refugees. I therefore do not believe that the possibility of temporary housing across municipal boundaries should be abolished, and in practice this should not be a problem. But I also think it is quite reasonable that the two municipalities should agree on this. That is also why I am prepared to introduce a clause of consent. I just don't think there's any reason to rush it through. The government will therefore table an amendment to the motion for a resolution which we are debating here, which means that the bill will be tabled before the end of this parliamentary year so that the amended provision can enter into force, for example. of 1 July 2017. In addition, at the beginning of the new year I intend to write to all municipalities that we intend to put forward such a bill, and at the same time I would call on the municipalities to secure their consent if they envisage the housing of refugees temporarily outside the municipal border. I hope that this approach has the support of a majority in the Folketing, and then we can work together on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206181628	Thank you, Minister. The next speaker is Mr. Dan Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206181641	I shall be very brief. We support the proposal. We think it is very important that there is an opportunity for you to help each other in municipalities that are adjacent to each other if there is understanding from both sides. There may also be temporary considerations. But it is clear that a situation such as that we have. have seen where the municipality of Frederiksberg makes temporary housing placement in Copenhagen without the consent of the City of Copenhagen, we cannot accept. So we thank the SF for an excellent proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206181716	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Christian Langballe as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206181733	True to our general position, we will await what the government is doing. After all, we have the clear position that we should stick to the idea that asylum seekers should remain at the centres and that they should then be sent back to their home countries when there is peace and no danger. So we're waiting for this. With regard to all this housing and where to put them, it is not a discussion that we will enter, because we still have the view that refugees should be placed in asylum centres. So with these comments, we are waiting for the government to decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206181828	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Marcus Knuth as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206181836	Thank you for the floor. Thanks to the SF for a very nice suggestion. It is not always the case that we agree in the field of foreigners, so I think it is only appropriate to give an extra thank you for some good thoughts. Far along the way, I and the Left share the position that the resolution proposes here. We believe that it is reasonable to examine whether we can make a model where a municipality can only be allowed to accommodate refugees in another municipality, if both municipalities can reach agreement • consent between municipalities, which means that you cannot be forced to relieve another municipality if you do not have the resources. However, as the Minister says, we disagree with the short deadline set by the SF here. It's important that we make a well-worked model for this. That is why we share the intention in the draft law, but we cannot support the proposal in its present form because of the short deadline. However, I see a good opportunity for us to reach agreement during the committee procedure and look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206181938	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then I give the floor to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206181946	After all, it was a tiny bit of a good Tuesday, because it is obviously a sensible proposal that comes from the SF, namely that if a municipality that has had a certain number of refugees chooses to send the refugees to another municipality, in order for them to live there, one should ask the other municipality first. That's a pretty good idea. It is the case that we have a quota system in the municipalities, because it is obviously a fairly large task to integrate refugees who come here, often with severe trauma in the luggage, often from countries, cultures and societies that are very different from the Danish one. It not only takes money, it also requires volunteers in the community to be ready to accept. And you undermine that idea if you just pass your quota on to another municipality. So, of course, we support the proposal and are pleased that the government also supports the proposal. I would like to ask the government to consider something else that we have discussed, namely how much time is temporary. Because we have, for example. Frederiksberg Municipality heard that we are passing them on to the City of Copenhagen temporarily. Well, how long is it temporary? The integration period is 3 years and during that period refugees are bound to live in a particular municipality. So a call to the government not only to take on board this good, sensible proposal from the SF, which is about asking the others, but also to consider how long you can temporarily place refugees in a municipality other than where they really belong.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206182135	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Christina Egelund as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206182143	Thank you. This resolution has already been said very sensibly. The Liberal Alliance also thinks that this is a good proposal. And I would like to be as brief as to say that if the proposers are willing to look at the deadline, as previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, and we can find a good solution with the deadline, then we will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206182208	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206182216	Thank you. I'll be brief, too. We also support the SF's proposals. It is important that the municipalities cannot simply wipe off the responsibility of each other without making concrete agreements, and I think it is positive that the Minister also makes the statement she makes today. We support the SF's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206182238	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206182251	Thank you. In the Radical Left, too, we support the proposal and think it is really positive that the Minister announces that the government will also make legislative proposals, and then I am sure that I hope the SF's rapporteur will confirm that we can find a common solution to this. This shows that sometimes it actually makes a difference to do a parliamentary job. I have been quite concerned about the way Frederiksberg Municipality and the City of Copenhagen have handled or, you might say, have not dealt with the challenge of settling refugees, and I do not think it is a proper way when municipalities do not agree with each other, but just do so. All the municipalities, and especially those with resources and surpluses, will be prepared for this to be their task in the future. And, of course, we can agree on temporary solutions, but then we have to work together between the municipalities. So I think it is very sensible if we can tighten this up so that it will happen in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206182401	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. I now give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206182416	It is true that it was specifically about a case between the City of Copenhagen and the Municipality of Frederiksberg, but it is a general problem that can arise because you are allowed to do so. It is true, as the Minister has also said, that there is no prohibition on doing so in this respect. This must be done because there are many practical problems to be solved in this quota system, but there must be properness in it. Sometimes it's interesting to be a parliamentarian. It is not always thought that the day has been spent well then we are not talking about the day yesterday. But sometimes it is actually worth sitting in here, and I would like to commend the Minister for her reception of this. In fact, it is rare for a government to accept a motion for a resolution from an opposition party like this without further ado. You make a small amendment to it and move on. Normally it is the saying that no, no, we cannot deal with that, and then we do something that is different and something like that. So respect for it, respect. I think that is positive, and it also shows a Danish folk regime that actually works. We can be happy about that, too. So I'm very happy. I agree with the radical rapporteur. Now I think we go back to committee and then we can make a report on this and then work on it and perhaps get an amendment in or whatever we do. There is no reason why we should vote on such an amendment here. I think we should make a report on this and then we will find a good Danish parliamentary solution to this. So thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206182601	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206182615	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 7 December 2016, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
