ParlaMint-DK_20160211100036	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Finance (Claus Hjort Frederiksen): Bill no. L 119 (Proposal for a law supplementing the regulation on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market). Minister for the Environment and Food (Eva Kjer Hansen): Bill no. L 120 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Minister for Health and the Elderly (Sophi Løhde): Bill no. L 121 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Health and the Law on the Authorisation of Public Health and Public Health). Jep Jakobsen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 61 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the civil tender for volunteers in the Home Guard). Søren Søndergaard (EL) and others.: Question No. F 21 (What can the Government say about the government's response to recent developments in Turkey, including, among other things: the attacks on freedom of the press, the threats to academics and intellectuals and the attacks on Syrian refugees, as well as the massacre in Cizre and the siege of other Kurdish areas of Turkey?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20160211100155	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 22 by Ulla Sandbæk (Alternative), Mattias Tesfaye (Social Democracy), Marcus Knuth (Venstre), Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen (Enhedslisten), Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (Liberal Alliance), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (Radio Left), Jacob Mark (Socialist People's Party) and Søren Pape Poulsen (Conservative People's Party), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour 86 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 23 (DF), abstention 0. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 23 by Martin Henriksen (Danish People's Party) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211100308	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211100331	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211100413	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211100419	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211100512	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211100518	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour, 111 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211100604	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Yes, here you go, sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211100612	Very briefly: we are dealing with this proposal, which is intended to ensure both efficiency and lower prices in the water sector, but which is also intended to ensure that in the future we will be able to develop good water technology and technological solutions, which are, in fact, something on which we are earning a great deal of money and which provides many jobs. On Tuesday, when we voted at second reading, we had an amendment from the opposition which focused on incorporating technology management and total economy into the legislation. It was voted down by the small majority, as opposed to it, but we also noted that the Minister has said on several occasions that he supports these considerations about ensuring a total economic approach, and we noted that the Conservative People's Party has written in their contribution to the report that it was supposed to be discussed in the conciliation circle. So we would just like to call on the Minister to confirm this, so if it does not appear in the legislative notes, as we would have liked, we would like the conciliation circle to be involved in ensuring that we get technology management and total economy into the future implementation of the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211100725	Thank you to the rapporteur. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211100726	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 94 (S, DF, V, EL, RV, SF and KF) voted against 6 (ALT), abstained 8 (LA). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211100814	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211100820	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour of voting 57 (DF, V, ALT, SF and KF), against 51 (S, EL, LA and RV), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211100910	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211100916	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211100959	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211101005	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL (by mistake), LA, RV, SF and KF) voted against 6 (ALT), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211101043	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211101052	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211101132	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211101205	Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211101219	Thank you. The Enhedslisten has tabled an amendment to this bill which states that some of the conditions that must be met for the lending of civil servants are actually being written into the law. We have done so because, during the committee procedure, we have identified some disagreements... let us just call them that between the official act itself and a Supreme Court ruling which has actually fallen in this area. It was a Supreme Court ruling which fell in a case between FynBus, the transport company on Funen, and a private bus company which operated a workshop previously operated by FynBus. It was a matter of some officials • workshop staff, mechanics etc. In fact, there was a Supreme Court ruling which, in its recitals, was actually quite precise on the conditions to be met for civil servants to be lent to private firms. That is what we are faced with here, because in the case of DSB officials, there have been some invitations to tender which means that DSB is faced with having to lend some of their officials, in this case to the ISS, the large cleaning group. We can see in the comments on the bill, but also in the consultation note, that in our opinion there are some disagreements. That is why we think it is important for the law to include in it the terms which the Supreme Court ruling actually lays down, which are relatively precise and which, of course, ensure that these officials cannot simply be moved around as pawns in a chess game and must tolerate any loan. The problem arises, of course, because, as we all know, and this is also stated in the call for tenders in relation to the ISS is the station officer function, which is transferred to the ISS, and here the officials must therefore bear to be lent. ISS has an entire sub-contractor underforest • 8 they have argued in the negotiations with the Danish Railway Association • to which the civil servants must also bear to be lent. And then you can from being a ranger or something in the train service area end up in copying or, for that matter, cleaning at the nearest station centre, or whatever. There are, in fact, no limits. The Staff Act does not set any very precise limits on this, but the Supreme Court ruling does so if the terms of the Supreme Court judgment are taken at face value. That is why, with this amendment, we wanted to make it clear that the terms of the Supreme Court judgment are valid, also because there are references in the hearing note to the Supreme Court ruling which actually states that the terms of the Supreme Court ruling are clear. Elsewhere in the consultation note and in the comments on the bill, reference is made to civil servants' legislation. So there is a disagreement, I will choose to call it between the two things, but it should have been resolved if we include the recitals of the Supreme Court ruling in the draft law. So, of course, I would urge you to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211101552	Thank you, sir. Henning Hyllested. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211101559	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (S and SF). The vote is closed. For the vote 42 (S, EL and SF), against 66 (DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211101640	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211101710	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211101727	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT and SF). The vote is closed. In favour of 18 (EL, ALT and SF), against 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211101810	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211101836	The debate is open. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go. We would like to get started on the first reading, but we will wait until there is silence in the Chamber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211101927	Thank you. My grandfather was a bricklayer and always wore a pocket knife. That's just the way it was. It was the same for thousands of other law-abiding citizens who had a knife in their pockets, for they had always had that. The knife was used at work as a bricklayer to peel oranges, open cans and letters, just as he carried this knife hunting and fishing. And that's basically why we're dealing with the bill today, namely that citizens like my grandfather... he's called Ejgil... can legally carry their knife in perfectly legitimate errands. The aim of the draft law is thus to revise, simplify and clarify the legislation on knives and blank weapons. It is at the same time, of course, that we do not compromise on the security of the population and we have tightened the net on the violent criminals whom we have, unfortunately, seen too many times, caused great damage, including fatal outcomes. What makes this bill a little difficult is that everyone is equal before the law, and therefore it can be difficult to see what a citizen will use his knife for before it is used. Nevertheless, that is what the draft law here seeks. On the one hand, the rules for using knife are relaxed for the purposes I mentioned at the outset. On the other hand, the draft law seeks to sharpen the course towards knives, among others. the nightlife and criminal environments, and at the same time the proposal envisages that knives may only be carried in public places where there is a so-called recognition-worthy purpose. It then expands to all knives and blank weapons. The last part we have a few more questions, see among others. the observations of the Association of Judges. We want to ensure that it is quite clear what these worthy purposes include, and it must be ensured that there are acute situations such as this one. at concerts, situations in bars, at football matches etc. And one of the examples that has been given that it can be really, really difficult with this law is perhaps at the more humorous end: for example, bagpipers wearing kilt, usually a knife, do not have a dagger as part of their equipment, and they are often supposed to play on festive occasions and at concerts, and therefore it is of course important that we clarify this proposal as well as possible. It is, of course, a difficult balance to find in this dilemma between the worthy purposes and the aims of those who want to harm our fellow citizens and commit crime. Perhaps the Minister can already clarify the part that I have just raised. Finally, may I not say that this is an important legislative proposal which concerns incredibly many people with both good intentions and bad intentions. That is why it is important that we land a law that is long-lasting and that there is broad political support for. With the hope that the Minister will give his word that the wording of the law on the worthy purpose of recognition is understandable and in practice also applicable, I must say that we Socialists can support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211102307	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211102327	We are now discussing the proposal for a new law on knifes to replace an old and somewhat controversial law. The law currently in force is not appropriate for several reasons. It does not sufficiently prevent those people who under no circumstances should carry a knife in the nightlife from carrying the knife as long as it is just under 7 cm. But even a small knife in the nightlife can mean very great damage and tragic deaths that could probably have been avoided if there was a ban on using knife and carrying knife in these places. In this light, the bill we are now discussing is good news for anyone who wants the knives out of the nightlife and away from other dangerous places, which means an increased risk of violent episodes where the use of knives carries the risk of killing. At the same time, a severe punishment is being imposed for people who have not understood the message and yet take a knife with them in the night life, and who had already been sentenced for violating a series of paragraphs of the penal code. Here the penalty is increased from the current seven days to 40 days, which hopefully is something that can have a clear preventive effect against criminals who have already committed crime in their past because in future they can be punished more severely for violating these rules. On the side of punishment, the law sends a very clear signal: Leave the knife at home, or receive a severe punishment. That's a really good signal to send. But thank God there are plenty of people who peacefully use different kinds of knives every day in their work, leisure or in connection with other activities, and who have no evil in mind, but for whom the knife is a useful tool in daily pursuits. Of course, we should not strike down on that. Here, as much consideration as possible must be taken into account. In this case, the purpose worthy of recognition comes into play. It can greatly allow craftsmen, hunters, sports fishermen and scouts and other good people who use knife or dagger in work or leisure time to use their knife forward. The smaller knives, which I think many Danes carry around in their pockets every day, will also be able to carry in the future unless, of course, you are in a place where circumstances do not argue that you should wear a knife and where there is a hard course towards it. In short, we in the Danish People's Party believe that there seems to be a healthy balance in the proposal. On the one hand, we hit hard and punish the group of people who cannot find out that knives do not belong in the nightlife, and on the other hand, we maintain the ability of ordinary, peaceful Danes to use knifes in connection with work and hobby, and that the possibility of wearing small pocket knives and multi-tools does not disappear either. We both punish those who do not want to behave properly and take account of ordinary people. We are pleased with that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211102625	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Britt Bager, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211102638	Today, we are dealing first with the bill on knives and blank weapons. It is a legislative proposal aimed at simplifying and clarifying the law on knives. Furthermore, the aim of the proposal is to prevent all forms of crime involving the use of knife. Even before the summer parliamentary elections, the Left announced a fight with the disputed knife law, which clearly does not work as intended. It is therefore gratifying that the government is now doing something about legislation in this area. As the previous rapporteurs have already mentioned, the draft law contains several main elements. One-handed folding knives are no longer prohibited from possessing without the permission of the police, the concept of worthy of recognition is extended and, in future, even more severe action is being taken against people who have been convicted of violence in the past and who carry a knife in places where violent situations or clashes are likely to occur. Last but not least, a total ban on knives is being imposed, for example. The nightlife. When reviewing the main elements of the bill, it is clear that the bill will benefit ordinary people who have a good reason to wear a knife. For example, it could be hunters, fishermen or scouts. At the same time, the government is sending out a clear signal that violence and assault, in this case with a knife, are totally unacceptable. This is a very fine proposal, which the Left naturally supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211102821	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211102834	This bill, as several people have said, is about getting a whole new knife law together in one place, and it must first and foremost ensure better transparency. I think that is quite correct. Then there is also the lifting of the general ban on the possession of certain types of knives, and this has given rise to one of the problems which has led to a number of judgments recently, that is to say that there are certain types of knives which are prohibited but can still be used for some worthy purposes, as they are called, i.e... hunting, fishing, scouting, all those things that give you good reason to run around with a knife. Some of those people have been hit, even though the idea was different. Perhaps it is a historical problem with the law on knifes that there have been ordinary people who have good reason to wear a knife, but who have been affected by legislation that was actually directed at people who at all have no good reason at all to wear a knife. Back in 2012, we changed the knife law that was made in 2004, which was even very controversial. It was the knife law that meant that ordinary people who were going fishing and just slipped by the bakery on the road would be hit. It was changed back in 2012, and it was really good. I believe that this legislation will clarify it even more and that it will ensure that the problems that were then posed by that legislation are also eliminated. I would also like to say that when I read the bill and the related consultation answers, we may still lack a clear definition of a worthy purpose. I agree that it can be very, very difficult, and I think it may be a good idea, as the Ministry has done, to write very clearly that there are some situations where, as a rule, one can never say that there is a worthy purpose for demonstrations, football events, all those things and that is, in fact, very clear, and stands out very clearly, I think, when one reads the comments. At the same time, there are also some everyday things that are, as a starting point, a worthy purpose, i.e. a fishing trip, a scout trip, all those things. Then there is a grey area, I would say, which I have certainly not learned more when I read the comments this time. What if you always have a small knife in your pocket, because you're the Lawyer's Council who's found the example... likes to ride a bike through the woods and sometimes wants to go on a mushroom hunt, but not always planned it, or if you have a knife lying in your car? For it could be that it was needed for a practical purpose, but it has not been planned. I still think it is a little unclear where we end up in these situations, and I think that is very important to clarify that for quite a lot of people in everyday life. That is why I would also like to put a written question to the Minister, to whom I hope the Ministry will respond as fully as they can. Of course, I will try to give as specific examples as possible so that we can get as clear an answer as possible to the many people who may have a multi-tool or something lying in their car every day. But as a starting point, Enhedslisten supports the proposal. We think it sounds like a simplification, but we also have some issues that we think may be even better.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211103243	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211103253	Mrs Trine Bramsen began her speech as rapporteur by taking a historical look back. This is not something she and I have planned in advance, but I have also planned to do so, and this is something that we must regret in a stylish way. Lennart Edelberg was my high school biology teacher. In addition, he was on Henning Haslund-Haslund-Christensen's expeditions to Afghanistan in the 1940s and 1950s. I have often discussed Afghanistan with Lennart Edelberg, and it was a very peaceful and idyllic country back then it can be a little difficult to understand and it made a very deep impression on him. Because of the things he had experienced in Afghanistan, Lennart Edelberg always wore a rather large Afghan knife in his belt. He carried it when he taught, when he supervised school parties, and when he did practical things like going to Kickly in Ribe the knife always accompanied him. Now Afghanistan is a very, very different country, and the attitude to wear a rather large Afghan knife as part of its ordinary dress is another. So there is a new reality that we need to get used to in many ways. L 107 does, of course, simplify a whole lot of rules, and I would like to say this in parentheses, in general terms, is very positive, i.e. with this transfiguration and simplification of rules, but it is a very great advantage for peaceful fellow citizens. Hopefully, in the future, we will avoid these boring cases in which honest citizens are punished because of ignorance of the rules. On the other hand, we must all get used to the fact that there are some arenas where you simply cannot bring a knife. It's nightlife, it's restaurants, it's sports events. So these changed times that we're living in, we're going to live in a different way. We have also had to get used to this, for example. air travel, and now it's come to this with wearing a knife. It may be regrettable, and it may require some rehab, but I do not think there is any way around saying to those people who have the habit of wearing a little knife on them that it is now over. If you're going out at night, you have to put down your knife, and you can't walk around with this Afghan knife in your belt, even if you have enough reason to do so. So the law makes demands on everyone, it requires everyone to think well about wearing a knife, but in return it fulfills a very healthy principle that there are some arenas where knives simply have nothing to do. It's easy to find out it's easy to explain. So we look forward to the further legislative process and support Bill No. L 107.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211103546	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211103556	Thank you. The aim of the bill is to simplify and clarify the legislation on knives and blank weapons, while at the same time the government wants to increase the security of the population and prevent serious violent crime. The bill proposes to introduce a new knife law which, on the one hand, relaxes the rules on the use of knives for sensible and everyday purposes, and, on the other hand, sharpens the course towards knives in, among others. nightlife and criminal environments. The proposal also suggests that the principle that knives may be carried in public places, etc., should be extended to cover all knives and blank weapons only where there is a worthy purpose. The alternative supports the proposal's intentions in terms of general legislative simplification. The alternative is always in favour of more transparent legislation. The alternative is also positive in terms of relaxing the rules on the use of knives for reasonable everyday purposes, including the principle that knives may only be carried in public places, etc., when there is a worthy purpose and that it is extended to include all knives and blank weapons. I therefore agree with the comments that have been made from up here in relation to what is a concrete recognition-worthy purpose, and I also think that the comments have become very good, but it is also very important to me that those who have to implement the legislation so specifically are guided by all the good examples that have been mentioned here. However, the bill also provides for a sharp increase in punishment. It is proposed that in cases where a person who has previously been sentenced to prison for a specific series of violent offences carries a knife in aggravating circumstances, the penalty should be increased from the current 7 days to 40 days in prison in first cases. This is wanted to be achieved, as the government among other things. Considers that it can have a preventive effect. In the alternative, we may have doubts about that. We have doubts as to whether increasing penalties has a preventive effect at all. In addition, the Danish Court of Justice considers that the proposed penalty for the persons referred to should be considered, including whether such a severe penalty is justified in all cases. However, we see the draft law as an important step in the right direction for simplifying the law and decriminalising ordinary people, which is why the alternative will also look forward to further consideration by the committee and is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211103816	Thank you. Then it's mr. Emrah Tuncer, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211103822	Thank you. The Radical Left agrees with the intentions behind the bill, including avoiding knives in places where they do not belong, and we can also support, as a starting point, the tightening of penalties. Of course, we need a knife law that makes citizens more secure, but we also need a knife law that is easy to understand and easy to enforce. When reading the draft law and, above all, the comments which elaborate on the proposed changes, it is clear that the draft law in its present form contains a number of grey areas and presentations for subjective assessments by government officials who are to administer the law, so that the draft law will make it almost impossible for the ordinary Dane to know how to avoid breaking the law. We can support the main elements of the draft law, but we are concerned about wordings as worthy of recognition, leaving it in practice to assess whether it is a worthy purpose for each authority's assessment. So, as a starting point, we support the intentions, we support the tightening of penalties. We totally agree that we need to focus on this. With those words, I would just like to say that we support this, but look forward to having some of the questions answered both by Mrs Trine Bramsen and by Mrs Pernille Skipper in relation to precisely this wording on worthy of recognition, so that it becomes a little sharper in the wordings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211103940	Thank you. Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211103947	Thank you. As I myself said in my rapporteur's speech, I still think that there are some grey areas in relation to the definition of the concept of worthy of recognition, but must the rapporteur not admit that since the introduction of the term was made in 2012 I recall that the rapporteur's own party was in government... have we actually come out of some of the problems that have been with it? Since the legislation of 2012, we have probably cleaned up the very, very serious cases where people who clearly just drove past the grocery store on their way to something that was justified to have a knife brought in have been convicted. It's not really like that anymore. Is it not also true, the second question, that it is not the officials who make this estimate, but the courts who make the estimate? I guess everything else has to be something else. They do that all the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211104048	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211104050	To reply to the last point, I would like to say that this is absolutely right, but after all it is the authority person who then apprehends the individual citizen from having a knife to assess whether it is a worthy purpose for recognition, so that a matter arises out of it. In relation to the first question, I would say that it is quite true that a great deal of it has been cleared up, but I do believe that a worthy objective of recognition in terms of language allows us to assess subjectively. I think it does, because something that I think is worthy of recognition may be that Mrs Pernille Skipper does not think that is worthy of recognition. I therefore think that when you make a legislative proposal and also have to adopt a legislative proposal, you should be quite sharp in your wording so that you have no doubt about what is worthy of recognition and what is not worthy of recognition.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211104135	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211104140	That is not quite correct. It's not the authority person who's apprehended. In addition to the fact that it is probably the police we are talking about in this case, so it is not the authority person who decides what is a worthy purpose, more than that it is a police officer who has to judge on a stand-by basis whether you have run a red light or whether there is still a yellow one, and thus has to take the matter further. In the end, it is not the authority person who defines what is a worthy purpose. It's the courts. So yes, it is a subjective concept that we must define very, very clearly in the comments, but it is not the concept as such or the existence of the estimate as such that we find it everywhere in our legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211104221	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211104223	I agree with Mrs Pernille Skippe that it is, of course, the concept that Mrs Pernille Skip mentioned, that we should have defined, and you are absolutely right, in relation to which authority should then assess whether it was worthy of recognition.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211104239	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then we have to be careful not to talk directly to Members and comply with the Rules of Procedure. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211104253	Thank you. I'm glad we're gonna have a look at the knife law. There are far too many stories about ordinary people who are in trouble because of the law of knife. I'm out of a family of craftsmen and hunters, and I had to say hello to them and say that they're really looking forward to this law being changed. It has been a joke, and of course it has not been bad will on the part of the Folketing, but it has been problematic for those who have been charged. There have been stories about people who have been here and only had a residence permit and where it has had really fundamental and serious consequences for their future lives. So I would like to acknowledge the Minister for this. Then I would also like to refer to what almost everyone has mentioned from up here, namely the comments that have been made in the hearings, that it is perhaps very good to define it a little further so that we do not have to discuss the knife law in this Chamber in a few years' time, because there are doubts again. However, from the outset, the SF supports the bill and also hopes that the Minister will look favourably on the fact that we can define worthy purposes a little more clearly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211104409	Thank you. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211104421	A much scolded law is now being replaced by a better one. We have a new knife law in front of us, trying with common sense to find a balance in relation to when to wear a knife. A way has also been found so widely to describe commendable purposes, so that you are not punished for having a small pocket knife or a multi-tool in your pocket. I fully agree that it can always be difficult to get it clearly and clearly described in precise detail, but I think that great efforts have been made here, and I am quite sure that it will also enjoy the promotion. In relation to the case that Mrs Pernille Skipper mentioned from up here, I would say that if you are out collecting mushrooms and have a small pocket knife, you can do so without any problems. In fact, I think it is very good that we should now define where we should not carry a knife, never ever, and that is in situations where conflicts can arise, in other words in nightlife, in major football matches and in demonstrations. And then you can carry a knife for commendable purposes, and we should not punish people who go for a walk in the woods and carry a pocket knife. But we must also say that times are different. The time has passed when one can say that we should not have a knife law; the time has passed when we can accept that one has knives in the nightlife. We do not live in such a society, and that is why they must, of course, go away in this context. Then we'll tighten up the penalty too. I think that is quite appropriate. We're coming for them. We're coming for them. We're coming for the gangs. Now it's over that they can have a knife with a blade of 6,9 cm when they wear it in the nightlife and in all other situations. So I think it's a really good piece of this law. So to sum up: we are getting a much better knife law than we have had in the past, and I wonder if we will manage to clarify the last things to everyone's satisfaction. I think we have come a long way with what is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211104630	Thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. And then it's the Justice Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211104640	May I begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the extremely positive reception of the draft law. I'm glad and thankful for that. I've been looking forward to today. It has been a matter for the government, and not least for myself since the formation of the government, that we have done something about the law of knife. This is a task that I have given priority to, because the knife rules concern a great many people, and because it is unacceptable and harmful to the sense of justice when we have legislation that makes no sense to large sections of the population. With the bill, we are introducing an entirely new knife law which, on the one hand, simplifies and relaxes the rules on the use of knives for sensible, everyday purposes and, on the other hand, sharpens the course towards knives, among other things. nightlife and criminal environments. We make it easier to be an open-air person and harder to be a criminal. Among other things, the proposal extends the ban on single-handed folding knives and extends the principle that knives must be carried in public places, where there is a worthy purpose, to all knives, with the exception of the particularly dangerous knives, which are still completely prohibited, i.e. knives such as jumping knives or throwing stars. Some of the hearings have expressed concern about small pocket knives, which are of course used by many people on a daily basis. It is not, and never has been, the intention to criminalise ordinary citizens and to prohibit ordinary little folding knives, for example. pocket knives, or multi-tools or corkscrews with built-in knife can be used by ordinary people for everyday and peaceful practical to-dos. That is why a number of clarifications have been made in the legislative proposal that has now been tabled, so that it should be made quite clear. And in relation to some of the issues that have been raised, for example. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, but also others, I hope that they will be covered during the committee procedure with the questions that may be asked, so we are perfectly clear, if I may say so. But it is the government's view that there are places and situations where knives were brought, including small folding knives, as a starting point has nothing to do with them. This is true, for example. to major football matches and political demonstrations and nightlife. That is why we are actually imposing a total ban on carrying a knife in such places. At the same time, the government is proposing a much tougher approach to people who have previously been convicted of violent crime and who carry a knife in places where there is a high risk of violence in terms of experience, for example. in the nightlife. As some of the consultation answers show, we can have different views on the model that we are proposing. Basically, this is a simplification of the rules based on common sense. I believe that both sensible knife users and the many people who travel in the nightlife will appreciate that. Of course, I will follow closely how the new rules will work in practice, whether reason works as it should. I think it does, but if it turns out against my expectations that the rules do not work, then I will respond to it. With those comments, I would once again like to thank the rapporteurs for their contributions. I am very pleased with the broad support the proposal seems to enjoy. I look forward to further consideration and, of course, I am available to answer questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211105014	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211105029	The debate is open. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211105051	Thank you. It is rare that we have a legislative proposal in which the title is almost longer than the content of the speech. I don't think this is gonna be a bill that divides the Folketing. The draft law ensures that legal bases are established to enable a number of specific cases in criminal matters, such as cases relating to the extradition of persons for criminal proceedings for the international enforcement of certain criminal decisions, etc., to be dealt with by the prosecution. Today these cases are dealt with in the Department of Justice, but in close cooperation with the Public Prosecutor. Today, when we consider the proposal to transfer cases from the Department of Justice to the Public Prosecutor, it is not least for the sake of more efficient use of resources. We in the Social Democratic Party can support this, and that is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211105154	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211105214	The aim of the proposal is to transfer criminal proceedings from the Department of Justice to the prosecution, for example. criminal proceedings and enforcement proceedings. I understand from the comments that it is the Ministry's opinion that it is more appropriate to transfer specific cases, since the handling of the cases today is already taking place in cooperation with the police and the prosecution authority, which is also responsible for bringing the decision taken to the city court if it is to be tried. This is therefore a simplification of working procedures compared to how the system works today. The proposal also provides for the right of appeal to the future. I also have to say that in the work of the committee we are going to be asking a whole series of questions about precisely this particular proposal on which we have not yet taken a full position, but we are looking forward to the work of the committee and to following the way in which the proposal has been implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211105308	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211105315	Thank you. I'm not gonna get tired of going through the bill again. This has been done brilliantly by the previous rapporteurs. As you know, it transfers jurisdiction from the Ministry, the Department, to the prosecution. It sounds like an efficiency that we can fully support. We also attach importance to the continued right of appeal in this type of case, now directly to the courts. So we can fully support the proposal. There is a small appendix to the proposal, which provides for the appointment of another national judge. We don't mind either. So the Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211105352	Thank you. The next is Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211105358	It's almost on assembly lines up here. As has been said, the bill is about transferring the powers to settle cases of extradition and enforcement of foreign judgments to the prosecution. The Ministry will then maintain that such decisions cannot be challenged to higher authority, although this might normally be the case, but that it is maintained here particularly easy access to justice. That seems to us to be quite reasonable. In any case, there are no serious arguments against the proposal, as long as this easy access to justice is maintained. We must, of course, stress that this is quite, quite important because taking decisions to extradite people for prosecution in other countries or to enforce judgments which have not been implemented by Danish courts with the guarantees of legal certainty that we have and the controls we have here is, of course, something quite violent. That is why it is important that we have access to justice. And yes, we can also support the appointment of a new national judge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211105511	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211105518	I shall not tire the Danish Parliament of reviewing the content of the bill again. I would just like to point out that, although I do not have a complete overview of why this is so, the draft law on which I am rapporteur is not even contrary to human rights for once, and that is very unusual for some strange reason. But of course that leads me to say that we are of course in favour of Bill No. L 108.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211105555	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211105604	Thank you. In short, the aim of the draft law is to establish the legal basis for a number of specific cases in criminal matters, including criminal law. cases relating to the extradition of persons for prosecution may be dealt with by the Public Prosecutor. Those cases are currently being dealt with in the Ministry of Justice, but it is proposed that in future cases can be dealt with by the prosecution. We think that makes a lot of sense. There is already a very close cooperation. Thus, the draft law contains the authorisation provisions of the relevant laws, as well as provisions under which the Ministry of Justice may, in the case of the transfer of cases, lay down rules on the right of appeal, including the possibility of cutting off administrative appeals in the cases. In this respect, I think it is worth noting what the Institute of Human Rights writes and which I think is very sensible: if the right of appeal from the Public Prosecutor to the Department of Justice is cut off in extradition cases, and that is what is at issue here, then it is important to ensure a predictable and uniform practice in the handling of cases by the Public Prosecutor. And then there is something that is also important but that the Foundation states that it should be ensured that the experience already acquired in the handling of cases is not lost in the context of the transfer of decision-making powers to the prosecution. But with those comments, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211105716	Thank you. Sir. Emrah Tuncer, Radical Left. Here you go. And the next one again is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211105731	Thank you. I shall be very brief. The Radical Left supports the draft law, which provides for simplification and more efficient working procedures. We are particularly sensitive to the comments made by the Attorney General, who agrees that it is appropriate to transfer jurisdiction in certain extradition and international enforcement cases to the prosecution. The Institute of Human Rights notes that, in view of the particular access to justice in extradition proceedings, the Institute considers that there are no crucial concerns about moving from the Ministry of Justice to the prosecution. So the Radical Left can back the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211105804	Thank you. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211105820	The bill has been examined so well, and the SF can also support it. All I would add, however, is that in a hearing from the Institute for Human Rights it is pointed out that it is important that in the implementation process no competences are lost when moving from one place to another. That's all I have to say about it. But SF supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211105841	Well, then, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211105848	Our position on this bill is also clear. So, with such a popular title of the law as a draft law amending the law on extradition of of offenders, the law on the enforcement of certain criminal decisions in the European Union, the law on the international enforcement of penalties, etc. It is clear to everyone that this is just a proposal, but also because of its content we can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211105916	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211105923	I would like to extend my warm thanks to the rapporteurs for supporting a legislative proposal with the title in question. It wasn't a natural starting point, so thank you for that. As has already been said, the matter concerns extradition cases and proceedings relating to the enforcement of foreign convictions in Denmark. They are already being dealt with in close cooperation with the prosecution, and therefore it is more appropriate to place the cases there. It is initially intended that cases should be placed with the Attorney General, but the draft law also allows cases to be placed with other parts of the prosecution should this prove more appropriate in the long term. I look forward to further consideration and I am, of course, available for questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211110010	It doesn't look like there's any of them, so thank you to the Attorney General. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211110031	The debate is open. Minister for Health and the Elderly, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211110047	Thank you. The motion for a resolution we are debating now has the title of the motion for a Parliament resolution on the temporary cessation of the privatisation of care for the elderly. Is the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten even here? Excuse me, I don't think the rapporteur for the proposers is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211110109	No, in fact, the rapporteur for the proposers is not. It is a good thing that the Minister can point this out. We'll postpone the meeting. Thank you, Minister. Always at your service).
ParlaMint-DK_20160211110218	[Sound emission]... and, of course, I must point out that the rapporteur should be present when a proposal has been tabled. It's the minister again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211110228	Thank you. It is said that the third time is the time of happiness, but I wonder if we can also say this about the second time. Now we are all together and, as I was saying, it is a resolution entitled 'Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the temporary cessation of the privatisation of care for the elderly'. The proposal will require the government to submit a legislative proposal to ensure that, with effect from 1 February 2016, an end to the outsourcing of care for the elderly, including home help covered by the free choice scheme and in nursing homes, is introduced. The position of the proposers is, and I quote now, that the privatisation of the municipalities must be abolished. I would like to start by saying that this kind of thing gets a little confused when you read the proposal, because we can start by stating that we have not privatised home help in Denmark. As the rules are today, municipalities must provide a basis for home help recipients to choose between two or more suppliers, one of which may be municipal. Thus, when the municipalities conclude a contract with private suppliers for home help according to the rules in force, it is not privatisation, it is outsourcing. It is still the municipality which has the overall responsibility for help and which decides what quality and extent of assistance should be provided. It is also the municipalities which continue to be responsible for providing citizens with the help they need. And as long as the municipalities themselves can choose to provide the aid, there is no privatisation obligation. With that in mind, I would also like to move on to comment on the substance of the proposal. The Enhedslisten explains the proposal that the bankruptcies of private home help companies in recent years have had negative consequences for both citizens, municipalities and employees in the care sector. That it has negative consequences when a supplier goes bankrupt, I do not think anyone can disagree with this House. The citizen loses his usual home helper, who may lose his job, and the municipality must step in at short notice to ensure that the citizen gets the necessary help. This is undoubtedly an unfortunate and sad situation for all parties. But what the proposal then proposes, namely that private home help companies should not be able to enter into new agreements with the municipalities when their contracts expire, also has to do with me some real, really unfortunate consequences: firstly, the consequence of this resolution will be to abolish citizens' free elections in Denmark, thereby depriving older people of the right to decide for themselves who is going to come and carry out the aid in their homes. Secondly, it will mean that citizens who have chosen private home help will lose their usual home helper when the contract expires. It creates an insecurity and means new faces for some citizens who may already see a great many different helpers in their daily lives. Moreover, it is my concern that a temporary stop will have some serious consequences for some companies. If the proposal were implemented, it would mean that well-functioning companies around Denmark would not be able to conclude new contracts for the provision of home help. This can lead to more bankruptcies and the dismissal of employees, and it can ultimately undermine the market with the negative consequences it has for citizens, municipalities, employees in the care sector and suppliers. In terms of preventing bankruptcy, I would also like to point out that a number of different tools already exist today. The key parties in this area have taken a number of different initiatives to deal with bankruptcy in the future, and I would like to mention a few of them. The National Association of Municipalities, Dansk Erhverv og Dansk Industri issued five recommendations on how bankruptcy can be prevented in August 2015. In addition, in October 2015, Danish Industry held a round table on public-private cooperation, where, on the basis of the round table discussion, we are now working on a set of common points for good cooperation between municipalities and private suppliers. The prevention of bankruptcies is an element of this. In addition, the Danish Industry Attorney has drawn up a number of concrete proposals as to what the municipalities can impose on the private suppliers, as well as what dialogue the municipalities can have with the suppliers in order to prevent bankruptcies. As far as I am concerned, it is now a question of applying the recommendations and of using the tools to a greater extent than has been the case in the past. I therefore agree with the proposers that the municipalities should take the necessary measures to deal with bankruptcy. That is common sense, and I think that, in fact, already lies in their responsibility as an authority in this area. Finally, I think it is worth noting that the rules we have today were introduced by the former Social Democratic led government together with Enhedslisten back in 2013. So it was the proposers' own party who was behind the change in the rules in 2013 that led, among other things, to the amendment. intended to ensure greater flexibility for municipalities in the organisation of free elections. At the same time, it must be noted that the Ankestyrelsen has already carried out an evaluation of the implementation of the rules by the municipalities in the light of the change in rules in 2013. The report was published in November, and I am therefore surprised that the proposers are now proposing an evaluation of the law and of the local authorities' practice again. Finally, let me make it quite clear that the government does not want to deprive citizens of free elections. The right to choose freely who should come to your home and provide home help is a fundamental element of the citizens' right to decide for themselves. At the same time, free choice also helps to provide better help for the elderly. The ability to choose and choose from gives the citizen influence and responsibility for the help that is being delivered. I note, moreover, that when you ask them, which is what the whole thing is all about, namely the elderly themselves, 70 per cent will be found. of the home help recipients who are familiar with the scheme, since it is either important or very important that there is a free choice of supplier. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211110927	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211110937	Thank you. I shall return to this matter of privatisation in my own rapporteur's speech, which I will of course insist on. I would ask the Minister to deny that if you have a private supplier, the citizen himself will decide who will be in the help of the citizen. The citizen can choose between a private supplier or between several suppliers and the municipality. It is true that the citizen can have some influence on which company delivers the goods. However, the citizen cannot decide who comes to the citizen's home. If it is a private supplier, it will be the private supplier who decides which employees come out there just so we get it in place. I think the Minister is trivialising the problem. The Minister has given me an answer to Question 177, where the Minister writes: "It is worth noting that in connection with the many bankruptcies of the past there have been no cases in which citizens have not received the help they needed. • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20160211111049	Yes, please! You have to come back with the question. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211111053	In relation to the latter, I think we have to say: continuation follows. I certainly did not see any question in the last part. However, in relation to the first part, we have to say again that there is at least some confusion in terms of concepts on the part of the Enhedslisten rapporteur. We have not privatised the care of the elderly in Denmark, and if, as the Enhedslisten wishes, which is the consequence of this proposal that the elderly should have abolished the free choice, it will also mean that the elderly who have today chosen a private supplier, that they are the ones who provide the help in their homes, will not be able to do so in the future. Thus, Enhedslisten will also ensure that the elderly do not have the free choice to decide whether it should be a municipal supplier or a private supplier who comes into their homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211111135	It's Enhedslisten again, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211111144	The question was that the Minister writes that, in the case of many bankruptcies in the past, there have been no cases in which the citizens have not received the help they needed. So, is the Minister really going to stick to that? In the reasons for the bill we have referred to the bankruptcy of IdeaRent in Odense, where 380 elderly people were without practical assistance during Easter days. The FOA has also recently been unable to get it on the vouchers asked their members for a bearing, and there is a clear picture that when there is a bankruptcy, the elderly will be waiting for hours to get help. It is as if the Minister wants to minimize the fact that if there is a bankruptcy, there is no problem. So will the Minister maintain that this is not a problem, or is it the case that, with his reply to me, the Minister actually says that it is more important to protect the interests of private companies than the interests of citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211111242	It is always a good idea to start with the question, so at least you have delivered it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211111248	Thank you very much. In their survey, the National Association of Municipalities asked how the municipalities deal with the responsibility for supply. After all, it shows that the municipalities have first contacted the citizens concerned in order to be able to choose a new supplier as soon as possible, and in several cases the new supplier has been able to step in at short notice. And if a citizen has had an urgent need for help with, for example, personal care, municipal home care and home nursing have most often gone in and provided the benefits until the citizen has had the opportunity to choose a new supplier. Therefore, the handling of this has been entirely dependent on whether the citizens concerned have had an urgent need for help or have been able to wait for the aid to be delivered until they had chosen a new supplier. For a shorter period of time, it may be practical to have to give priority to the tasks, so that getting out of bed is given priority over cleaning. The most important thing is that we always take a concrete position on the situation of the individual citizen, and that is what we are concerned with: the elderly person himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211111353	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Then it's mr. Erik Christensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211111403	We agree with the proposers that the municipalities should always put together their tender documents in the area of the elderly as well as in other areas as well, so as to minimise the risk of bankruptcy as much as possible. Having said that, however, I would like to make it clear that the Socialists respect both the free elections of the citizens and local self-government, so we cannot support the proposal. There are, in fact, very many municipalities in which the outsourcing works in an excellent way, and therefore the bad examples should not mean that we, on the part of the Danish Parliament, put local self-government out of effect for a period of time. We believe that both KL and the municipalities, in cooperation with the parties in the field, will be able to find further procedures and forms of procurement that will minimise bankruptcy in good dialogue and constructive cooperation. And when I say minimize bankruptcy, I think it's a naive idea to think that we can completely avoid bankruptcy. It is the case that companies can be badly managed and thus go bankrupt even though they may have been running for a number of years. We are actually sure that the bad examples are known in the municipalities and that the municipalities have become better at separating the sheep from the goats on the market, so that in future we will see fewer bankruptcies. Then, of course, we would also urge the Minister, together with the KL, to follow developments closely, and there are, in fact, today, good tools, as the Minister also explained, so that the municipalities today are better equipped than they were in the past to make this tender material. And then I would say that I also think that a great many municipalities have learned from the fact that you not only look at price, but that you actually also look at other things, in relation to what some suppliers have to provide elderly care in the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211111559	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211111605	I believe that the rapporteur will see, if he reads the proposal, that the Enhedslisten is in fact also in favour of municipal self-government, as opposed to those who think that this compulsory free choice is a good idea. I would like to ask the rapporteur a question. The rapporteur acknowledges that bankruptcies cannot be avoided. Does the rapporteur agree that in order to avoid bankruptcies, there is only one way to do this, and that is to ensure that this task is not left to private companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211111634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211111637	The rapporteur may be right about that, but at the same time it is the case that sometimes there is a risk when you do something. We therefore also believe in the free choice of citizens. That is also important. And it is also important that we ensure that the municipalities have the tools to minimise the number of bankruptcies. It would be a naive idea to think that we can legislate in such a way that there will never ever be a bankruptcy in a private company. For us, however, it is also important that citizens actually have the free choice. And with my municipal background, I also have to say that it has also helped to increase municipal care for the elderly, that this competition has actually arisen between the private and the public.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211111713	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211111715	[Sound emission]... question whether there has been a boost. However, the legislation we are dealing with forces the municipalities to involve private suppliers. This constraint has resulted in 700-800 employees and approx. 7,000 citizens have been hit by a bankruptcy • 8,000 I even think it's • and that the municipal funds around there are missing an unknown million dollars because you've had to clean up after these bankruptcies. Is it wise to have legislation that forces the municipalities into such a situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211111749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211111752	As I also said, the municipalities also have an opportunity to actually go in and look at what they are for companies, they want to enter with the municipalities who also have a responsibility. And I am actually sure that the municipalities have learned from these things that have happened over the years, so we will see fewer bankruptcies in the years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211111806	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard, Danish People's Party, as the next rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211111812	There is no doubt that it is very problematic when nursing firms are declared bankrupt. First of all, it is problematic for citizens who are affected and affected in their daily lives that there are changes in the benefits they are used to receiving. We also know that there has been a lot of focus on the area over the past few years, because there have just been more bankruptcies around Denmark. Here in the Folketing we have held some consultations on the many bankruptcies, and we have all also asked the Minister questions, and we have also learned that there may be some solutions. The Danish People's Party welcomes the fact that we are also taking the debate in Parliament today and are focusing on what can be done to avoid future bankruptcies. The Danish People's Party does not believe that what the proposal is proposing is a temporary stop to privatisation. These are the words that Enhedslisten uses of the care of the elderly, which is the right way to go. What the Danish People's Party really wants is for the area to be better managed, and for more focus to be placed on the tender material in the municipalities, for example. that the tender documentation lays down certain quality requirements. It is important that the municipalities look at what can be called the robustness of the companies that win the offers and that it is also ensured that as a supplier you have a healthy economy and also for a long period of time have managed the economy so that they do not turn out to be so vulnerable. Unfortunately, it has turned out that some municipalities have focused quite a bit on a rather low price level rather than on quality. The motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten then says that the Minister has promised to look at the problem, and we expect the Minister to continue to do so after today's debate and try to keep track of this issue. I have also seen that after the consultation, the Minister has set something in motion in relation to a dialogue with the National Association of Municipalities. The fact that the Danish People's Party refuses to make a stop which the proposal proposes is due, among other things, to the fact that we believe that, if this were to happen, it would also have negative consequences for the citizens, primarily. In some cases, they would have to switch suppliers when a contract expires. The Danish People's Party also considers it important that older people have the opportunity to choose their own supplier and, as the Minister also mentioned, it is indeed clear from some studies that home help recipients have generally been very satisfied with their private supplier. We in the Danish People's Party would like to encourage municipalities to intensify their efforts to prevent bankruptcies, including, of course, the proposals that have been made, among other things. from the Attorney General, but also the five recommendations that have come from the interest groups, which can then be used as requirements for some possible suppliers. Another area that I would also like to mention is that I think much more attention should be paid to what could be called an emergency plan or emergency response, so that it could be ensured that all municipalities are guarded, you might say, when the accident is out and a company goes bankrupt. In fact, it turns out that there are several municipalities that are not really in control of this area, and that makes it very difficult for some vulnerable elderly people to get into trouble, and that is, of course, extremely unfortunate. The proposal envisages that it should come into force at a time that we have already exceeded, so it may not be possible to do so, and then perhaps I think that the proposal is somewhat lacking in relation to the economic part. It would have been nice if the Enhedslisten had perhaps just made it clear whether it would have any economic consequences, but it may be that the rapporteur can address it when the rapporteur makes his speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211112157	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211112200	Thank you. It will be cheaper for the municipalities if they do not outsource them. There are studies that show this. But let us now turn to the proposal. It is about a temporary halt to the forced free elections and the involvement of private suppliers. The rapporteur himself admits that the situation in the municipalities is not under control today. Just as a single example, a survey has been carried out showing that 54 per cent. of the municipalities that use private providers have a contingency plan to deal with bankruptcy. That is to say, 46 per cent. There is no contingency plan, and the main aim of this motion for a resolution is to make a temporary stop until we are sure that it is under control. During that period we can then argue further about what is the right model for home care. So would the rapporteur not like to address the specific idea of the proposal, namely, if it is not a good idea to have a temporary stop until we get things straight?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211112257	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211112259	Now I don't think we should fight about it. I don't think that would be very comfortable. I think it would be better for us to have the dialogue that we have also had on a regular basis with regard to consultation and to asking questions to the Minister. The minister has reported something earlier, but also today. No, I don't think that the right way to go is to make a temporary stop. I simply believe that there are older people who will get into too much trouble, for example. if a contract expires. Then they stand and have nothing, and where to go, and who to come, etc.? What I think we should really do is look at the more future perspective: how can we ensure that these emergency plans or contingency plans are made in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211112335	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211112338	There are no citizens caught up in our proposals. It just says that the contracts that have been concluded will continue until they expire. So that doesn't change anything compared to the normal situation where you have something in supply. So the municipality knows in good time when the contract expires, and then it can make sure that you quietly take over the task from the private during that period until some other legislation is made possible. So there aren't any citizens who get into trouble as a result of this. The rapporteur himself says that things are not in order. So wasn't it a good idea to make a temporary stop until we sort things out?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211112412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211112414	No, I do not think it is, and I would like to repeat that. I do not think that is the way forward. I believe that some people will be in a position to get into a mess, and we do not want that. I think we should look at what we can do to make things better in this area. There are some recommendations for the municipalities, but we can also do something from in here. We want to help look at how we can tighten up some of these requirements, for example. you have to have an emergency plan or emergency plan. This is a little bit about Enhedslisten being against free elections. The Danish People's Party is not. In fact, we think it is good that citizens have an option.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211112443	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211112451	Thank you for the floor. Today we're dealing with B 50. It is a proposal for a parliamentary resolution on a temporary halt to the privatisation of care for the elderly. The proposal has been tabled by the Enhedslisten. I would actually like to start by signing that Enhedslisten raises the issue of bankruptcy in the care of the elderly, because it is an unfortunate situation for all parties when a company that provides services to older people or to younger citizens for that matter goes bankrupt. The intention of the Enhedslisten is that there should be a temporary halt to the privatisation of care for the elderly, and I am really in doubt as to what exactly Enhedslisten means by privatisation. However, we may get an answer to that when the Enhedslisten's rapporteur goes on the floor a little later. The Left's starting point is that free elections are a good thing for our citizens. The free choice is an asset for our older citizens. People are different and have different needs, and therefore it is quite appropriate that there is something to choose from, including when we talk about care for the elderly. For us in the Left, it is not crucial whether services to the elderly are provided by public or private employees. Nor is it an objective to choose a particular supplier. The aim is for citizens to have the opportunity and freedom and the right to choose between different suppliers and actors, and the elderly are actually happy to have something to choose from. Since 2003, we in Denmark have had the so-called free choice system, and we do not want, as the Enhedslisten proposes, to abolish the free choice. The free choice arrangements can help to raise the bar, both in terms of quality and flexibility, and I believe that competition will make us all a little sharper. So if we on the Left cannot support the Enhedslisten's proposal, it is also because it will have serious consequences both for companies and for the elderly if we stop the outsourcing or the conclusion of contracts. Actually, I think we're gonna see even more bankruptcies. In the Left, we do not want predetermined solutions in meter terms, nor do the elderly, if you ask them. In December 2015, Epinion published a study including: the attitude of the elderly towards the system of free choice for home help providers. And the older people's answers speak their clear language, for as much as 70%. considered it important or very important that there is free choice, just as more and more citizens actually actively choose a private supplier. So I actually find it hard to see who it is that is being taken care of by stopping the free-election system. It is certainly not the elderly and their desires. As I mentioned at the outset, there is a great responsibility for the municipalities to ensure both professional, qualified and stable assistance. And there's help for the municipalities. KL, Dansk Erhverv og Dansk Industri have issued five recommendations to the municipalities on how bankruptcy can be prevented, just as the DA has prepared a number of demands that the municipalities can make to the private suppliers. DI, KL and Dansk Arbejd have e.g. the municipalities were advised to focus on the soundness and equity of the companies and to require financial guarantees or collateral. These are recommendations similar to those that have come from the DA, who among other things. points to the possibility of providing both technical and economic minimum requirements. And those recommendations make good sense when it comes to preventing future bankruptcies. In conclusion, I am surprised that the Enhedslisten does not deal with the economic consequences of the proposal with a single word, but simply chooses to put forward a proposal which is completely and completely unfunded. Overall, we in the Left cannot support the Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211112821	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211112826	When we do not relate to the economy, it is because it is pure gain. For the municipalities save several crowns by not involving the private providers. There is also a study that shows this. Back to the point: will the rapporteur recognise that current legislation forces municipalities to involve private suppliers in the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211112852	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211112855	I would like to acknowledge that legislation has created the possibility of the elderly being free to choose between a public and a private supplier. I think that's an asset. I think it is a good thing, and that is exactly what the elderly themselves point to when you ask them. They are actually happy that they have the opportunity to choose the supplier freely. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, people are different. People have different needs, and I think that we as a society have a duty to meet that, namely to ensure that there is something to choose from.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211112926	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211112931	Thank you. It was indeed a surprising truth that I was presented with: that people are different. Would the rapporteur not like to reply to what I am asking? Will the rapporteur confirm that the current legislation on the so-called free choice forces municipalities to involve private suppliers in the provision of home help, understood in the sense that one model or another must have private suppliers as something that the citizen can choose from, possibly with the municipality? Will the rapporteur confirm this? And when the rapporteur confirms this, the rapporteur will have to acknowledge that then we also have an important reason for the many bankruptcies. It lies in the law itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211113009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211113013	I would like to confirm that since 2003 we have had a system of free elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211113017	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. May-May-Britten Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. I would urge you to perhaps go a little up here and use the rapporteur's table, because then we will get through the agenda more quickly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211113044	I'm sorry to keep you waiting. The Liberal Alliance certainly cannot support the proposal to temporarily stop privatisation of care for the elderly. After all, we have already heard that privatisation is probably a mistake, because there are no privatisations to stop. I assume that Enhedslisten means outsourcing, but neither does the Liberal Alliance support it. Many older people have expressed great joy at free choice, and there can only be free choice if there is something to choose from. If we stop outsourcing, we will also stop for free elections. In addition, free choice creates competition and thus increased quality and cheaper prices. That means that we will have more quality for the money. From the red wing we often hear that it is a problem that some private people make money on welfare, but it is not a problem, it is a force. Unlike the public sector, private individuals are dependent on making money. They can't just get more money from the taxpayers' pockets. If they do not make money, they must close the store and then be without their own support and perhaps even with a debt. Money can only be earned by private individuals if the product or service they sell is so good that some want it, and therefore they have to provide a quality that users are satisfied with, otherwise users, here the elderly, just choose another supplier. That is not possible if the service is provided only by the public authorities, because then citizens must be thanked, whether they are satisfied with the service or not, whether they are cleaned well enough, whether they are shown enough respect and care and whether they are saddened that a new employee is coming every time. If you stop outsourcing, the municipality is sure of the order, regardless of its quality and cost. With such a guarantee, it will be neither cheaper nor better. For the Liberal Alliance, it is absolutely crucial that the tasks are offered. What is important is not whether it is a private or a public supplier that ends up winning the supply, but rather that we ensure that the elderly get the best quality for the money. We have a responsibility towards the elderly, not to public or private suppliers. I understand the concern when private companies go bankrupt and the municipality is faced with the responsibility and the problems at short notice. This is an unfortunate and sad situation for both employees, the elderly and the municipality. But with the experience you have now gained from the bankruptcies that have not completely avoided the risk, but you can minimize the risk and you can have a plan ready if it should happen that a private company goes bankrupt. Other rapporteurs have already mentioned that the National Association of Municipalities together with Danish Business and Danish Industry has prepared five recommendations on how bankruptcy can be prevented and how to limit the negative effects of possible future bankruptcies. What the municipalities can do is that they can assess the price in relation to the task: You can see if it looks realistic, you can assess the supplier's size and economy in relation to the size of the task, i.e. whether it is equal to each other, and you can choose more than one supplier. This will both increase the freedom of choice and minimise the damage caused by a possible bankruptcy. Municipalities may also ask for guarantees or guarantees that you will be able to use directly to deal with unforeseen costs in the event of bankruptcy while providing more security for citizens, employees and municipalities. An ongoing and close dialogue with the private suppliers will increase the opportunity to discover in good time if a bankruptcy is underway. Finally, it will alleviate the situation of possible bankruptcy if you have a contingency plan ready from the outset and know how to communicate with the citizens concerned and how to solve the tasks. Both the Elders Case, Danish Industry and other relevant organisations met on 26 October to develop additional tools to prevent future bankruptcies, and I understand these tools will be made available to all the municipalities in the country, so I have no doubt that the municipalities will be better dressed in the future. And that is so I am sure that we need to maintain outsourcing because it is simply a prerequisite for free elections, and that is why the Liberal Alliance does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211113609	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211113612	Thank you. It is not surprising to me that the Liberal Alliance believes that it is very good for private companies to take over welfare tasks, so I do not expect that discussion to go so far, but I would ask the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur to address the analysis made by KORA, the analysis and research centre of the municipalities and regions, which shows that an increase in private market share, in other words in the area of home help, leads to an increase in municipal hourly prices. The conclusion is that it will be more expensive for municipalities to leave it to private people. There are a large number of reasons for this, and I am unable to outline them here, but I would ask the rapporteur to read the study. If that is true, is it still a good idea to leave the task to private people?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211113703	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211113705	Thank you. Now Mr. Finn Sørensen: in case it's true. All the studies I've seen show that you save at least 10%. by outsourcing. Of course, that is pure logic, because when there is competition around the products, you have to deliver the best product at the best price, otherwise you will not get the job, and then you will go bankrupt. So one simply depends that the product one supplies is the best and that the recipients want it, i.e. that they choose the product. If they do not choose that product, you must close your business and turn the key over with a great loss. No private suppliers are interested in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211113750	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211113754	I am therefore looking forward to the rapporteur telling me what research results show that 10% can be saved. by entrusting tasks to private individuals. This may be possible in the cleaning area, but it is also easy to find out why. This is because employees go down heavily when they are transferred to a private company. Is that the model the rapporteur would like? There are no research results showing that it is generally cheaper. On the contrary, KORA has presented an analysis showing that in the area of home care, in the area of care for the elderly, it is becoming more expensive for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211113828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211113832	Thank you. There are several analyses. Among other things: Danish Industry has an analysis that shows that outsourcing provides a saving of around 10%, and there are also other studies. I would like to forward them to the rapporteur. As far as employees in private companies are concerned, it is also widely known that they receive a better salary and that they are absolutely very happy and satisfied. There are many fewer sick days in private companies than there are in the public sector. This may be linked to the fact that the working environment is often better in private companies than it is in public companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211113909	Thank you. Then there are no further brief comments, and that is now Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211113919	Thank you so much. I think I'll start by addressing something, because I got a little confused during this debate. It is said that the authors of the motion are opposed to the free elections, and the rapporteur can then clarify this when he comes to the floor. However, as I read this motion for a resolution, one is not necessarily opposed to free elections, because it is a temporary period in which one wants to suspend the award to address the challenges that have been posed in connection with the award of care for the elderly. So we share in the alternative Enhedslisten's criticism that the current outsourcing model does not actually work as intended. It is very clear with the bankruptcies that we have seen, and it is, after all, the citizens, the private actors and the municipalities, all of them. So it seems a little like the current model doesn't really work, as I said, and we really agree with Enhedslisten that a period of reflection could actually be a very sensible idea, i.e. a period of reflection, not a stop to outsourcing forever, because we do not agree with that. However, we have heard of many bankruptcies that come from the fact that the municipalities often choose the cheap solution when they are out in these tendering rounds, and this may be understandable from the local authorities, but often it is just not sustainable in the long term, and this then results in some rather unfortunate bankruptcies that are going to affect both the elderly, the municipalities and the private ones. So we have to think. And some of what we would like to do in the alternative, if we have to think about it, and when we have to think about it, is, in fact, to start to include some other parameters than just looking at the economy when the municipalities have to assess what offer or offer they have to make. We would like to include the social bottom line, that is, something of well-being and quality of life and dignity in relation to what private operators are offering, and we would also like to include the green bottom line, in other words that it is actually sustainable offers that come from private actors. So if we could keep them up, I think it could be really nice. Nor should we be alone in thinking; we must involve the relevant parties. We could involve the private actors in helping us find out what parameters these are and how we could create an outsourcing model that works for everyone. I actually had a meeting with Falck last week and they said that it is really difficult to be a private player who has to make offers, because there are often so many narrow demands in relation to the outsourcing and there are so many frameworks that make it too difficult for them to make what they think is the best offer, and it is actually not only measured on an economic parameter. They suggested that perhaps a body be set up in the Ministry of Business and Growth to advise the municipalities on how to make good tenders. It was just an idea. I do not know whether this is the right idea, but at least I think it is interesting that there is a willingness on the part of private operators to look at how we can improve the whole idea of tendering rounds, and when we do, I think it would be interesting to see that we are not only dividing it up in public and in private, but also thinking in partnerships, that is, the whole fourth sector approach. Would it not be possible to think about how public and private alike, and also like to join civil society, can make some offers and come together to create a much broader offer, which will come much more around providing dignified care for the elderly and which is both sustainable on the economic and social as well as on the green bottom line? We would really like that, which is why we actually think that the idea of a temporary stop is interesting. We in the alternative are not opposed to privatisation or outsourcing, but we think it is time to stop and think about it, and I think that a temporary stop will probably not do much damage to the fact that some people have to hold back a little. Then there are a lot of unanswered questions, for example. How long this temporary stop was supposed to last. I cannot read that out of the motion for a resolution. There are also some other things in relation to existing invitations to tender, i.e. not existing contracts, but invitations to tender, which, for example, are: is set in motion or is about to be set in motion, etc. So there are a lot of small details to which I lack answers, but we could possibly take that in the committee work. But as a starting point, in the alternative, we are in favour of this motion for a resolution and we look forward to the further process.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211114330	Thank you. There are just a few questions or comments. Sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211114339	Thank you. I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on something that should not normally be commended, namely that the rapporteurs read the proposal and deal with its content, but since it is the first rapporteur who has done so up to now, I think there is reason to commend the rapporteur for doing so. I do not think we fully agree on whether it is at all a good idea to outsource, but the rapporteur has understood the message correctly. There is no question here as to whether the free choice system as it stands is the right one or whether we should have another one. It has been decided that we have an acute problem with a lot of bankruptcies that have been at the disadvantage of a lot of people and for some municipalities; let us just stop and then find out what we are doing about it. So thank you for that angle. Otherwise, I do not really have any questions, other than that if wrong is to be and there must be so in any case: thank you for a constructive input into the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211114444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211114447	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211114449	Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211114451	Thank you. I would like to raise a slightly different objection from that raised by Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen, because I am not quite sure that the alternative rapporteur has read the comments on the draft law. Because, as I understand the rapporteur, she is positive about the citizens having a free choice and that outsourcing is an option. But that's not what Enhedslisten means or adds up to. It says verbatim: 'The position of the Unity List is that the privatisation of municipalities must be abolished so that it is left to the individual municipality to decide for itself whether it will offer citizens a so-called free choice'. So I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not correctly understood that that is what we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211114533	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211114535	It is true that that is what it says. I have also read that remark, but I do not read it as part of the resolution. I read it as being the position of the Enhedslisten, but that is not what is being proposed. So that's my interpretation of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211114550	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211114553	Thank you. I don't think there's so much to be in doubt about. But then I'm going to use my second question to ask you about this time of reflection. The rapporteur does not want a stop forever, but a period of reflection. But how the hell are we supposed to keep alive those suppliers who may already be under a lot of pressure if we say to them: Now maybe new contracts are not to be signed next year or the next two years? Does the rapporteur not fear that we will be without any private suppliers on the market when we come out on the other side of a period of reflection?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211114619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211114621	No, I'm not afraid of that. In other words, I agree that it will of course have some consequences during a temporary period for some of the private suppliers, and I also imagine that if this were to happen, it would be one of the things that was taken into account in the negotiations and in consideration: what kind of message is it to be given to private operators? However, I have to say that I believe that if we talk about a temporary period of reflection, private operators will be able to cope.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211114647	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211114654	Thank you. The Radical Left is opposed to a temporary stop of outsourcing. That is why we are also going to vote against this proposal from the Enhedslisten. I believe that Enhedslisten has an important aim of the proposal, namely to address the problems of bankruptcy, but I also think that Enhedslisten is using the wrong means here. When, some years ago, in the ER government, we abolished the municipalities' obligation to send out services, the then Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior said Margrethe Vestager, and I would like to quote: it is important that the municipalities use the opportunities that exist to provide the best possible service to citizens, including, of course, developing it and finding new ways of doing things, involving citizens in more and more areas and using modern technology in the most forward-looking way, all the time for the benefit of taxpayers paying as little as possible and providing citizens with the best possible task solution. We want equal cooperation and a 'yes' to continue to use competitive deferrals, privatisation and outsourcing, the tools that are important for testing whether one's task solution is in order, just as it may prove that some tasks must remain in the public domain, so that one is pragmatic and proper and, above all, strategic in relation to it. I think it is very well to strike the balance between that it sometimes makes sense to let private people do it and that sometimes it makes sense that it is the municipality itself that does the job. And that is why I believe more that we should follow the recommendations made by KL, Dansk Arbejd and DI in August last year that municipalities, for example. must make demands on the suppliers' economy, as did the Elders Case in October, in a set of common points for good cooperation between municipalities and private suppliers. I really think that this debate raises the question of where best to do the job. And I would like to say to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten that it will not be more serious or more proper for us here in the Danish Parliament to interfere. The actions taken in the municipalities and in the KL are just as serious and just as right, and I wish Enhedslisten would acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211114942	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211114945	We are just starting from the reality that the Folketing is interfering. After all, the Folketing has done this with the legislation in this area, which forces the municipalities to involve the private actors in the care of the elderly. It's the Folketing that's interfering. And that is a strong factor in our being in the situation we are in, also because, if it were finally to interfere, the Folketing did not do it in the right way, that is to say, a way that ensured that we did not get into all these terrible situations of bankruptcy. So the starting point is that the Folketing is interfering. Point 1: Is that a good idea? Paragraph 2: Does the rapporteur think that the recommendations that have now been made, through the fact that some major market players have sat down and talked about things, are a guarantee that we will not get into the boring situations that we have been in in the last two to three years?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211115043	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211115046	On Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) 1 whether it's a good idea: Yes, I think it is. On Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) 2 on whether or not I can give a guarantee that the recommendations now made are some kind of guarantee that we will not see bankruptcy again: No, of course I cannot, but Mr. Finn Sørensen couldn't do it either. What is the question here is who is the right person to solve the problems, and I think that in this case it is the right approach that the municipalities and the KL have taken the lead in solving the problems, so I support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211115121	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211115124	I would just like to ask the rapporteur to take a look at the concrete proposal for a temporary halt to the legislation we have, because it obviously involves very unsustainable situations. That is what I would like the rapporteur to do. I would also ask the rapporteur to look at the fact that things are not in order in the municipalities. This is just to give an example: only almost half of the municipalities are living up to a contingency plan for such a situation. So could the rapporteur not try to deal with the substantive content of the proposal rather than move forward with the whole ideological discussion?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211115159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211115202	I disagree with Enhedslisten's proposal. I do not think that the right answer in the situation we are in is to make a temporary stop. On the contrary, I believe that the right thing is for the municipalities also to take the lead in strengthening their work on it and to ensure that this resolves the problems of bankruptcy. Because we fully agree that there have been problems, and we need to correct them. The municipalities have taken the lead in this, and I think that is a proper approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211115230	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211115240	These problems have actually arisen because the Danish Parliament has adopted a law on free elections which says that the municipalities must, as this proposal is about, be put on a temporary pause until the consequences of the legislation that exists today have been determined. And the reason why we have tabled the proposal is precisely that we can see the very serious bankruptcies that are going on all over the country, of which there have been many, and which affect the elderly and other citizens who receive care around the municipalities. So when the rapporteur says that we should not interfere here on the part of Christiansborg, the best way to stop interfering would be to vote in favour of the Enhedslisten's proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211115330	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211115333	I think that the rules, as they are now, strike the balance that I was also trying to outline in my rapporteur's speech, namely that in this area you have the opportunity to choose between whether to use the municipality or whether to use a private supplier. I think that is precisely the balance that needs to be struck in that there may be advantages in that it is a private person who does so, but that there can therefore also be advantages in that it is the municipality. So there I think we have the balance. Therefore, as Enhedslisten proposes here, I do not want you to go in and make a temporary stop in order to be able to use the private suppliers, which is why I do not think the Folketing should interfere with it. I think it is right, as the municipalities have taken the initiative to ensure that the problems are solved, because here the Enhedslisten has a very correct point. It hasn't been good enough, and it needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211115426	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211115432	So let me ask the question in another way: how will the rapporteur feel about the Danish Parliament not interfering in whether the municipalities should use a private supplier, that we leave it up to the municipalities, whether they want to use a private supplier or not, so whether the municipalities want to be responsible solely for the care of the elderly themselves, or whether the municipalities also want to involve a private supplier? What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211115458	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211115500	I think we have the right balance in this area, as it is now when you can choose between the municipality and a private supplier. But otherwise I would say to the Enhedslisten that this was one of the things that the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left actually worked together on in the previous period of government, when, moreover, we abolished the requirement of coercion imposed by the former bourgeois government, so that we should not, death and torment, make tenders wherever the municipalities thought they could do the best for themselves. It is because I think we should strike the balance that is in that sometimes it makes sense to do one thing and that sometimes it makes sense to do the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211115539	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211115545	Thank you. As we have already been around, this proposal is basically about the fact, as I read it, that there is a concern in the Enhedslisten and I share it, I would like to say that in relation to the problems that outsourcing in home care has thus caused for a large number of municipalities. If I have to take one thing in the proposal, I think it will be difficult to make it with effect from 1 February 2016, but let us not hang ourselves in those details. I understand the essence of the motion for a resolution, and I am quite sure that we can adapt it. I would also like to comment on the comments made in the motion for a resolution, because in this way I share the view of Enhedslisten, namely that this privatisation obligation on municipalities is the basic problem in which I agree. What can, of course, then be the discussion is how to deal with it in concrete terms. I agree that we on the part of the Danish Parliament should not demand that a certain percentage be forcibly allocated. I think that is the wrong way to go. Having said that, I would like to say that I also do not think that we in Parliament should go the opposite way and say that we should not force the municipalities not to outsource either. I believe that, in the end, this is also about local self-government and that the Folketing should have an arm's length arm and an acceptance and respect for local self-government. In the final analysis, it must be the municipalities that assess whether they choose to outsource, depending on, as a rule, what the political majority looks like in each municipality. But it is for me to see in the end that the decision has to be made. As I read the proposal here, there are two other issues. It is a matter of concern for the compulsory licensing which the Folketing has already imposed on the municipalities. I agree with that. And then it also raises the question of the very many problems we have seen in very many private companies in home care. That is why I fully share this concern, and that is why I believe that we can gather together on a proposal on how to proceed with it. Because I very much agree with what Enhedslisten also writes, namely that there are problems with private home care, not least when you choose to turn the key and say: Hey, now we can't do any more; by the way, we leave it safe for the municipality to service the older citizens who had otherwise counted on the services of our private home help company. So there are some platters and crooks that we somehow have to look at how to get out. Because it creates insecurity among the elderly, who unfortunately all too often experience that they cannot get the service that they actually expected to receive, simply because the company chooses to turn the key. So I think that there are a lot of good things in the proposal, and I would like to help work on it. But basically, I believe that the decision as to whether to privatise one part or the other and how much one wants to outsource is essentially a municipal task which must lie with the individual city councils.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211115827	Sir. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211115831	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and again thank you for a constructive approach. Now we are all up to two rapporteurs who are dealing with what is in the proposal, so it is moving forward very strongly, I have to say. That's really good. For me, it sounds as if we agree, because Enhedslisten agrees that it must be up to the individual municipality to decide whether private suppliers should be involved in the care of the elderly. This should be made clear in the comments. This is certainly a view we have had for a very, very long time, and we have also proposed it on other occasions. This temporary stop is so dictated by the situation we are in. That is why we are putting forward this proposal, knowing that there will then be disagreement as to what it will be like afterwards. But we need to clear it up, and if the rapporteur agrees with that, then I think we should try to continue working on a report in committee and see if we could perhaps be able to gather a little more than three parties. Then we will certainly have presented a common view. So is it to be understood that the rapporteur is ready for us to try to work on a joint report which we seem to be able to include in the alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211115941	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211115944	We are also prepared by the SF to see if we can make a report. In fact, I very much agree that there is a fundamental problem in the care of the elderly with the fact that there are a great many examples of companies which are not really able to operate what they are offering and which therefore also ultimately expose the elderly to the huge problem and the enormous risk that they will suddenly not get the services they had actually expected in terms of help in their own homes. So I think that is a fundamental problem on which we need to find solutions. I very much agree with that. I also fully agree with what is stated in the proposal that it should be left to the individual municipality to decide. Perhaps that is why I am a little concerned that we in the Folketing should come in and say that we are now going to force the municipalities to make a temporary stop. I believe that we must find a different model and identify the problem that I agree with there and also look at what we can do to remedy it. It may be acting, among other things. to impose stricter requirements on the private firms which bid. These may be capital requirements, they may be requirements, they may be requirements, they may be requirements, they may be requirements, they may be required, they may be required, they may be required, they may be required, they may be required, they may be required to carry out the task that they actually offer, and they may also have to be consistent if they do not do so. That consequence is too limited today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211120048	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211120051	Thank you. Then we do not entirely agree, but that does not change the fact that this is a constructive debate. Is the rapporteur's last remarks to be understood in such a way that we could possibly correct the legislation now in force in this area, so that it was made clear that, if the municipalities outsource, there are certain requirements they have to meet, which can give us a little more assurance that things will not go wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211120120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211120123	I very much agree that we need to look at the legislation in terms of creating security, so that the citizens who receive help, regardless of whether it is municipal or private, should, of course, have greater certainty that they will be provided with that service. Funny enough, the public always tends to actually deliver that service, at least far along the way. Of course, there may also be outcomes on the municipal side. But the private sector is the big problem here, and that is why it is a question of imposing stricter requirements on the private sector so that they can actually deliver the services they offer. So I actually think that we are very much in agreement, and then we can have a little disagreement as to how it should be formulated in relation to this proposal. But I believe that we can actually get together on a report, and we from the SF would like to be involved in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211120157	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211120216	Thank you. In the Conservative People's Party, we do not support this resolution, and we do not, because we are basically in favour of requiring municipalities to allow the use of a private supplier. I'm glad, too, sir. Finn Sørensen confesses in his comments on the motion for a resolution that it appears that Enhedslisten does not believe that it should be an obligation for the municipalities. We recognise that there have been problems with bankruptcy and, of course, this is something we need to take seriously. This creates uncertainty for the citizen. I have spoken to many different parties in this matter, and what I hear from several places is that a great deal of the mistakes that have been made have been learnt. You can be annoyed that it took them to make mistakes before you got that insight. However, in relation to the requirements and criteria to be set, we need to improve our dialogue with those who make unrealistic cheap offers based solely on the price. So I think it is great that we have had a thorough evaluation work and had that experience. However, the Conservative People's Party does not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211120327	Thank you. I can then say that I had actually considered finishing the whole point, but I think that we all have agreements here around 8 a.m. 12 noon, where there is usually a break, and I can see that it is about the same rapporteurs who are on the next legislative proposal, so I call the meeting now, and then it is Mr. Finn Sørensen, who after the break must have some brief comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211130128	The sitting is resumed. We shall resume the first reading of motion for a resolution No. B 50 by Mr. Finn Sørensen. We have Mrs Mette Abildgaard in the Chair as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party, and there is a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211130150	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for a very brief and clear and precise rapporteur's speech, in particular a clear statement that it is important for the Conservative People's Party to oblige municipalities to involve private companies; and the rapporteur nods, so I remember correctly. Well, it is the very clear difference between our two parties, but it is always a pleasure when the positions are stated quite clearly. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is: since it is so important that from here we impose this privatisation on the municipalities, as I call it, is it not a good idea that we also write clearly and clearly in the law, which things the municipality should take into account? Is it then the case that the municipality must demand the financial soundness of the company to which the assignment is to be entrusted? It's just to give you one example.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211130247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211130248	Thank you. I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Finn Sørensen thought it was a clear and short speech, and I would say briefly, probably primarily because I knew that I was the only one standing between you and lunch, and then you should always be brief. I would say that there are very different situations in the municipalities, compared to how much competition and demand really is when it comes to being allowed to provide these services. That is why I think it can be difficult to make completely uniform rules, because everything else equal, there may be a difference in how many private suppliers want to bid in Frederikshavn and in Copenhagen, and that was to give just two examples. I think it is very good when you come up with some guidelines, some recommendations, about what the municipalities should be aware of. It may be if we stand here in 5 years and still have an equally high frequency in bankruptcies that we should talk about doing something here by the Folketing, but now I think we should give the municipalities a chance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211130345	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211130346	I am glad, then, that the rapporteur does not entirely reject the possibility that when we make a request to the municipalities not only an order that they should outsource and involve the private, and we disagree on that, but the Conservatives would also like to assume responsibility as legislator and say: if the municipality does so, we must learn from the boring experiences we have here today, also impose conditions on the municipalities that they check that the economy of these companies is in order before they sign a contract with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211130420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211130421	I think that an order should be the last resort, because I want the municipalities first and foremost to have the opportunity to make their tenders according to the local conditions. But I would also like to say that when I have met with some of the private suppliers on this market, they themselves point out that there is an extremely large difference between municipalities in terms of what it takes to be approved as a supplier. In some places it almost requires only a signature, while elsewhere it requires more documentation. But I think the municipalities have learned that a deep insight is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211130454	The next question is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211130458	After all, the rapporteur himself says that there are very great differences between the individual municipalities. Is it not also for this reason that it is actually wrong for the Folketing to go in and, in such a way, force the municipalities to use private suppliers in the care of the elderly? Would one not show greater respect for local self-government and the differences that exist in the individual municipalities if one said: It may well be that the municipalities will use private suppliers, but then it should only be a decision that is taken in the individual municipality, and not something that Christiansborg should interfere with?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211130533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211130534	When Conservatives are prepared for us from Christiansborg to interfere in this, it is because it should be a fundamental right for the elderly to have the opportunity to choose between several good offers when you have to have a supplier. We think this is an important principle and we think it is a principle that all citizens should have the opportunity to live out. It's not like we're forcing this through places where it doesn't make any sense at all. I am not entirely sure what I am saying now, but I believe that on Samsø, for example, no private suppliers have tendered in because there was no market for it. There were too few older people to keep it together. And in those places, it can't be done. I mean, we can't force the market like that. So I still think that there is some sort of flexibility in the scheme today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211130620	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211130621	However, there is no flexibility in the sense that there are many different municipalities, and there are also many different market situations in the individual municipalities. And in this situation a majority of Christiansborg has nevertheless chosen to say: Well there must be death and torment always and in any case be a private supplier as an alternative to what the municipality can provide. It is therefore to me that it is an expression of the fact that local conditions and local self-determination are not respected. Because it may well be that you want a private supplier, but then I think the municipal council has to decide. We should not force it down on the municipalities from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211130659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211130659-2	I know that only a few municipalities have been able to meet this demand that there should be an option for the citizen, and in those places it has not been said that there should be death and torment. There it has been respected that with the market situation there was simply not enough work to do for private suppliers. So I don't think we're gonna force it through like that. I just think it's important that there's a choice for the elderly. That must be a fundamental principle. At least we believe this in Conservatives, but I am aware that the rapporteur's party has a different view.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211130730	Thank you to the rapporteur. I shall now pass on the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211130739	Thank you. And thank you for the debate. It has been good since there has been no one up here saying that there is no problem that it is not a problem with these bankruptcies and that nothing needs to be done about it. So we have not really been scolded for making the proposal, and we are happy about that. Special thanks are due to the rapporteurs for the SF and the alternative, because they actually relate to what the proposal is about, while all the other rapporteurs have not tried to do so, but to something else. After all, the proposal is to introduce a temporary halt to the forced privatisation that we have in the legislation today, so that we can get this area properly under control. The background is, of course, the many bankruptcies that have taken place in the last 3-4 years, which have caused up to 8,000 citizens to be affected. Suddenly they have had to be forced on a change of supplier with all the unrest that comes from it. It has also affected at least 700 employees. At least that is what the FOA has spoken out about, some of whom have been in a rather serious situation, it has to be said, because they have lost their jobs with the private supplier, but the municipality does not dare to take them over because of some quirks in the law on the transfer of undertakings. After all, this is an independent problem which we must also address. And it has bothered, to put it mildly, a number of municipalities, which have been forced to put a replacement on the legs of the private supplier, who has now turned the key, with associated additional costs. I recognise that there is no full overview of the cost involved. The minister answers that you cannot give. But I think it's been a pretty expensive affair if you talk it all together. You can use Kolding Municipality as an example, where the municipality itself said that when you figured it all with • plus and minus • there was an additional cost for Kolding Municipality of 14 million. kr. Because of the bankruptcies. I think that our proposal is necessary because things are not in order yet. In fact, it recognizes most of the rapporteurs who have been up here, and this is also evident from the statements we have received from the Minister and from the study, such as the one we have received. The magazine Municipality has completed where they have called all municipalities and found the answer that 86 per cent. of the municipalities use private providers of home help or care for the elderly, and at 59 per cent. of the municipalities have experienced bankruptcy. But it's still going to be 54 per cent. the municipalities which use private providers, which have a contingency plan for how to deal with it, just as it has also emerged, as has also been said from the platform, that there are very large differences in the requirements of private suppliers in the procurement process and, to a very large extent, also differences in whether the requirements imposed can effectively minimise the risk of bankruptcy. That is why we are putting forward the proposal for a temporary stop until things are sorted out. As the rapporteurs from the SF and the Alternative have remarked, the motion for a resolution itself does not take up what should be voted on as to what should happen when the temporary stop comes to an end. We know very well that we have a clear disagreement here in the Folketing. The view of the Enhedslisten on the question of what should replace a temporary stop and also replace the existing legislation, yes, that is respect for local self-government. We must not force the municipalities to privatise the care of the elderly. It must be up to the individual municipal council to decide whether it is now a good idea in their municipality. Finally, if we are to talk about differences between municipalities, it was probably the best way to ensure that the municipalities had the opportunity to take account of the differences. When we look at the recommendations which are, like, being worked on in various fora, yes, I would venture to claim that they do not in themselves solve the problem. First of all, they are very general. Secondly, they are not binding on the municipalities or, for that matter, on the companies themselves. There is no attempt on the part of Dansk Industri or Dansk Erhvervs side to bind suppliers to a very specific way of making offers, nor has there so far been a willingness in the Danish Parliament to relate specifically to that issue. So we do not think that we are in any way in line with this whole issue, therefore, our proposal. Then we are asked what the economic consequences are. Of course, we could have written something about that. That would be very short. There are no or at best positive financial consequences for the municipalities. This proposal will not hit any companies, because they have signed a contract, and we respect it, and then companies know that if there is a temporary halt to privatisation when that contract expires, then their agreement will expire. It does not really differ from the situation in which the company is located. After all, no company can know whether it has a contract going beyond the date specified in the contract. So there will be no question of paying compensation to some companies. Nor will it be a question of any citizen being caught up because the municipalities know when the various contracts will expire, and then the municipality will have the opportunity to take account of the situation in good time, contrary to the situation they are facing today, when they can be given a notice at a few hours' notice that the home help provider has now turned the key. I cannot completely rid myself of the notion that, among the parties that reject this proposal, there is a greater regard for private companies and their ability to earn some money for some private shareholders than there is for the well-being of the citizens and for the ability of the municipalities to carry out the care of the elderly in the most responsible way, so that there is always the security of supply that should be in this situation. So the position of the Enhedslisten, when we discuss what should replace the existing legislation, is that we should abolish the privatisation requirement. On the other hand, we also believe that which other rapporteurs may also be susceptible to talk about • that if it is the case that the municipalities choose to privatise areas as sensitive as care for the elderly and for that matter other welfare tasks, then we have to from the legislature in the light of the experience we have with this, to say to the municipalities that then there are certain things they have to secure in those contracts so that the public and hence taxpayers do not risk coming into the situations that we have seen here. Anyway, thank you for the debate. I hope that we may continue to do so a few more minutes. But I think everyone's aware of that, and I think everyone's prepared to believe that there's not going to be an end to it with this. So I look forward to working on this whole question. In the first place, I look forward in particular to the possibility that we, together with the SF and the Alternative, may arrive at a bid for a report or at least some indications of how it should be worked on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211131549	Thank you. And the debate is continuing. There is a brief comment from Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211131556	This debate is taking place on two levels. One very concrete level is the resolution, which deals with a temporary stop to the free choice of the elderly, because some carers sometimes go bankrupt. But the second level is a major discussion, as Mr. Finn Sørensen himself also raises the voice: should we stop, not only temporarily but permanently, with the municipalities having a duty to co-finance private care services if the citizens so wish? There I would like to ask: is this a principle that Enhedslisten has in all areas? Does Enhedslisten mean e.g. also that we should put an end to free school legislation, which ensures that parents have the right to choose a private or free school with public cofinancing, if they so wish? In other words, should the municipalities be allowed to say: No, in our municipality we do not want free and private schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211131657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211131659	What we are talking about here is privatisation/locating welfare tasks. That's what we're dealing with. We do not have any suggestion that we should stop the possibility of obtaining a public grant for free schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211131713	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211131715	Now school is also a kind of welfare assignment in this society. And I am just surprised that if it is an excellent principle in the area of school that citizens can opt for an alternative to the public school system, then it is not also an excellent principle in the area of the elderly that the elderly can opt for an alternative to the public system. Well, why is it that is good for children and their parents so infinitely bad for the elderly? In other words, why should not the rights that Enhedslisten, together with us, will give to children and their parents in the field of school be extended to the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211131754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211131755	Because it's not the same. What we are talking about here is the forced privatisation of a welfare task. After all, there is no forced privatisation as such in the free school law. But it is there in this area because we have legislation that requires the municipalities to make sure that there is a damn difference if you can use such a word here; I'm not quite sure about that, but now I've used it, it got out. There's a hell of a difference in that. I would just like to say that we do not agree that the nice term should be used freely for what is going on. After all, it is a pseudo-election, because what the Minister said earlier from the platform is not right, so if you take advantage of this free choice, the citizen will decide for himself who comes to the citizen's home. No, the citizen does not. It is, of course, the private supplier chosen by the citizen who decides who goes to the citizen's home. So it's a pseudo-free choice. When we speak free choice, it is a free choice for the provision of home help, which is best expressed now my speaking time runs out in this idea of the rock map. It is a genuinely free choice for the citizen in terms of how home help is to be provided. There is absolutely no question of that here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211131915	There is another brief comment from Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211131920	Thank you. Does Finn Sørensen think that the elderly citizen will have a greater choice, in relation to who can go to the individual home, by stopping the outsourcing of elderly care?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211131933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211131934	In fact, I believe that if the municipalities do not shift their resources to private companies, then there is a greater possibility for municipalities to be able to provide more satisfactory home help. Because I am not one of those who claim that the public service is always the best and uncritical of home help. I believe that many things need to be corrected, first of all because the municipalities have been subjected for many years to severe cuts, such as the one that has occurred in the past. has resulted in a loss of at least 5.5 million. home help lessons from the elderly area. And that is because of the austerity requirements imposed by a majority in the Folketing on the municipalities for many years. So it is clear if the citizens see that there are some flaws and shortcomings in public home care. That is what needs to be corrected, and this is not done by transferring public resources to private companies on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211132036	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211132038	Will the rapporteur deny that the vast majority of older citizens have experienced greater satisfaction with private care than with public care and that there are many studies showing that they are really happy to have the free choice of supplier? And why should the possibility of saying that it should be a particular person be more difficult with a private supplier than if it were the municipality? If the municipality can go in and say that it must be a certain person who comes out as a home care provider... I've never seen that either... Why wouldn't a private supplier be able to?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211132111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211132112	However, the private supplier can also do so if the private company considers that there is a certain employee who has to come in them and those homes all the time. The public can do the same. It has nothing to do with the free choice. On the contrary, the fact is that moving resources from the public sector to the private sector makes the public sector more difficult to meet good quality standards. This is what the study from KORA shows, i.e. the larger the private share, the more expensive it will be for the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211132146	We thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211132203	The debate is open. I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) in order to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group)
ParlaMint-DK_20160211132221	Our rapporteur on this bill, Mrs Yildiz Akdogan, is unfortunately prevented from attending the first reading today, which is why I have been given the task of reading the rapporteur's speech on behalf of her. Socialists are working to combat illegal drugs and to help drug addicts to live dignified lives. It requires a broad and holistic approach if far fewer people are to start drug abuse and more are to get out of their addictions, while at the same time reducing the damage caused by the abuse that is taking place after all. That is why, as part of the then S-SF-R government together with Enhedslisten and Liberal Alliance in 2012, we had a legal basis for the creation and operation of the so-called drug intake room, in popularly called fixerum. We did so in order to help a large group of people to survive their drug abuse without having infectious diseases such as AIDS. hepatitis or HIV and help to avoid amputation and to help them perhaps one day to understand how to seek treatment, whether it is heroin treatment, methadone treatment or drug-free treatment. Since then, both the City of Copenhagen, Aarhus Municipality and Odense Municipality have taken advantage of the opportunity and created a fixerum. The evaluation of May last year showed that the rooms are being used and useful. Thus, in 2014, there were 3,564 active users of the fixerums, and from the fixerums was created until the end of 2014, they provided the framework for 355.255 drug intakes, which would otherwise very well have happened under extremely unhygienic circumstances in stairwells or behind containers at risk for both life, limbs and health, and without there would have been health professionals present to help if something had gone wrong. Therefore, it is also interesting that from the creation of the fixerummes until the end of 2014 there were 301 cases of acute treatment due to an overdose or severe poisoning where users could not breathe. None of these users died, but had it happened anywhere other than in the fixerummen, emergency treatment had not in the same way been an option. Therefore, it is also concluded in the evaluation that the fixes benefit both users and the surrounding community. The few problems associated with the fixerums, as the evaluation shows, are mainly of a practical nature. One of them is from Copenhagen, where there has been a problem with a small particularly strained group of drug addicts who are unable to take their drugs without the help of another person, for example. because they cannot find a useful vein or because they shake too much on the hand because of withdrawal. This problem has been dealt with pragmatically in the City of Copenhagen. Here it has been decided to condone the formal violation of law and instead confine itself to imposing the existing rules that the user should make the drug consumption himself, otherwise the assisted drug consumption would only take place in more dangerous and unsanitary forms than in the fix room, which is contrary to the whole spirit behind the creation of the fixer rooms. Therefore, the bill we are discussing today should allow a user of a fixerum to give his consent that another person can help with the drug intake. However, this person must be at least 18 years old and must not be employed in the fix room. The Socialists consider that this amendment is entirely in line with the aims of the fixerummen and can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211132522	Thank you to the rapporteur. I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211132535	Fixerum is something that we have debated many times in this Chamber, and it was one of the first areas I had to deal with when I entered the Folketing 8 years ago. In the Danish People's Party we were also visiting some of the places where you wanted fixerum at the time, and we heard about the genes that were around in the different cities. At that time, we decided that we were opposed to fixerum, because we could not really see the advantage or the obvious fact that addicts first acquired some money in a criminal way, then bought some drugs from a criminal and then supported some backers who got the drugs, and then went somewhere and were allowed to shoot themselves with drugs that kept them in an abuse. So the times when matters have been up in this Chamber, we have voted no. I also did so in my time as rapporteur, going round and visiting some of the addicts who were at day-care centres. I visited some of the municipalities that had some abuse centres where this challenge was taken seriously. And some of what I met out there then founded the policy that we have in the Danish People's Party that we actually believe that fixerum and now this about allowing the addict to get a comrade into the fixelance or in the fixeroom to help him stab himself in the arm is the wrong way to go. I was at Vesterbro a few weeks ago talking to two people who I was glad to hear had been going to medical prescribed heroin. It is a treatment which we helped to introduce and which can be given to those concerned. Unfortunately, it is not everyone's fault to be able to get prescribed heroin, because if you live somewhere in the country where you can't get it, you're cut off from it. But at that time we could see that helping abusers instead of keeping them in abuse would have to be better. We have therefore also helped to support round-the-clock treatment via the rate pool on several occasions, and we believe that if we are to do something for these very addicts, it is to help them in relation to the social. We must therefore ensure that some of those who are homeless have a place to go and that they are maintained in their relations with their families. One of the people I spoke to at Vesterbro had three children and was homeless. She got her help from the municipality, and since she got money from the municipality, she was also told that if she had to make her teeth, which she lacked half of, she had to pay for it herself. So it's so a little poor that we can go out and say that it's all right for them to stab themselves and that they can also get someone to help themselves stab themselves, because then we're free to do something, we're free from having any consequences for this particular group. I think we should look at how we can help them to get out of the abuse rather than just keep them in it. So I have a lot of questions for the bill. When I have seen the addicts at Vesterbro, I can see that they have problems and that they have some challenges, if they are, they shake a lot and cannot stab themselves. But there are some questions, also in relation to the fact that it is in the bill that it is up to the municipality to decide whether to allow it. Is it not, then, to exempt the Folketing from taking responsibility? And what happens if you get an overdose from your buddy? Who is responsible? So we have a number of questions on this and I look forward to the debate in committee. That is our comment so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211132933	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to Mrs Jane Heitmann as rapporteur on the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211132941	Thank you for the floor. Today we are first treating L 112, draft law amending the law on drugs with the subtitle assisted drug intake. One of the things that a welfare society among others. To be known is the way to deal with the very weakest citizens. This applies to drug addicts, homeless people, prostitutes and, at the very least, to those who live on the extreme edge of the established society. Since 2012, drug users in Denmark have been able to take advantage of drug consumption rooms, and in May 2015 the first evaluation was carried out. And there are certainly positive aspects that are worth highlighting. For example: There have been several cases in which drug addicts have been overdosed and in this connection the staff have stepped in with help and no one has died of an overdose in the drug intake rooms. However, in connection with the operation of the drug intake rooms, a problem has emerged, especially in the Copenhagen area, for a small group of very heavily burdened drug users, and it challenges both users and staff. These are a small group of heavily strained injection users, including: due to severe withdrawal cannot self inject the substance either because they cannot see or can reach a useful vein, or because they are so abstinent that it is not possible for them to inject the substance by their own means. The bill here must take into account the small and particularly heavily strained group of drug addicts by making it legal that others can help to inject the drug. In concrete terms, this means that a drug addict can have a friend or friend who can be a health care professional inject the drug separately. Each municipal council must authorise assisted drug intake and it must be recorded each time assisted drug intake is involved. There are, among other things: a number of ethical issues associated with assisted drug intake, and there is some danger associated with it. Therefore, it is important to point out that we in the Left attach particular importance to assisted drug intake being carried out under the enhanced supervision of qualified personnel and that the user agrees that assisted drug intake is at the user's own responsibility. It must therefore be clearly stated that it is in agreement with that condition and that such an indication must be registered. Last but not least, we also stress from a professional perspective that it is not the personnel in the drug intake rooms who help, but an outside person. Although there are several positive effects or aspects of drug intake rooms, we must continue to keep in mind how best to help abusers out of their abuse or to create the best possible living conditions for the group of addicts who are particularly heavily burdened. For us in the Left, all citizens are equal and are entitled to care and respect, and we want to reduce the mortality of people with drug abuse. Quick treatment and treatment guarantees as well as free choice between approved public and private treatment services are some of the initiatives that have been launched in recent years to help and motivate drug addicts out of their abuses. We know that too many drug addicts live dangerous lives with the risk of unclean drugs, an overdose, crime, homelessness or prostitution as regular companions. And we have an obligation to try to help these people back to life. One of the users of prescribed heroin in the evaluation of this particular scheme expresses the following: I have had my life back. The evaluation indicates, among other things, that side abuse and crime have fallen for users of the scheme, in other words in the case of prescribed heroin, and this is also positive. On the left side, we can fully support the legislative proposal that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211133347	Thank you. There is one brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211133352	Thank you. As you know, in 2012, the Liberal Party voted against the draft law which made it possible to create drug consumption rooms. So my question is quite simple: is this bill an expression of the fact that the Left has also, in general, changed its position on the question of drug consumption spaces and whether we now support the idea and the possibility that lies in the legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211133416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211133417	As I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, there is an evaluation from May 2015 which points to a number of positive aspects of precisely drug intake spaces. We've never been what to say religiously in our approach to drug consumption rooms. We had some concerns and I am actually pleased to see that the evaluation is as positive as it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211133446	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211133448	I regard that answer as a yes to the fact that the Left now supports the idea of space for drug consumption, and I think that is extremely positive, because I fully agree with the rapporteur that what must be at the heart is the effect that can be seen from the evaluation that it has. As far as I am concerned, it certainly means that we now have a very broad majority in the Danish Parliament, which supports the areas of drug consumption that we have, and thus also a very strong foundation for their continuation. So I think it's gratifying.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211133520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211133521	One of the concerns that we had left in 2012 was the schism that is between having drugs on them and having to enter a drug intake room. We were worried about enforcement, that is, about the scenarios that could be played out there. However, the evaluation points out that, according to the evaluation, the cooperation between police, drug use rooms and local areas has not given rise to major conflicts, and I am actually pleased about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211133552	Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, Mrs Stine Brix, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211133557	Thank you. It is quite true, as several rapporteurs have said, that this is a matter of history, in fact a long story of over 20 years at least, where the inhabitants of Vesterbro initially fought for the possibility of taking their material under hygienic, safe and secure conditions. It was a long and tough fight that was fought from there, and in 2012 it resulted in a majority in the Folketing coming together to make it possible to create drug intake rooms. In 2012 it was from in here that it could have at least three positive effects: firstly, and that is also the most important thing that it could reduce the number of drug addicts who lost their lives too early, and unfortunately there are many of them; secondly, that it could improve the health of drug addicts, because one thing is death, but another effect of drug abuse, for example. If you take your substance under unsanitary conditions, you may get infectious diseases or other types of damage; and thirdly, that it would lead to a safer local environment in those areas where there are many drug addicts, without for example: free-range needles in playgrounds, stairwells, etc. It's been four years and we can see that it's working. The drug intake rooms have prevented death. In more than 300 cases, according to the evaluation report we have received, it has at least been documented that there has been a poisoning or overdose that could potentially have led to the death of the person, but because it happened in a drug intake room, where there were health professionals who could step in, that death could be prevented. In the evaluation, which the rapporteur of the Left also referred to just now, the Ministry of Health also writes that it is such a little more official language, it can be said that the drug service room seems to be an effective measure which brings clear benefits to the target group as well as to the surrounding community. So it's basically a really good story. I do not claim that this is the end of our work to ensure that fewer people die, or fewer, who suffer harm from drug abuse. We are far from that, and although we may look at the solution differently, I fully agree with the rapporteurs who have raised the issue of criminalising this area. The fact that you are going out to acquire your material through crime, and all that goes with it, is one of the things that is an extreme strain on some of these citizens. But since we are at drug intake rooms, I would like to say that they have at least been an important contribution to getting closer to the targets we have. I think they have been a much more effective contribution than moral opinions that drug abuse should not exist, or raised points of reference, or whatever else one might resort to. What we are dealing with today is a minor adjustment of the law back from 2012. As several people have said, it is, in fact, a simple matter that we know today that there is a small group of drug addicts who, because they are shaking their hands so much, are not able to consume their own drugs themselves, and today they cannot legally be helped to do so. That's what you open up an opportunity for. I think that makes sense, because I do not think the alternative is that those addicts who have been abusers for very, very many years suddenly stop being so. The alternative is perhaps rather that instead of it taking place in a drug intake room where there are hygienic conditions and where there are health professionals, assistance and drug consumption move out of the drug intake room and back into the basement shaft or stairwell, and that is what we want to avoid by ensuring that this can now become legal. Let us say that some people are out there thinking and I could also hear that someone was sitting in this Chamber from the Danish People's Party who did this: if something goes wrong, whose responsibility is it? In fact, I think it is important to mention that it takes a position on the legislative proposal, because it is the case that the person who consumes a substance has to give its consent, which means that he/she assumes responsibility himself if something happens. After all, it is very important that anyone who helps cannot be held responsible if something serious happens afterwards. In the end, you are responsible for the substance you consume. Finally, I would just like to use a few sentences to welcome the fact that the Left and thus the government have changed their attitude to the drug consumption rooms, as the rapporteur of the Left also confirmed just now. If I re-read the debate from 2012, it is clear to me that you were not only skeptical, but that you were fiercely opposed to drug use rooms at the time. Nevertheless, I think it is positive that there are now different pragmatic tones, and I think it is important to ensure stability about the drug intake rooms, and I think we have done so now by a broad majority in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211134113	Thank you to the rapporteur. I give the floor to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211134120	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill. In no way do we see the use of drugs as harmless. The serious damage and risks associated with drug abuse are well known. However, there is a group of drug-dependent injecting users, and this group belongs to the weakest citizens of society, and they need help. It is well known that this has long been the policy of the Liberal Alliance, and I am therefore very pleased that the parties in the pool negotiations have agreed to allocate funds to the drug consumption rooms so that they can continue. Drug consumption rooms are of great value to both users and the surrounding community. For users, this means less mortality and fewer diseases, among others. because clean needles can be dispensed in these rooms, thus avoiding the use of infected needles. This means fewer admissions, more security and even a little positive social experiences when they meet a smiling staff who talk to them. And for the surrounding society, for example, there are. less risk of used and infected needles in stairwells. So far, it has been the case that those drug addicts who cannot inject, that is to say, inject themselves, because they have so many withdrawal and shake so much that they are unable to find or hit a useful vein, have not been able to get help. However, since these people will in any case try to inject themselves into the arm, it is a great pleasure to see that this proposal envisages another person being able to help, instead of the addict being rejected and being referred to streets or stairwells. It is also very positive that it was included in the proposal that health professionals should assist. However, it is a pity that healthcare professionals employed in the drug intake rooms cannot be able to assist with the injection itself when required. That possibility had Liberal Alliance would have liked to have been included, as it could help to further reduce the risk of death and illness. If one decides to open up such an opportunity, it must, of course, be aligned with the wishes of the staff and there must be a legal clarification of where the responsibility lies in the event of damage. However, as I said, the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211134351	Thank you to the rapporteur. I give the floor to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211134358	Thank you. I am not going to repeat the many good things that have been said up here from the platform about what the drug consumption rooms have of positive effects for both users and the surrounding society, but say that these are some things that we in the alternative very much agree with. That is why we also support this bill. We think it is very good that the government has chosen to do this. Although it is a small detail that is being adjusted here, it is a detail that actually makes a big difference to the group of drug users who find it difficult to inject themselves. So we would like to thank the Minister for actually taking the initiative on this amendment to the law. We think that's really fine. I should like to say from the SF that they also support the bill. I don't want to go into that part much more. However, I would like to comment on what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party mentioned up here from the platform. The way we see it, the drug intake rooms are an expression of what can be called a harmless reduction perspective that we have a society where among other things. Drug abuse is a condition. It would then be desirable not to do so, and I think that many people would want it, but from there to say that we should not accommodate and accommodate and organise as good a framework as possible for those who are caught up in drug abuse, I think it is simply too far to go. This bill is just another element in an attempt to make the damage as few as possible, given the fact that this problem actually exists. I think you can take a harmless reduction perspective in many areas of our society... drug abuse is an area, sex work is perhaps another area... where we offer some offers to the people who are in these situations, without at the same time requiring them to get out of their situation, because then we lose a lot of people on the floor. It is really difficult to force people who are drug addicts to leave drug abuse by saying that we will not help them in other areas. So I would really like us to think about this harmless reduction perspective in the social and health areas, so that we, as a society, can help citizens who are having a hard time, without it meaning that we do not also want to help them out of any abuse they may have. In other words, it was just a call for us to be able to take such a perspective in other areas of our health and social policy. However, as I said, the alternative supports it and the SF supports it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211134640	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211134648	Thank you. We in the Radical Left are proud to have been behind the drug intake rooms or fixer rooms, as most people call them. Because we believe that we must help those who need it. And I am glad that the Left seems to have become wiser as well. That's nice. In Copenhagen, there has been a small group of particularly vulnerable addicts who feel so bad that they are not physically able to spray themselves. It can, for example, be done. be because they shake a lot because of withdrawal. And when that situation arises, it has so far been the case that we have chosen to tighten up the rules, but that is to say without taking action. This has been justified by the fact that the risk involved is particularly high if people are left to walk outside the drug intake room. And as the City of Copenhagen says, it is contrary to the purpose of the drug intake rooms to reject those who need assisted drug intake. But with this law we can make it legal, so that the City of Copenhagen is no longer in a mess, and we in the Radical Left think that is good. For me, there has been some thought as to whether we should go further than what the Minister is suggesting. At first glance, I was a little concerned that the staff in the fixerums should not assist, because I think it is probably the most qualified people who are present. In the draft law, the Government justifies the bill with the following, and I quote: "It would thus be professionally and ethically problematic if staff in an offer run by a municipality or under operating agreement with a municipality had to inject a drug, the details and effects of which are unknown. I think that is an important argument, and that is why I am also on the line that is being taken here. But I think we should follow it, and if there is a demand from the City of Copenhagen or anyone else, in relation to the fact that staff also need the authority to do so, then I am prepared to consider it a second time. But Radicals are happy to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211134913	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to Mrs Mette Abildgaard as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211134920	Thank you. Sometimes we make legislation here in the Folketing, which concerns a lot of people and makes a big difference to them; sometimes it is the slightly smaller groups, as in this case it is not, because to a large extent it is necessarily many people that are involved, but nevertheless it is legislation that will make a big difference to the people involved. I think Mrs Jane Heitmann has rightly said that a society must be measured by how we treat the most socially vulnerable. I sometimes wish that we could spread that thinking more into our work here in the Folketing. There's a lot we do for everyone per. automatics, services we provide to everyone per. automatics, rather than targeting it to those who are most in need. I have to admit that we too, on the conservative side, have had a lot of talk and discussions about these fixerums, as they are called in daily speech. There may be some fundamental concerns as to whether it is somewhere a knee fall for a problem, whether it is a way to dance around the hot porridge without really taking care of the problem. We would always think that the best thing would be to get these people out of their abuse, but I know that everyone in here is in complete agreement with me on that. And that is why we also believe that much more should be done in order to offer such immediate treatment if we come and approach as an addict. I know that my municipal colleague in the City of Copenhagen has suggested that and I believe that you have actually been implemented, that you are entitled to a treatment offer rather quickly when you come and say: Now I am ready. Conversely, we've also seen the evaluation that's been made of these drug intake rooms. And it is good experience that they have to be said, both for the users who are socially at risk, but also for the citizens who live in societies that have been marked in the past by precisely these needles in the sandbox, etc., which are of course not in anyone's interest either. We in the Conservative Parliamentary Group agree to back this bill because it is an outstretched hand for some of the groups that have the most difficulty and are themselves too influenced to be responsible for their own injection. We are very pleased with the drive that has been made in relation to health professionals. We share the view that there will be such ethical and moral issues that they will have to answer for this injection. With those comments, the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211135158	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211135203	The rapporteur can probably guess what I am going to ask. It is the same question as the one addressed to the rapporteur of the Left. Now that the Conservative People's Party welcomes this change, does it indicate that such a general change has also been made to the idea of drug intake spaces?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211135221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211135222	I hope that Mrs Stine Brix will not regard this as such a political speech but, to be perfectly honest, I cannot give Mrs Stine Brix a clear answer. And that is because we are discussing this right now in the Conservative Parliamentary Group. We haven't been to these fixerums in the past... that's quite right. We have also become a new parliamentary group, which regularly has many debates on things that have previously been clearly held. We are looking at the evaluation and by listening a little bit to the experiences that are around. However, we certainly recognise that the evaluation that has been made shows that it is a useful tool. So I regret that I cannot give a very clear yes or no, but I can say that we are in a process where we are getting ready for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211135302	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211135304	Well, I fully respect that, and then I just want to look forward to hearing what the Conservative People's Party is getting to know. In any case, I would like to acknowledge for the time being that we support this process and also have a pragmatic approach to it and look at what the effect is of drug intake spaces. I think that is very positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211135320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211135321	Thank you. As Mrs Jane Heitmann mentioned earlier, there is nothing religious about this either. We are relatively pragmatic, but we have some concerns about the fact that this should never be a substitute for the fact that we should also make an offer that we can get out of it. But I also know that there are studies which indicate that, if you are in a controlled abuse, you may be better able to get there. So we're looking at pluses and minuses.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211135346	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the next to speak is the Minister for Health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211135358	Thank you. And thank you for the debate and for the rapporteurs' comments on the draft law, which aims to create a legal framework for assisted drug consumption in drug consumption rooms. I am listening to the fact that there is a very, very broad majority in the Danish Parliament, probably all parties except the Danish People's Party, which support the bill, and I would very much like to sign for that. I listened to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party warning that a number of written questions would be put, which I would, of course, very much like to answer in the further reading of the committee. And then I listened to the fact that there was also one oral question in the rapporteur's speech which related to the fact that it is up to the municipalities to be able to lay down more specific rules as to who has to assist. The question was asked whether this does not mean that we in the Danish Parliament actually do not have the responsibility. I really think the answer is: no, it is quite the opposite. After all, it is a question of giving responsibility to those who are closest to the citizens we are talking about here and thus also having local knowledge of, among other things. patterns of abuse, etc. This is also the reason why it is now up to the individual municipality to decide whether there should be a drug intake room at all in the individual municipality. Nor have I ever heard the Danish People's Party suggest that we should require all of the 98 municipalities in the country to establish drug intake rooms. In the same way, we also propose that it is the municipalities themselves which have actively decided that they want to establish a drug intake room which must also decide whether they believe that access to assisted drug intake in the rooms should be available. Then there are details about e.g. opening hours, capacity, facilities, staff and rules of procedure etc., which are also up to the individual municipality. In general terms, it can be said that there is a relatively broad framework for how individual municipalities can organise their activities. I think this is a very good and sensible starting point in relation to the municipalities. However, I look forward to the further examination of the legislative proposal by the committee and, of course, make myself available to answer questions relating to the work of the committee we are now setting in motion. But thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211135632	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211135649	The debate is open. The Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate is given the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211135722	Thank you to the President and thank you to the Liberal Alliance and the alternative for this proposal. The parties' proposals set out to work to ensure the strongest possible competition in the state supply of offshore wind farms and require the government to establish an independent council of experts and to apply new pre-qualification criteria to ensure participation of public projects. I would like to begin by saying that I welcome the alternative and the interest of the Liberal Alliance in this area. Ensuring increased competition in the supply of offshore wind turbines is a subject that is constantly being looked at in the government, and therefore I also welcome the proposal. No one in this Chamber can be against the actual wording of the proposal. Who does not want to ensure as strong a competition as possible in the Danish supply of offshore wind farms? The government is determined by the conviction that the more bidders, the better. However, we must not compromise on the tender criteria in order to pre-qualify companies that are not solid enough. The government is open to looking at possible future financing options. However, there is reason to be sceptical and concerned about the impact on competition if the concrete recommendations described in the comments to the proposal are implemented. Firstly, it is proposed to supplement the Danish Energy Agency with an independent council of economists, energy planners and lawyers from universities to help ensure as much value as possible and the strongest possible competition in the tenders. I do not see the immediate need to establish such a council. For the fact is that the offer of Horns Rev 3 led to a historic price drop and a very low price of 77 cents; that the bidders have subsequently praised both the tender framework and the efforts of the Danish Energy Agency; that to the ongoing offer of Krieger's Flak, no less than seven companies have prequalified a record in Danish wind history; that three companies are prequalified for the supply of coastal parks where there is a relatively low price ceiling. All these results have not come about by chance, but are a culmination of several years of work, a work that reflects the recommendations of the 2012 Energy Agreement, which committed the Danish Energy Agency to a thorough preparation and marketing of tenders through dialogue with the market and advice from leading consultants and the Chamber Attorney. In particular, the extensive dialogue with anyone who could have an interest in and opportunity to build the project has been rewarding. I myself am convinced that the input of those who sit close to the market is more important for a good result than having a panel of university professors in it. I hope that we can all agree that the visible and significant results confirm, on the one hand, that the preparations for the tenders have been successful, on the other hand, that the Danish tender model works and, on the other hand, that we have received both sharp prices and fierce competition as a consequence. Secondly, the proposal goes into detail with particular requests for pre-qualification criteria in the tenders. It is proposed to supplement pre-qualification criteria for a particular turnover with a requirement to deposit a large amount of cash billions when a company is to be pre-qualified to participate in tenders. The intention is to allow companies to participate without turnover if they can show that they have sufficient liquidity. On the other hand, investors should not be jointly and severally liable for the obligations in the concession. It is also proposed that the Danish Energy Agency should be obliged to ensure that at least five tenderers are pre-qualified. If necessary, the pre-qualification criteria must be adapted in a negotiation with the applicants. I disagree with both proposals. In general, I do not think that today we have problems with competition in Denmark. As mentioned at the outset, in connection with our latest pre-qualification for the supply of Krieger's Flak, no fewer than seven companies were pre-qualified. The Horns Rev 3 offer also showed that even with four pre-qualified it is possible to land a low price as long as the companies are just hungry. In any case, an obligation to always ensure five pre-qualified people is not a good solution. This will increase the risk that we will unnecessarily lower the requirements for tenderers and pre-qualify companies that are not solid enough. Competition will be strong if we ensure a good framework in the political agreements and competent procurement processes. As far as the proposal to apply new pre-qualification criteria is concerned, I do not wish to deny that it will be possible to attract certain project companies through landfill requirements. On the other hand, it is certain that, if the requirement for joint liability is abolished for these project companies, the state will be left with risks which we will not have covered anywhere but with the Danish taxpayers. Solidary liability is a common model in concession contracts where the State does not own, operate or assume any risk to the installation during its lifetime. It is a way of ensuring that the company that the State grants the concession is sure that the funding will last even if it does not go as expected. This is where the consortium itself has to take on the risk and not leave it to the taxpayers in the end. In general, it is my opinion that pre-qualification through key figures such as high turnover and solidarity in combination with solidarity liability for all investors is an effective and well-tested method to ensure that only companies that can actually build and operate offshore wind farms the size of power plants are allowed to participate. Having said that, I will not deny that in future tenders the Danish Energy Agency will have to develop the tender model. New sources of funding and new players are constantly coming in, and it may be attractive to adapt the criteria to attract the new players as long as we can ensure the proper risk sharing. However, I do not think we should stick to them in this Chamber, because we all know that new criteria will be needed if or when new tenders are to be launched in the future. I think we can agree that it is always a bad idea to lay down tender criteria for several years before new tenders are actually launched. Thirdly, as a common thread through the proposal, the desire to involve Danes more directly in investment in new offshore wind farms. The proposers specifically point out that the existing involvement of the local population in the supply of the so-called coastal parks is insufficient. I couldn't disagree more. Purchasing rights in coastal supply which give an obligation to offer a minimum of 20 per cent. of the shares for sale by local citizens, providing good and protected access to funds into the projects without taking unnecessary risks during the construction, operation or decommissioning phase. Professional companies develop in the projects and provide sensible protection, while citizens are given the opportunity to make money without risking going from house to home. Finally, let me also remind the proposers that the Danes are already co-owners of a large part of the Danish parks through the Danish pension companies, which were among the first to invest in offshore wind farms in Denmark and then in the rest of Europe. At the same time, we see increased interest from municipal companies such as the United Kingdom. HOFOR, which is already prequalified to participate in two of three of the tenders under the Energy Agreement. In short, the government is not opposed to the Danes owning the projects that they themselves contribute to financing through public aid schemes. However, it is crucial that Danish citizens are not exposed to unnecessary risk and that ownership takes place in a secure and professional framework. For these reasons, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211140642	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211140647	Thank you. After all, I think it is important to focus a great deal on the supply frameworks that exist and to adjust them, also on the basis of what kind of investor groups there are. There I agree with the Minister that there is a certain movement, in and with pension funds and municipalities also want to be actors in this industry. I would like to ask the Minister whether we could not now go along with the idea that in future tenders we should have made it even more simple to be an investor. I am well aware that it will only be after 2020, after the next energy policy conciliation, but it could be that already in the tenders under way, whether the coastal mills and Kriegers Flak could make it even more flexible and could work to reduce the uncertainties, so that those who have to bid, including the consortia pre-qualified for the coastal mills, could minimise the uncertainties that exist. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he is aware that there is some dialogue about the uncertainties of the coastal mills.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211140752	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211140754	Thank you for the question. How we do this right in the future is something I would like to discuss in the conciliation circle and also with the Enhedslisten. At the same time, however, when we reduce the uncertainty, there is a risk that the price per unit of account will be reduced. kilowatt-hours rise. So it is quite important to strike a reasonable balance between looking at the uncertainties and at the same time ensuring that we also get the lowest possible price in the supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211140822	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211140824	That is also why it is not good if the joint liability in a project is far too long, so it gives an uncertainty. Nor is it good if it is the case that there is no clarity in advance about how to finance the removal costs, and there are some uncertainties about this. So I think there is good reason to dive into the supply we have with the coastal mills and with Krieger's Flak, and see if it can be done even better, because it will help to lower the price that is offered.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211140854	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211140855	That is something we are continuously following up on. It is clear that there is a process around the coastal mills which ends on 4 April, where the offers must be in or where the decision falls. However, it is clear that we have an ongoing discussion and will also have it in the conciliation circle on the criteria to be set for future tenders.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211140915	Thank you. There is also a brief comment from Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211140919	Thank you. This is a bit complicated. One of the things I would like to hear from the Minister is the turnover requirement that exists today, which means, of course, that a company that wants to bid must be able to provide proof that it has had a certain turnover. I hear in the financial world that it is not a requirement that would normally be made, because a high turnover in itself is not a guarantee of something you can have shell companies trading with each other without there really being any certainty in that figure. That is why we would like some other figures to be added, so that it is not only large companies that can bid because they have already had a turnover, but also people-owned constellations formed to bid on these tasks can bid as owners. So I would like to ask the Minister: is it not true that the turnover requirement itself does not provide much certainty?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211141023	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211141024	That is certainly true. However, the crucial thing for the government is that when we have these tenders, we also have a guarantee for the economy in them, that we do not suddenly, as I said in my opening speech, have a big financial bill because the companies that have been given a task are not able to solve it or are not strong enough. I have to say that in a context such as this I have a lot of confidence in the officials who advise us on this issue. For me, it is absolutely crucial that we do not suddenly find ourselves in a situation where there is a coastal wind turbine project, a offshore wind turbine project or something that falls apart, because the economy of the companies that have to bid for the task is not strong enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211141103	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211141104	Yeah, but it's all about ownership. Building the park itself afterwards and running it will typically be something you have contractors over. In other words, the park itself is in the same hands, if you may say so. So the safety of the park is basically the same when it is built. And when we talk about a landfill requirement, I would say that this is a well-known way of investing, which is typically about a bank going in and investing in the size of a wind farm. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211141145	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211141146	We in the government are concerned that there is maximum security when investing in these parks; that we ensure that those who invest in the parks, in their construction and in their ownership afterwards are as well upholstered as possible so that the state and thus the Danish taxpayers take as little financial risk as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211141205	Thank you, Minister. This brings us to the rapporteur's line, and the first is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211141227	Thank you. On the socialist side, we would very much like to sign this resolution, and we would also like to discuss the popular anchoring and ownership of offshore wind turbines and how best to ensure this. We believe that this is an important priority when renewable energy is developed for common tax dollars. Therefore, we are also very open to looking at whether it can be done even better than today, when we are offering 20%. of the ownership rights of local citizens. At the same time, it actually seems to us that the current tender model has been relatively successful. It has given more reasonable prices, and we probably do not quite share the view of the Liberal Alliance that there is no competition. We have also heard from the platform that, for example, there is one. At Kriegers Flak had been seven offers. But, as I said, we'd like to take a look at this with the popular anchoring. It's kind of an intention we share. At the same time, we are also listening when the government and the Minister say today that the proposed model in this motion for a resolution gives rise to some concerns and to greater risks. We want to maintain that there is a guarantee that we will get the lowest possible price, while at the same time the wind farms will be realised and that we will avoid, for example, the bill. ends up with taxpayers. We are therefore not convinced that today's proposal has found the stones of the show, so our approach is to go to committee work with a mission to drill out some of these uncertainties and have the opportunities for more popular ownership debated. Because we really want to be a part of that. This debate also gives us the opportunity to get started soon on the political debate on the plans for the green transition after 2020. I also noticed that the Minister spoke about the possibility of adapting the tender model, so that is something that we will also take into account in the work of the committee. I have promised to welcome from the SF, which unfortunately could not be here today, and to say that they do not support this resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211141446	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211141448	Thank you. Thank you for your contribution. I just want to hear the rapporteur very briefly whether the rapporteur thinks that it is a good competition when we set up hundreds of wind turbines and there really is only one bid for the projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211141506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211141508	I am well aware that there may not be exactly the same view of competition in the Liberal Alliance as we have in the Social Democratic Party. But what lies in the tender model that we have today is that we are actually trying to get a lot more on the offer so that we get the lowest possible price. That is also why I mentioned that we have actually seen that it is some of the things that have succeeded. But we are also not in line with some of the tenders that are now here, so perhaps it would be a little more timely to look at the competitive part of it when we get on the other side of it and have to make an evaluation of how those tenders have gone. But we think it has gone relatively well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211141542	Then there's no one else on this list. We move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211141555	I would like, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, to sign the motion for a resolution here. As I read it, the intention of the proposers is that we should set up the future offshore wind farms in the cheapest way possible, and that is an intention which we in the Danish People's Party fully share. I would like to say to the specific proposal that it is, after all, very detailed in many terms and concepts, which it can be difficult to understand with a few days of preparation the consequences of. So I should not be able to say whether the proposers have just found the right cut with the proposal here, but, as I have said, we in the Danish People's Party would like to sign off on addressing an issue that is certainly relevant and that we in the Danish People's Party also want to see that we find the optimal solution. Specifically, we have previously had some supply of offshore wind farms in Denmark, and compared to the previous tender, where we landed at a price of DKK 1. and 5 øre per. The kilowatt-hour, with the latest, has reached a kilowatt-hour price of 77 cents, and that is, of course, a reduction that is to be taken and felt. It also tells me that it is not quite wrong with the way we are doing it at the moment, in other words that there is a certain amount of competition which causes the price to drop significantly. Of course, it may also be due to technology developments. Of course, the technology you use is also constantly evolving and, hopefully, is also becoming cheaper. So I don't think it's quite wrong with the way we do it today. But that does not mean that things cannot be improved, and I see the resolution here as an attempt to do so. I would say that we in the Danish People's Party do not support the resolution here. We also believe that this is an area within the framework of the energy conciliation that we have concluded with all parties in the Folketing other than the proposers'. So I think it is in this circle that it should be done in the first place if the Danish People's Party is to contribute to a change in the area. So we cannot support the motion for a resolution, although in a positive spirit we will enter into the committee's work on the motion for a resolution, because we certainly believe that there are good intentions in what we share. So that is the position of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211141838	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211141847	Thank you for that, President. In considering the alternative and the Liberal Alliance's motion for a resolution here, B 49, on strengthening competition and financial security in the public supply of offshore wind turbines, the Left votes against the proposal. However, we would like to thank you for a constructive contribution to an otherwise very important debate in this area. First of all, I would like to say that we in the Left agree with the very intention behind the motion for a resolution that we should therefore work towards maximum competition and thus the lowest possible electricity price for consumers. We certainly share the view that the more biders there are in the supply of offshore wind turbines, the better it is, of course. Having said that, we believe that it is important not to create the tender criteria in such a way that companies that are basically not solid enough win the supply. This resolution proposes, among other things, that five pre-qualified tenderers should always be guaranteed. That is a bad idea for the Left, because it may mean that you end up in situations where we are forced to pre-qualify tenderers who are ultimately not solid enough. At the same time, when it is proposed that the requirement for joint liability for project creations be abolished, it may result in situations where the State is faced with risks that there is no one other than the taxpayer to cover. We do not think that is fair. The Left also believes that the proposal to set up a special committee of experts to ensure strong competition is unnecessary. Indeed, the reality is that we are now seeing more competition in the tenders than we have done in the past. And we have also seen that the offers have led to historic price reductions. These are the results of the work that has been done since the Energy Agreement in 2012 to ensure increased competition, and the Left believes that today, when we see low prices and fierce competition, there is good reason to be satisfied with the way the tenders have gone. At the same time, we in the Left believe that those close to the market know better than a bunch of university professors how to achieve the best results. The resources can, we believe, be used better than to set up such expert councils, and on this basis the Left does not wish to vote in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211142138	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur on the list is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211142149	Thank you. The unitary list supports the intentions of the motion for a resolution here. We have been able to see a development where we had the Anholt mills and where it ended up with only one bider. It was a bad situation that, when you make a tender, there is only one tender. But there were also those who felt that they had been rejected on unfair terms. This proposal can only have a consequence after the next energy conciliation, that is. the energy reconciliation that we will hopefully be able to make in 2017 and which will apply from 2020. And there, in the Enhedslisten, we would very much like to work to ensure that we continue to get some supply both at coastal mills and at offshore wind farms. We need the whole palette in the green and sustainable transition when we have to reach 100% renewable energy. We must have agricultural mills, we must have coastal mills, and we must also continue to have some offshore wind turbines where the mills are far out at sea. The aim of ensuring competition, which is the intention of the proposal, is, of course, a good thing, but at the same time it is also good in parallel with working for greater popular participation in projects. It is a bit difficult if you keep an offer of 200 MW offshore wind turbines and you might have a price over 4-5 billion. kr., so to have the popular commitment in such a project, and you might be standing in front of 10 per cent if you're going to make a contract for the delivery of a wind farm. of the amount when signing the contract with the supplier. So you have something where you have to collect a lot of capital right from the start, and that's why it has something to say, of course, what kind of processes you have around these invitations to tender; what kind of timetables there are; whether you have some timetables that make it possible, like, that there are more players who can get on the ground. Then there's this greater popular participation. Well, if you look at what is of trend, then there are more municipalities that offer themselves. HOFOR is the largest player at the moment, but there are a number of municipalities in the country that have bought wind turbines as part of their efforts to become CO2 We see pension funds moving their investments from black investments to sustainable investments. PKA has just announced that they are again investing in wind turbines. It's in England. We see that there are players who would like to invest both for environmental and ethical reasons, but also because in this way it provides the best return on capital. We see energy companies around the country, which prioritise investment directly in renewable energy instead of having their values lying in shares and bonds, and we sometimes see some initiatives where there are windmill lows that raise capital. But it's hard. We saw it in connection with the Nissum Bredning process, where, in the course of a week, they had pre-signed a great many shares, but it is not a general trend if you look beyond other projects that have been in process when you make windmill lows, which have to raise a lot of capital. So we have a challenge. If you just had to do as in the old days, when it was the nearest neighbours to a windmill that made a windmill low, then you raised the necessary capital, and then you got the project up. It can't be done with these billion-dollar projects. That is why there is a challenge to work on how to deliver some tenders where we can achieve greater popular anchoring. Therefore, it may seem somewhat unreasonable to impose a turnover requirement on those who need to be pre-qualified. I think that it is enough if some of those who help to be pre-qualified have a large capital, and that is to say, if you have a windmill low with which you have collected money, or if you have a pension fund that has the money, but which may not be considered as having a large turnover, then I think it is something that could do well for the capital requirement to be met in a tender. So I think there is reason to look at whether what has been done so far cannot be done better. And I was also listening to the Minister being open to us having such a process in which we are doing even better. So it is important that we also keep some supply where we look at these uncertainties in relation to, for example. the joint and several liability. If you are going to have cheap funding for something, it is always a disadvantage if there is a joint liability somewhere. It is an element of uncertainty unless it is very limited. There may also be an uncertainty about who it is that is going to plow down the wind farm sometime in the future. It should be possible to make some kind of deposit into an account and then secure it, regardless of whether the players who may be pre-qualified and construct the park should go bankrupt. There must be models to ensure that society does not end up with any expenditure in the future. So Enhedslisten is positive about the intentions of this proposal and we would like to discuss it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211142655	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211142708	Thank you for the floor. I have been allowed to replace our usual rapporteur in this area, who is also a co-author, but unfortunately could not be here today. Now that the Liberal Alliance is a co-sponsor of this resolution, it is not because we stamp out the energy policy that has taken place. It is simply because we can see that more competition is needed or, in reality, just competition in the wind turbine sector. There are, among other things. because it is very difficult to be considered as a provider. It simply makes demands which make it impossible for good and solid investors to be taken into account, while a few powerful companies have too easy to share the offers. We simply cannot understand that the general financing practice is not being followed in this area. For example: It is vitally important to turnover, even though it basically does not say anything about solidity. Many smaller players are therefore excluded from this and, as I have said, we can see that many of these tenders are actually reserved for the major players, just as it is indisputable that far too few offer the tasks, which, of course, is detrimental to the consumer's economy. It must be borne in mind that these are very large sums of money which we spend on subsidies for these projects, and at Anholt, which I believe has already been mentioned in the debate, we set up well over 100 mills and gave DONG 105 cents to produce electricity for the next 10-12 years, and that is surely to say that we can now buy electricity on the market for 15-20 cents. DONG, who was the only one who offered the assignment, rushed to sell a share to a pension fund quickly and stopped a billion-dollar check in the back pocket, and I think we can actually do a little better. As long as we continue with this great grant orgy, we simply have to make sure that there are always as many bidders on the field as possible when bidding on these major projects. Liberal Alliance also very much likes us to ensure local ownership and thus avoid foreign capital funds being able to foam the Danish cream and here I do not mean an agricultural product just because we are stupid enough to pay these 4-5 times the market price to produce electricity that, at least in part of the production period, you cannot use and therefore have to sell on the Nordic electricity exchange at spot price. It's, uh, it's, uh... it's, uh... it's, uh... it's, uh... it's, uh... it's, uh... it's, uh... it's, uh... Unfortunately, there is a lot of bad things that can be said about our subsidy regime, but now that we have moved on that path, we really do think that self-paining should not be greater than the maximum necessary, and we would therefore recommend with this resolution that we have a greater guarantee of real competition in this area. In the course of the debate, I find it rather disturbing to see that the Enhedslisten is in fact the only ones who have addressed the poor conditions of competition in this area, but I have noted, however, that several parties in the conciliation circle outside the Liberal Alliance will take this into the conciliation circle and discuss the issue. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211143051	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211143054	Thank you. Now it sounds as if there is no competition in this area, and so I would just like to ask the rapporteur: when you look at the recent tenders that have been made and so do not go back to the first and only project that has been referred to so far, does the rapporteur recognise that there is more competition than we have ever seen before?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211143119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211143120	Indeed, I would like to acknowledge that there are small steps in the right direction here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211143127	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211143131	Okay, that's small steps in the right direction. But there is, of course, a greater competition for these tenders than we have ever seen before. After all, the rapporteur is questioning some of what the Board of Appeal for Procurement has had to make an assessment of. It is an independent body whose decisions cannot therefore be brought before another administrative body, and they have dealt precisely with this turnover requirement, which the rapporteur is discussing. They have dealt with the matter and have come to the conclusion that there must be a turnover requirement of 4 billion. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Can the rapporteur tell us what the party thinks should be done, otherwise there is an independent body calling for this turnover?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211143220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211143222	As I also mentioned in my speech, I wish there was more focus on the soundness of those who offer the task. To the first, which the questioner mentioned, I would like to say that in reality, if you look at it as a whole, it is still the result of a relatively poor competitive situation in this area, and there is no one who knows how many will be able to take part in future projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211143247	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Emrah Tuncer of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211143306	Andreas Steenberg could not be here today, so I take B 49, B 51 and R 7 together with F 17 today. We have to admit that we were wondering about this proposal. The two parties are not included in the energy agreement, where we have picked up bids or are in the process of picking up bids for the wind turbines to be set in motion in the coming years. The proposal here will not alter the invitations to tender which are in progress over the next 4-5 years, but on the future of supply. In the Radical Left, we think it is quite natural to evaluate and learn from the experience of the tenders that are being made here. Furthermore, the tender process with Horns Rev 3 was excellent, and it will now be the EU's cheapest offshore wind farm. That is why we look forward to seeing the outcome of the invitations to tender at the coastal mills and Krieger's Flak. Of course, we need to learn from the experience of those tenders, but we do not see the need for us now to determine what the tendering procedure will be like in 2022 or 2025. Radical Left does not see the need for this legislation, but will encourage the government and the Danish Energy Agency to evaluate and learn from the experience of the tenders that will take place by 2020. After that, it is of course relevant to look at the procurement policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211143420	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211143434	Thank you. After all, there has been a good discussion of the more factual content of the proposal we are discussing here today. In fact, I would like to start by referring to two of my fellow rapporteurs, whom one might say is a little at the end of the political spectrum. On the one hand, Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, that he agreed with the aim of this proposal, namely to increase competition and ensure that there is always optimal competition: it is clear that we are interested in this as a nation, it is consumers' interest, it is in everyone's interest. If we want the green switch, and we want to do so, then we must also ensure that there is popular support for it. And if the price gets too high, it is clear that then popular support can start to waver. Therefore, it is important that we focus on the competition. Conversely, Mr. Mikkel Dencker among other things that it was a complex proposal and that it could be difficult to fully understand individual elements of it. I was actually pleased that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party had the courage to say so, because I personally felt the same way when I read the proposal. There are simply some elements in it where I find it difficult to understand exactly what the consequences they want and what the derived effects they want. That's probably why this kind of decision is best suited to a conciliation circle where you can work solidly with it and get a full account of the consequences the various elements will have. So I do not think I can stand by and say yes or no to the individual elements of what is in the motion for a resolution, but would actually just say that I think we should continue working on this in the energy conciliation circle, because we can all agree on the objective of maximising competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211143620	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211143641	I guess I had a feeling this was a complicated case. It is for me too, but I would like to draw it up in a slightly larger line, because that is, of course, why I have drafted this proposal and invited the Liberal Alliance into it. What this is about for the alternative is that we need to have much more of renewable energy. We are in the process of switching from fossil energy to renewable energy, and some of what gives you, what can be said, more positive reception in the population is when you can join in. The ownership of renewable energy projects is something that is very close to our heart in the Alternative, and we started developing this proposal on the basis of a request that if you want to create a constellation of a kind, be it a fund or another size that offers into wind farms, you will actually be slowed down by the fact that there is this rather curious turnover requirement in the case that is being talked about here, of 4 billion. kr. This means that you cannot create a constellation for the task. You can only be a company that has had activities ahead of you if you want to offer this assignment. And that's where we talk about ownership alone. We are not talking about building the park itself or operating it, for that is something that the same contractors typically want to do, regardless of how ownership is linked. So what interests us is opening up so that popular ownership can grow in this context. In other words, we have listened to Wind People, who have also been in front of the Energy Committee. They have been in contact with the financial sector, which was actually wondering about this turnover requirement. Because it doesn't in itself provide any certainty. You can have shell companies that trade with each other, and that gives the impression that there is a large turnover here, but it does not guarantee anything at all. And then it is, of course, that the financial sector has told us that there may be other things that can be done instead, and they are then mentioned in the proposal. I am not an expert on funding myself, and that is also why we are proposing that experts be consulted on a kind of advice that helps us make the right type of procurement, where also popular ownership constellations can go in and offer this type of assignment. And what we're gonna get out of it on top of that is that we're gonna have a freer competition because more people can join in. I know we have had a good competitive situation on some tenders and a worse competitive situation on others. This is gonna come on top of it and give us even better competition if we open up more bidding. I would just like to say to this that we are demanding five bidders, that this is not how we put it. It is that we aim to have five bidders on a task. That is common sense, as the audit firms say. I think it was Deloitte who had done a study that showed that you typically get the best competition with 6-10 bidders on assignments. Here we are proposing just five as something we aim to achieve. Then I would like to say that this non-course financing, such as that we have here. suggesting is common abroad. There is no question of something going downstairs and that all the money or project is lost, because that is a classic way of doing it. You put it at 10%. the financing, as I understand it, and the banks would like to go in and have the opportunity to take over the project, because wind turbine projects are known to be a good business. So it is not a question of there being a greater risk in choosing the models that we point to in the proposal. But I have heard that almost the whole House has been interested in this proposal and I look forward to having it dealt with in detail in committee and see if we can find a way of getting closer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211144123	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211144141	I give the floor to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211144209	Thank you, President, and thank you to the Enhedslisten for the proposal. The Enhedslisten's proposal suggests that the government on behalf of Denmark should support a moratorium on stopping new coal mines and expanding existing coal mines. The moratorium has been launched by Anote Tong, president of the Republic of Kiribati, an island state located in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. First of all, I have great sympathy for President Tong's initiative and leadership on the climate agenda. Kiribati and similar island states are particularly vulnerable to climate change. Therefore, Denmark has also supported these archipelagos in relation to development and climate initiatives. I also recognise that the expansion of coal-based electricity and energy production should be minimised in order to avoid the long-standing locking of a high CO2 produced energy unit. However, the government does not regard the moratorium, which is a political call for a ban on increasing the supply of coal, as an effective contribution to a solution to the climate challenge. Firstly, a ban is not realistic. It is decoupled from the reality of energy policy. The government is in line with, among other things. The International Energy Agency, the IEA, believes that coal will continue to form part of the global energy mix in the foreseeable future, and especially in the growing developing economies. Today is well over 40%. of the world's electricity production and 29 per cent of the world's electricity production. of the world's energy production based on coal. The increase in coal consumption may flatten China by 2020, but other countries in Asia, not least India, are expected to continue to drive an increase in demand in the coming years. Secondly, it is not credible that Denmark, with support for the moratorium, should become the first country to advocate a ban. For a number of years to come, we will continue to use coal in our own energy production in Denmark despite an ongoing ambitious green transition. Although coal in a climate context is a greater sinner than oil and gas, we will continue to search and extract new fossil fuels in the North Sea. Thirdly, it is both more realistic and more effective to influence the demand for coal than to influence supply. If we have the right and effective price for carbon, it will be attractive to invest in coal mines and coal-based energy production. Alternative solutions such as increased energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources will thus become more attractive compared to the use of coal. The coal market is already crowded, and it will only get worse. The government is therefore pursuing an internationally more realistic approach where we work with demand and with the use of coal in the most sustainable way. We do, among other things. by politically and concretely supporting the international reform work in re-setting and phasing out fossil fuel subsidies, including support for energy produced using coal, which also contributes to reducing coal demand. We do this by demanding that commercial export credits be given only to the absolutely most efficient coal plants and only where the possibility of using more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly alternatives is not available. We are doing this by advising, in our bilateral cooperation with a number of major developing economies, on the effective use of coal-based energy production, such as we. know it from high-efficiency cogeneration use at home. And we do so by promoting energy-efficient solutions and developing and integrating more renewable energy in our direct bilateral cooperation with a number of major developing economies. The Danish State does not own, operate or invest directly in coal mines. The government believes that Denmark's climate profile in relation to coal use includes the ambitious goal that we should be independent of fossil fuels by 2050, so Denmark can produce enough renewable energy to cover the total Danish energy consumption in 2050. This ambitious line is both well known and recognised internationally. In addition, Denmark's climate profile also includes the leading technological strength positions in high-efficiency and climate-friendly coal use, which Denmark is home to. They secure exports and jobs in Denmark for the benefit of the environment and the climate around the world. The world's energy and coal consumption seems to increase in the coming years. We must therefore seek to minimise the demand for coal by promoting more efficient and renewable energy solutions. We do this at home by showing that we can cover our consumption with renewable energy, and it works internationally on several fronts, most directly through bilateral energy cooperation with a number of the largest developing economies. This is an expression of a realistic, effective and ambitious approach based on the specific international conditions. I have sympathy for Kiribati's moratorium, but joining the moratorium is not the way forward, either for Denmark or in relation to coal and the global climate challenge. At the moment, I am not aware of any other countries other than a few island states in the Pacific which will support Kiribati's moratorium on new coal mines and the expansion of existing ones. There is therefore no political momentum to provide or back up. So the government does not want to support B 51 and proposes that it be rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211144834	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211144839	Thank you very much. Thank you for the Minister's speech. If we look at the figures from the International Energy Agency, which the Minister also mentions, and compare them with the reductions in global greenhouse gas emissions that are necessary if we are to meet the 2-degree objective, then it is clear that there is no room for new coal mines. So in a world where we must keep to the goal that we all stood in Paris and applauded, went home and praised in high notes, toasted and excited, one has to support an initiative like this. Otherwise, it is pure hypocrisy. So I would like to ask the Minister to confirm that if we are to achieve the 2-degree objective and, above all, if we are to achieve what was actually sharpened up in Paris, that is to say that we must try to keep it below the 2 degrees, then we must stop building new coal mines, which is what this resolution is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211144945	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211144947	Thank you for the question. So this doesn't happen overnight. For Denmark, it is absolutely crucial that we use coal as efficiently and with as low an environmental impact as possible, and we have said that in the world as well. I have recently been to China and made an agreement with the Chinese Minister for Energy that Denmark should contribute with technical solutions, technological solutions, and environmental solutions etc. in order to ensure that coal power plants in China are operated as efficiently as possible, and I believe that is the way forward. It is a question of ensuring that coal power, which is not phased out overnight, is as efficient and with as low an environmental impact as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211145024	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211145026	There is nothing in this resolution about doing anything overnight. I can inform the Minister that large existing coal mines are already under way, and this is about stopping the creation of new coal mines. We use the existing ones, because the Minister is right that we cannot stop burning coal tomorrow. But right now there are huge new coal projects under way, among others. in Australia. We are talking about giant coal mines that have been planned to be built. If they are listed and if they are initiated, the climate has no chance, and the 2-degree objective is very, very far away.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211145109	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211145109-2	Thank you for the question. It is not realistic to phase out coal overnight, and that is also why the government is focusing on the fact that in relation to the coal used in the world, we are contributing everything we can at all with Danish technology. Danish coal power plants are among the most efficient in the world, and if we could just get the coal power plants built in China and India and elsewhere to use the Danish technology, then I think there was much that was solved, and then there was also much that was solved in relation to ensuring that we did not reach a temperature increase of 2 degrees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211145140	Thank you very much to the Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line and the first is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211145201	Thank you. I myself attended last year's climate summit in Paris, where Kiribati's President Tong was working on this matter and on slowing down new coal mines, and I do not think there is any doubt that the Enhedslisten's proposals are also sympathetic. The small island states in the Pacific are in a very vulnerable position if the sea level in the oceans rises, and that is why the Social Democrats also want us to continue to set our green ambition very high. We want a Denmark that is fossil-free in 2050 and we want the rest of the world to be on the wagon. The world needs to see the possibilities of the green transition, so that the transition can really get into gear, and that was among other things. also some of what we were working on when we were in Paris. That is why we also wanted a close alliance with the island states under COP 21 to push for an ambitious global climate target and to find common solutions, and that is also how we believe that the best way to reduce climate change is to find a way. So it is vital for us that we find a common foothold that can help to reduce the demand for fossil fuels. That is, in fact, the key and what we must continue to work for internationally and, of course, also through close EU cooperation, just as we must work for the absence of subsidies and subsidies for the extraction of coal and other fossil fuels that are straining the climate, but, as the Minister also mentioned, we are promoting technology that is as climate-friendly as possible. We also have something to offer from the Danish side here, just as it also applies to ourselves at home that we continue to use coal. We do not support the proposal because we believe that the fight for the green transition must be fought on the tracks I have mentioned here and where it is already under way. But we want to work together internationally, and in this way we also believe that we can reduce the demand for fossil fuels so that coal mines can eventually be destroyed. We fully agree with Enhedslisten that coal is not the future. Therefore, at the very last moment, I would also like to use the opportunity to say here from the platform that we also believe that the government should crunch its shoes a little and throw itself into the climate struggle rather than cutting down on the green, as we have seen them doing, while, on the Danish side, the Danish side is trying to get the rest of the world to do the opposite. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211145434	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211145439	Thank you. I think it is sympathetic that the rapporteur feels sympathy with Kiribati and with their cause. They are the ones who have started it, and they are the ones who are hit the hardest by climate change. But this isn't just about having sympathy with an island. This is about taking seriously the objective agreed by the whole world in Paris and not just paying tribute to it when it is a free round, but actually also letting it be reflected in one's practical policy. Because we will not succeed in achieving these objectives unless we immediately stop building new coal mines. 80% of the known fossil fuel stocks shall remain in the ground. In other words, we can use the coal mines we already have, but we must not have new coal mines. So when the Socialists advocate joint initiatives, I do not understand that this is not a joint initiative, which the Socialists will also support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211145535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211145537	I would rather not have shot in the shoes that the Socialists just talk when it comes to the green transition. In fact, we have been one of the parties which, historically, has also been at the forefront when it comes to not just talking about it, but actually delivering the action that needs to be taken so that we too are very far ahead today. We also saw in Paris that people come to Denmark and ask how we have been able to cope. It is because we have actually had action behind the words. However, one may well disagree as parties, in relation to what is then the best way forward, in terms of ensuring that we limit climate change. There I tried to mention some of the roads we think are the roads to follow. It acts among other things. to reduce demand. There we believe that we must find common ground, just as we do not believe that it is necessarily equal to coal mines. It's kind of wider than that. It is broader, we intend to try to limit climate change. That is why we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211145632	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211145634	The problem is that it is unsustainable to focus only on demand. We also need to focus on supply, because we are on a burning platform and we have so little time to ensure effective reductions in global greenhouse gas emissions. It's not like we don't know what it's gonna take. We know quite clearly that we must achieve the 2-degree objective, and in particular the 11⁄2 degree objective, which we agreed in Paris, we must not have new coal mines. There are now some countries that have taken the initiative and have asked whether we want to be part of a global moratorium, a global agreement that we stop new coal mines in respect of the Paris agreement. I really wish the Socialists would be in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211145716	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211145718	It is also a good thing that the rapporteur feels that way, but we are only standing somewhere else, and it is not the case that many countries support this initiative either. We therefore believe that we must stand with those with whom we are in the European Union and that together we must push for some of what we know also makes a concrete difference in relation to precisely reducing demand. So that's what we're gonna do. I also concluded by saying that we are, in fact, very concerned that Denmark is getting more into the shoes in this area, because we think it is very unfortunate and, as such, a little despairing that the government is cutting back.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211145756	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211145808	I will begin by revealing that the Danish People's Party does not support the resolution and we intend to vote against it if it comes to second reading. I have to say, as the Minister also said in his introduction, that we see it as such that coal, and for that matter other fossil fuels, will be included in Denmark's and also in the rest of the world's energy supply for many decades to come, and that is why we do not think it makes much sense to stop opening up new coal mines or to expand existing coal mines, in that these mines will continue to provide the world with energy for many years to come. We regard it mostly as a symbolic act that is being proposed here, which is therefore of no practical significance as long as fossil fuels are part of our energy supply, and, as I said, they are going to be doing so for many years to come. I would say that when you propose this stop for the opening of new coal mines or the expansion of existing ones, you could also just say that coal mines have to be closed. This could also be suggested, or it could be proposed, to shut down the extraction of oil and gas. It's also an idea, it's a few steps further along the same path. Apart from the fact that it would remove part of our energy supply, it would also knock the bottom out of the Danish Treasury, so it is a path that we do not want to take the first or the next step. So in those words I just have to say, and it is probably not so surprising that the Danish People's Party does not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211145948	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211145954	Does the Danish People's Party support the global climate agreement that we should strive to keep global temperature increases a bit below 2 degrees?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150005	I would say that we are actually delighted that this climate agreement came into being in Paris two months ago. And there are several reasons for this. One important reason is that for many years we have actually been upset that Denmark and a small number of other mainly European countries have gone alone in the climate field and have taken a lot of initiatives that have been expensive without others having done the same. But with the climate agreement in Paris, it has become the case that all countries are included in this agreement and everyone is doing something. Not the same thing, because it happens on the basis of different assumptions, but everyone does something and takes on a financial burden. And we are actually very pleased that there is some solidarity in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150057	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150059	It is absolutely true that Denmark has been a green pioneer country and created thousands of jobs in that account. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur recognises that if we are to achieve the two-degree target, then the figures that lie both from Carbon Tracker and from the International Energy Agency should not be built new coal mines in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150123	I do not think that it is a precondition for achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement that new coal mines should not be opened up. What the Paris Agreement is about, as I see it, is that all countries are committed to achieving certain objectives in terms of reducing CO2 on CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150149	Thank you. There is also a brief comment from Mr. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150154	I get a little mystified by what the Danish People's Party says, and I just want to hear very briefly: Does the Danish People's Party view global warming as a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150204	We regard climate change as a problem, whether it is man-made or created through natural processes. There have been many climate change in the course of history, which is certainly not attributable to human activity. But whatever the reason for them, it is a problem in itself if the climate changes to a degree, so that people or animals are harmed for that matter and suffer from deterioration in living conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150231	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150233	What, then, does the Danish People's Party propose that we do?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150238	We are proposing the course which, in fact, a very broad majority in the Folketing supports, namely the conclusion of these international climate agreements. We have been warning for many years that the Danish soloisation in the climate area has more had the character of ritual acts, because it has not had a great influence on the global emissions of CO2 So we have always described Danish solitude as a ritual act. But now suddenly there are a lot of countries that I remember about 180 years ago that made a deal, and we are happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150316	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150324	Thank you for that, President. In the context of the debate on Mr Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution No. B 51 on Denmark's agreement to the initiative for a global moratorium on new coal mines and the extension of existing coal mines, the Left will vote against the proposal. The Left has sympathy for tackling the climate challenges facing island states in the Pacific, for example, and Denmark has also supported island states' development and climate management. In the Left, we agree that the expansion of coal-based electricity and energy production should be minimised. Having said that, however, we are of the opinion that coal will continue to form part of global energy production in the future, which, among other things, will be the case. have been listed by the International Energy Agency. In Denmark we have no coal mines, nor do we invest directly in anyone. The Danish People's Party's approach to international coal projects is that they must be implemented in the most energy efficient and environmentally friendly way. We have an ambitious approach which is also rooted in the concrete conditions in which coal remains an important part of global energy production. In other words, we promote green realism, and the Left does not believe that Denmark should go alone in this area, which is controversial both globally and in the context of the European Union. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, part of the Danish electricity production continues to be based on coal, which we import, and it will do so for some time to come. In this context, the Left believes that a Danish endorsement can send a problematic signal. In view of Denmark's imports of coal, it may seem politically contradictory to join a moratorium on the construction of coal mines, and we are also aware that Danish support for a global moratorium could be seen as limiting to Greenland's future potential for coal extraction. We do not want to be a brake on that. It is also conceivable that joining a moratorium would create increased pressure to limit the use of other fossil fuels such as oil and gas, and we in the Left do not want to promote this. We want Denmark to be able to benefit in the future from extracting the North Sea as well. It serves Denmark. In the light of these comments, the Left will therefore vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150611	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150616	After all, the Left is very concerned that things have to be realistic. I would like to ask the rapporteur: is it realistic that we achieve the 2-degree objective if we do not stop new coal mines?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150632	The way to achieve the 2-degree objective is to put pressure on those who produce and extract coal. We do, among other things. by means of the COP21 agreement, we are doing so by developing wind energy, and we are also doing so by helping to promote the positive development of the rest of the world's countries. That's the way we stop the extraction of coal, not by making declarations of intent like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150706	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150707	COP21 has had a very large effect on the countries that extract coal or have coal reserves. They've put a full screw on new coal mines. It cannot be fast enough for them to open new mines and flood the market with coal, because they can see that there is an expiry date. The problem with that approach is that then our climate has run out. So exactly the pressure that the rapporteur is talking about, in the real world, which we have to deal with when we talk about global climate change, has exactly the opposite effect. So I would just like to ask one more question: would it not be to exert pressure on the countries that are extracting coal if you went together on such a moratorium?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150757	So, as I know, this is a declaration of intent which, apart from some island states in the Pacific, has been signed by Tongo and Fiji, so it will not be seen as a great deal of pressure. Denmark alone has this, and we are also aware that other countries do not want to sign this declaration either. And that is, of course, because it is hot air and symbol politics if you do so. It is not something that is being translated into real action; it is not something that will put the coal industry under pressure. We do this by developing more wind energy and solar energy and taking initiatives that are concrete. We also do it by not just talking about CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150849	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. I'm just gonna ask you if Mr. Kevin's gonna be okay. Christian Poll wishes to speak. To the rapporteur? To the rapporteur, yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150856	Thank you. I think that if you invest in new coal mines, it is not something you just do with your left hand. I imagine that it is huge investment for a country to embark on investing in new coal mines. Then what I am thinking is, I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not true that if you have made such a huge investment, you will probably also use your influence politically and on the market to promote the market for the coal that you then produce from such a mine.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211150938	I am not aware of the cost of coal extraction. That is not something I would be able to answer on a stand-by basis here from the platform. However, it is the case that all stakeholders, whether it be about oil, gas, coal or what we are talking about, are of course interested in influencing political decisions in a direction that benefits them. Nevertheless, I am just delighted that we have been able to reach an ambitious agreement at COP 21, which can help to promote the green transition. We also need to be realistic, no matter how green our ambitions are. We cannot just become independent of fossil fuels from one day to the next. We are talking about a worldwide use of coal of 29 per cent, so that is not something we can just do overnight. If we look at the use of coal for electricity generation in Denmark, we have a 50-percent use rate of coal. So even for a rich country like Denmark, it is not something that we will be able to switch overnight. So this will only be a statement of intent and not something that will be useful, what to say, politically active.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211151054	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211151055	What this proposal is about is not closing all coal mines. After all, it is a question of stopping for new coal mines, for the expansion of coal-mining capacity. Would the rapporteur not agree with me that if we are to meet the new demands we have agreed in the Paris Agreement, then coal is one of the first things we need to phase out, and then the others will come later because coal is the worst fossil fuel?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211151136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211151137	We cannot take coal and then say that we start by phasing out, and then we start to phase out some other things. We have long-term objectives against which we cannot take any zigzag course, and that is that in 2050 we must be independent of fossil fuels if you ask the Danish Government. However, I agree that we must limit the use of coal, of course we must, and we would like to see three-quarters of the known reserves that we have remain in the ground, like the United Nations Climate Panel. We recognise that, and we fully agree with that. But the way in which we restrict the use of coal is not by restricting supply. It is to support more energy-efficient use of the coal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211151219	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211151242	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance we find it difficult to see the meaning of joining a stop to the creation of new coal mines and the expansion of existing ones. The consequences of stopping coal extraction before offering cheaper alternatives will, paradoxically, hit the poorest countries most. More than 1 billion people on the planet today, as far as I know, do not have access to electricity and, in our opinion, they will be maintained in poverty even longer if they do not have access to cheap power, and reduced economic growth will make it even more difficult for those countries to protect themselves against possible climate change. So the Liberal Alliance says no to this Enhedslisten parade proposal, because in our opinion it will have symbol value and no real effect and will certainly not do any good at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211151344	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211151348	I'll be damned. Does the rapporteur not agree with me that we must work globally to ensure that the global temperature increase does not exceed 2 degrees and that, if we are to do so, we will have to put an end to new ones? Now I have heard several rapporteurs who seem to have not noticed the word new. We have existing coal mines and it is not the case that we have to stop coal extraction tomorrow. We just don't have to set up new coal mines because if we do that, we're going to exceed CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20160211151431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211151431-2	The Liberal Alliance certainly recognises that a major climate agreement has now been reached, and we are so pleased about that, because then we can start to focus on perhaps getting closer to a solution rather than just talking so much about it. So it's at least a step along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211151454	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211151455	Good. In other words, the Liberal Alliance supports the 2-degree target. And if the Liberal Alliance does so, how will the Liberal Alliance achieve that goal if we do not want to support a global agreement to put an end to new coal mines?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211151509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211151510	Stop for new coal mines, which was what I just missed replying to, will certainly prevent growth in this area. It is impossible to run a coal mine if it is not allowed to expand and this will prevent possible growth in this area. It will then be precisely that these countries will not be able to cope with the consequences of climate change.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211151537	A brief comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211151541	I understood from the rapporteur that he stressed the need to provide cheap electricity for the poorest people in the world, and that sounded very sympathetic. There was recently a meeting in here at Christiansborg, where CARE Denmark had arranged some good presentations. Among other things, there were: a paper explaining how they are preparing in Bangladesh if it is the case that water levels continue to rise. There can be just a few centimeters of water rise, meaning that large rural areas are being flooded and that people have to move. So they had thus seen a well-planned strategy for millions to be moved to certain major cities in Bangladesh. I am quite sure that the people in Bangladesh appreciate more that we are slowing down these climate change rather than getting cheaper power tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211151638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211151640	Thank you for the minutes of a meeting in which, unfortunately, I was unable to attend. Perhaps it is precisely growth that we cannot achieve if we prevent coal from being extracted, and so, for example, we will. a country such as Bangladesh does not have economic opportunities to cope with the consequences of the climate change we see around us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211151702	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211151704	Well, I am glad to see here today that the Liberal Alliance also has Members who are obviously not climate-deniers and who do not start talking in every speech about nuclear power or something like that. So it may be that such debates as this one today can help to move some people and can help us to get a decision adopted, for example. such a proposal, which we have put on the agenda today, to put an end to more new coal mines. I am well aware that it will not be the Liberal Alliance that supports us in the short term, but let us continue the dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211151736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211151737	The Liberal Alliance is always interested in dialogue with any party in the Folketing, and I can then tell the questioner that I am actually a geologist and that I fully recognise that climate change has always existed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211151753	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211151806	What we must particularly bear in mind at this time, when we are transforming from an energy system based on fossil fuels into a renewable energy system, are the major investments that we are embarking on when building our energy system. It can, for example, be done. It is also possible to invest in a new coal mine. It's a violent thing. It will typically be a large area, such a cover, and it will be a huge investment at many levels. This means, of course, that if a new investment has been made, it is expected to be written off over a long period of time and, of course, it will be ensured that it is possible to dispose of its coal. So in the alternative, we think it is important to go through the whole chain when we talk about having to live up to the Paris agreement of December. We must make every effort to keep ourselves below one-and-a-half-two-degree temperature increase, and we must do so effectively. The proposal we are talking about here that Denmark joins the initiative for a global moratorium on the construction of new coal mines, we can endorse for that very reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211151927	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Emrah Tuncer, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211151939	Thank you. I can start by saying that the Radical Left supports the proposal. A future without coal and actually oil is worth the effort. Now and here it will cost to invest in a green future, but that investment will come back in a cleaner environment, a better climate and in the development of new business opportunities. That is why the Radical Left had a proposal that we in Denmark should go to phase out coal over the next 10 years. The Enhedslisten's proposal is that Denmark should work internationally to replace coal with renewable energy worldwide. Coal is the biggest climate sinner and creates a lot of air pollution. The Radical Left fully agrees that this is the way the world should go. We have to choose the green road, not the black coal road. That is why we can support the Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211152025	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. I see no rapporteur here for the Socialist People's Party, so the next in line is Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211152040	Thank you. Like several of the previous rapporteurs, I would like to express sympathy, in a way, both with regard to the proposal, but also with regard to the difficult situation facing these island states. It must be so incredibly heartbreaking to see that the country and the nation you love are threatened by the climate change that we must do what we can to combat. After all, we ourselves met with some of these representatives of the small island states at the climate summit, and it is clear that it makes a great impression when they tell us about the future they fear to face. That is why it was both right and important for the climate summit to recognise for the first time the objective of 11⁄2 degrees rather than 2 degrees. This is something that should be pursued, especially, of course, for the sake of the island states. However, if we do not support this resolution, it is because energy demand is expected to increase in the coming years. In order to meet that demand, the assessment is from among other things. The International Energy Agency means that we will also need coal. I am well aware that the proposers have made it clear here that it does not mean a stop for all present mines, but a stop for enlargement and a stop for new mines. In a sense, however, I think it is worth questioning whether it cannot be in the interests of society if, for example, some mines are closed where there is inefficient extraction or where other conditions make them even less advantageous. It could then be better with mines that use better technology. I am not going to be able to say this, but at the same time some of the flexibility is being removed with this proposal. However, there is no doubt that we must reduce the use of coal over the years as green energy sources develop even more. I fully agree with the objective that by 2050, we should be independent of fossil fuels. I am also fully aware that if we are to be able to meet this target of max. One-and-a-half degrees, a very, very large proportion of the fuels we know must remain in the soil. This applies both to coal and to oil. Even now we can see that more and more investments are being moved into green forms of energy by large investment companies that do not want to go down the black road, but rather want to go down the green road. It gives a lot of optimism and hopes that there is also a market which is aware that we do not want these polluting energy sources to be a major element of future energy supply. It'll only go one way from now on. The only question is whether we can afford to introduce this stop now and here. It is my opinion that we cannot do this. It must also be said that there has been little support for President Tong's initiative from so many other countries than just a few of the other island states. So with these comments, I have to say that we in the Conservative People's Party do not support the proposal, but we fully recognise that a very large proportion of fossil fuels must remain in the soil if we are to meet the objectives we have together to combat temperature increases.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211152412	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211152416	I am pleased that the rapporteur has sympathy with the island states that will sink into the sea if we do not reach the global climate targets. I just note that when the island states reach out to the rich countries and ask if they will not support this moratorium to ensure that we do not build new coal mines, which is the only thing that can ensure that we reach the targets, then we say no. They say: No, unfortunately, because we believe that there will still be a demand for energy. If we are serious about these ambitious climate targets, we also have to deal with the consequences of supporting the objectives. Moreover, if we are to be a green forerunner, as I also believe the Conservative People's Party believes, we have to say that it may well be that all the rich countries do not flock to this initiative, but that some have to take the lead and say: yes, we are behind the objective, and we are actually prepared to do what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211152524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211152526	As far as I am concerned, it is not a crucial argument that a number of countries have not yet joined, because I agree with the rapporteur that Denmark may well be the first country to take the lead, including with new initiatives. So for me, that's not what matters. The rapporteur says that when some reach out, they must also be accepted and that sympathy and friendly thoughts are not enough. That is why I thought it was so good that we had this 1.5-degree objective clarified at the Paris climate summit and got it written in for the first time de facto. I think that somewhere is to recognise the problems that exist. I'll leave it at that for this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211152610	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211152612	However, if you are happy with the 1.5-degree target, you will also have to deal with the consequences of supporting the 1.5-degree target. We can't reach the 1.5-degree target if we build new coal mines. The context is not difficult and complex, the context is quite simple. Now there are some who have taken an initiative and say: we agree with the whole world on an ambitious goal, and the achievement of that climate target has quite concrete consequences that we can count on. So if you support that objective, you will, in my view, be and I also hoped, in the view of the rapporteur, that you will have to support the initiatives to ensure that the objective is achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211152656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211152657	I apologise to the rapporteur. That's the part I didn't get the answer to. It occurred to me that there was something I needed to answer. I'm sorry. I have not seen evidence that the only way we can achieve the 1.5-degree target is by the rapporteur for the proposers today. If there really is evidence that this is the only option we have, then we have to look at it. I just haven't seen that evidence yet, but we'll have to discuss it later. The 1.5-degree objective is something that we are striving to achieve and something that we must work for, and it will now be up to the forthcoming climate summit to give concrete shape to what initiatives need to be taken to achieve it. We must then see whether the only option is what is being put on the table today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211152741	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I can see that the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mr. Jonas Dahl has arrived. He has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211152751	Thank you. I didn't expect it to go so fast, so I took advantage of getting to the little house. That's the way it is. All I have to say is that we in the SF can warmly support the proposal. On the whole, we believe that there is a need to get to grips with this difficult discussion about how to secure an international agreement to leave the bulk of fossil fuels in the ground well to feel. Compared to the whole discussion about CO2 I think somewhere, it is a difficult discussion, and I think it is if possible even harder than having reduced CO2 but coal is an obvious place to start, and therefore it is also disappointing that the government or even the bourgeois side of the Chamber is not more visible today or has been more obvious in looking at it here. The Paris agreement, which we saw here in December, has already had a favourable effect on the interest in investing in the most disgusting fossil fuels. And coal, as the authors also say, is a major polluter when it comes to sulphur and harmful heavy metals such as mercury and cadmium. There are also huge economic and also human savings in relation to the suffering that people are suffering from, by actually doing something about it here, also in relation to the costs that we see not only now but also in the years to come, in relation to the health sector, if we do not leave the coal where it lies. And it is not just a Danish challenge, it is a global challenge. At the time the SF suggested the previous government to stick a feeler out to like-minded countries to start international reflections on how we can start a track up where the world stops the extraction of coal, oil and gas. The then government did not think it was time to start a new track, and I do not believe that the current government is looking at it differently. However, it is disappointing that we in Denmark are not willing to take a few more steps forward, also in terms of solving the societal challenges we are creating, not only in Denmark, but also globally in the coming years, if we do nothing or continue to sit on our hands. As a small curl on it, we have a discussion in Denmark about the shale gas, which for me can be easily connected to this discussion, in relation to how one should consider leaving some of the fossil fuels we are talking about today in the ground instead of taking them up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211153007	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I will give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211153016	Thank you. I believe that a majority in this Parliament supports the global agreement agreed by the world community at the Paris climate summit. I would like to repeat what was the aim of that agreement. It is a goal to keep the global temperature increase below 2 degrees and a call to work to limit the temperature increase to 11⁄2 degrees. In addition, a long-term vision is set that global emissions should peak as soon as possible and then be reduced quickly. What does that mean? Well, that means that 80 per cent is a key point. of the known reserves of fossil fuels shall remain in the soil. And I repeat, 80%. of known reserves! It is not mine It means that huge amounts of the coal that we know where are, that is, known reserves, which are either being extracted or which will be extracted later, do not go up to the surface of the earth and burn off. I assume that there is a majority in this House that agrees with this. It is a fact that if new coal mines are not stopped, as we are proposing here, it will not be possible to limit emissions of CO2 I am really, really pleased that the Radical Left, that the SF and the Alternative support this proposal. I am very sorry that we have not brought the Socialists along, and I am also sorry that the Conservatives will not join us. I can understand the Conservative rapporteur's view that if we can go a little deeper in the calculations underlying this proposal in committee, we will reconsider. I think that is very positive. What I have heard from the other parties is that it is considered that it is sufficient to focus solely on demand. If we just focus on what Denmark itself is doing, we have done enough. I fully agree that demand is important and that Denmark's green conversion is extremely important, but the problem is that it is not enough. Because if there is something that the Paris climate agreement has really set in motion, it is that the countries that have coal reserves can see that if they are to make the economic gain from those reserves, they must hurry to pick them up. In Australia right now there's a giant mine under construction. If it were to be built in Denmark, it would stretch from Copenhagen to the top of North Zealand. It's as big as mine as you plan to build. If you first get started and if you first decide that it and corresponding mines should be built and emptied, the climate does not stand a chance at all. Some have also argued that we cannot phase out fossil fuels overnight. No, we cannot do that, and that is not the point of this proposal either. There are already coal mines in progress, and we do not question them with this proposal. We're not saying they should close. What we are saying is that new coal mines should not be set up. On the part of the Liberal Alliance, I heard that it was a parade proposal and that we are concerned that if we adopt this proposal, we will limit the potential for growth in the coal industry. To that I can only say: yes, that is the purpose. I would like to thank you for the debate here today and I would like to thank you for the support of three of the parliamentary parties. I hope that in committee we can get some more on board.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211153439	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Joel, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211153443	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for raising this debate. In fact, I think it is essential to have it discussed. If, however, we have been a little bit sceptical, because we think it is a blow in the air, let me just start from the rapporteur's own speech. There's a mine under construction in Australia. If all the other countries in the world voted for this moratorium, could you force Australia not to open its mine?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211153513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211153514	Just as when you are conducting global climate negotiations under the auspices of the COP, I do not think anyone can force anyone to do anything. What we can do internationally and what we need to do is to come together and put pressure on the countries we must try to get on board, the countries that are still in the fossil industrial world. And that is really what this is all about, namely that as many countries as possible come together and say that this is necessary here and help put pressure on a country like Australia and the other countries that are planning new coal mines like this coal mine I am talking about. So that is the purpose, and that is what is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211153552	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211153553	Okay, but then we've established that we can't stop those who want to make money as long as there's a market. Then we are back on exactly our point, namely that it is a matter of restricting the market. I think it is very possible that there are some who are rushing right now to dig up coal because they can see it has an expiration date. In this closed room, I hope that some of them will burn their fingers because we do not need all the coal in which they are going to invest. But I just think that this illustrates precisely our point, namely that we must limit demand. That was the agreement we made in Paris, and we must make sure that we stick to it. We must ensure that this agreement is maintained.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211153629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211153630	I think the odd thing about the Socialists' speech here is that it is as if we have to choose: will we either limit demand or will we limit supply? I fully agree, as I said in my speech, that we must, of course, limit demand. However, we also need to deal with the supply and we need to do everything we can to stop the coal projects under construction. And the whole thing about joining up on a global moratorium is just an opportunity to put pressure on. I'm open to other options if anyone else has ideas. But you have to take action on both fronts, and one does not exclude the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211153708	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211153726	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until 23 February 2016. The first person to whom I give the floor for a explanatory statement is the rapporteur for the authors of the question, Mr Beazley. Jens Joel, the Social Democrats. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211153826	Thank you. I should just like to say briefly on behalf of the parties, who also read out by the President, that we thought it was appropriate to have a discussion in the Folketing of the statement we have received from the government, with a view to also having a look at some of the challenges for the future in relation to energy policy. That is why we have put the question today and, of course, I look forward to both the Minister's reply and the debate afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211153852	Thank you for that and then I give the floor to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211153902	Thank you for that, President. Before Christmas, the Climate Policy Review for 2015 was presented to the Danish Parliament, and the Energy and Climate Projection for 2015, also called the base projection, was released. At the same time, we in the Danish Parliament had a longer debate on the objectives of Danish climate policy. Shortly before, all the countries of the world managed to agree on a global climate agreement at COP21 in Paris. It was an historic moment and the Paris Agreement is a turning point for the global transition to low-mission. It shows a marked shift in international climate action from action from the few to action from many. The agreement obliges all the countries of the world to draw up national plans to reduce their emissions. 187 countries have already presented their national climate plans. They cover more than 95%. of the world's emissions. For comparison, the Kyoto Protocol covers less than 15%. The agreement is an important step in the right direction, but we are not in the right direction. In the coming years, the agreement must be implemented and the global level of ambition must be increased. We thus completed 2015 with a massive focus on climate policy both nationally and internationally, and the messages from the climate policy statement 2015 may have drowned a little among the many other climate policy statements. I am therefore pleased to have this opportunity to discuss climate policy statement 2015 with the Folketing. Before I go into the most important messages in the statement, there are some points concerning this particular statement which are worth paying attention to. Indeed, the statement is somewhat atypical in relation to the climate policy statements that will come forward. It follows from the Climate Act that an annual climate policy statement is to be prepared. The 2015 statement is therefore the first statutory climate policy statement. According to the Climate Act, the statement should address the Climate Council's recommendations in the annual climate policy statement. Since 2015 has been a start-up year for the Climate Council, the first release from the Climate Council came in early November. As the climate policy statement has to go through both inter-ministerial coordination and government procedures before it can be submitted to the Danish Parliament, it was therefore not possible in time to take into account the recommendations of the Climate Council in this year's climate policy statement. From 2016 onwards, the Climate Council will present its recommendations to the government in June, while the statement with the government's position on the recommendations will be presented to the Danish Parliament in November. Another element I would like to highlight is that climate policy statement 2015 is based on figures from the base projection from 2014. The Danish Energy Agency prepares the Danish base projection annually. The 2015 base projection was only completed on 16 December 2015 and, as with the Climate Council's recommendations, it was therefore not possible to incorporate the results of this in the climate policy statement 2015, even if it had been obvious. Overall, it can be said that 2015 has been a start-up year. Forward-looking, there will be a more reasonable cadence, where there will be better coherence between the publication of the Climate Council's recommendations, climate policy statement and the annual base projection. With these words, I will move on to the messages of the climate policy statement. Climate Policy 2015 sets out the framework for Danish climate policy and the international climate commitments that Denmark must fulfil in the future. It is thus made clear that it is the long-term solutions and the international commitments that we have in our sights. The most important message in the statement is that Denmark has fulfilled its historical commitments on climate change and that the expectation is that this will also apply in relation to the ambitious climate targets that Denmark will have to meet by 2020. In fact, we expect to over-fulfil our EU objectives. As regards the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the non-quota sectors, Denmark, together with Luxembourg and Ireland, has undertaken the highest reduction target of 20%. in 2020 compared to 2005. According to the latest baseline projection, Denmark's targets are expected to be overcrowded in the period 2013-2020. Denmark's targets for renewable energy expansion by 2020 are also expected to be overcrowded. Here we are required to increase the share of renewable energy in final energy consumption to 30%. in 2020, but according to the baseline projection, the share is expected to increase to approx. 40% According to the latest baseline projection, Denmark is expected to have reduced the total greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2020. in 2020 compared to 1990. We are therefore among the leading countries in the world and in the European Union in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and converting to renewable energy. Another important message in the climate policy statement 2015 is that Denmark is expected to meet ambitious climate targets in the longer run, initially towards 2030, where Denmark will have to meet the commitments arising from the EU's goal to reduce the EU's total greenhouse gas emissions by 40%. in 2030. Denmark has a tradition of working to ensure a high level of ambition in the climate area of the European Union, while at the same time assuming our share of responsibility. That tradition the government will continue. Therefore, Denmark makes a significant contribution to climate action within the EU's common quota trading system covering the energy sector and industry. Denmark promises to do this ambitious reduction efforts in the so-called non-quota sectors, which, in popular terms, include the three B's: farmers, cars and buildings. The expectation is that Denmark will again take on a high reduction target in the non-quota sector during the period 2021-2030. This is because the distribution of effort between Member States must be based to a large extent on GDP per capita. citizen. As one of the richest countries in the EU, Denmark must therefore expect to have to take on a high reduction target. However, there needs to be an adjustment so that countries with relatively high costs of reducing their emissions have reduced their targets, while countries with relatively lower costs have increased their targets. This adjustment has been an important priority for Denmark in the negotiations in the EU, but we do not yet know to what extent this adjustment will affect Denmark's reduction targets. The European Commission is expected to make a proposal this summer to how much the various EU countries are going to reduce emissions in the non-quota sectors by 2030. At the same time, the Commission comes up with a proposal on how emissions and removals of CO2 Once the European Commission has presented the proposals, they will subsequently be negotiated in the EU. We expect that the Commission's proposals will give an indication of what the future climate policy framework will look like, and the government will, of course, keep up to shape this outcome so that Denmark's interests are taken into account as much as possible. However, it is important to emphasise that we must expect some time to elapse before we have the final agreement on legislation in place in the European Union. There is a wide range of issues in future EU legislation that will have a major impact on how to organise our climate action in the unquotad sectors from 2021 until 2030. Firstly, we know Denmark's reduction targets for the non-quota sector only when the legislation has been negotiated in place in the European Union. Secondly, EU legislation will contain a number of elements that are expected to contribute to a more cost-effective achievement of the reduction target for the non-quota sectors. It consists, among other things, of: I believe that the existing possibilities for purchasing other Member States' emission rights need to be improved. In addition, the legislation will include a new flexibility mechanism. It should contribute to countries with major challenges in the non-quota sector being able to use quotas from the EU's quota trading system to a limited extent to meet the objective of the non-quota sectors. These elements are important to finally clarify before diving into a more concrete position on how we in Denmark organise the most appropriate and cost-effective climate action towards 2030. It is, in fact, a high priority for the government to ensure that future climate action is geared to growth, employment and competitiveness. It is no secret that it can be a challenge to meet an expected high 2030 target for the non-quota sectors and that the challenge could potentially be particularly great for Danish agriculture and the transport sector. That is why we are now focusing first and foremost on shaping future EU legislation so that we can ensure that Denmark's particular challenge is taken into account as far as possible in the non-quota sectors. In addition to making recommendations for the organisation of the overall energy policy after 2020, the future Energy Commission will also have to look at cost-effective solutions for managing international climate commitments after 2020. When we know more about the framework in the European Union, we can start to look at how we organise our climate policy from 2021 to 2030. However, we must be aware that there is still some way to go before we have a final agreement on legislation in the European Union. But the good news is that precisely because we seem to be able to meet our climate targets by 2020 without having to take any further action, we now have the time to think and do our preparatory work properly. If we do that, I am confident that we will solve the challenges and, at the same time, succeed in fulfilling our international commitments while ensuring growth, employment and competitiveness. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211155020	Thank you, Minister. I shall now give the floor to the rapporteur for the questions put to us, Mr President. Jens Joel, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211155037	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for answering the question. To put it mildly, there is enough to tackle. After all, the government's statement shows that we are facing quite considerable challenges. These are also challenges which, if handled properly, can give us some opportunities to create some green jobs to secure some of the Danish strength positions. And that is probably what we should have discussed today, in other words how we ensure the link between high ambitions in the green area and the fact that we also reap the income from exports and in terms of jobs that it can provide. Now we have just been to Paris before Christmas and I have to say that it was not uplifting to walk around as part of a delegation from a country that had just put down its climate ambitions. In a situation where everyone else set them up and where Obama and the rest of the world said that now we must go together to decide on an ambitious climate agreement, we came from Denmark and said: we are actually lowering our ambitions. Well, it ended just after Paris that we got a statement which showed that we were going to hit the target anyway, but it was not, so to speak, on purpose. I think that when I dive into this statement and in the Minister's reply, I can see some things that amaze me a little. For example: I think the Minister is very clear that we are facing some challenges, not least in the non-quota sectors. As stated in the report, we will have a reduction requirement, therefore, a requirement in the EU decisions that have already been taken, which will translate into a high-end requirement for the non-quota sector. And it is particularly transport and agriculture, as the Minister said. At the same time, it is felt that the preparatory work, which the Minister said we have plenty of time for, is also going very, very slowly, I would say. Well, I haven't heard anything about processed. I do not really think we are going yet, and I would like to raise the concern that it might actually be more expensive to solve our challenges in 2030 in transport and agriculture, respectively, if we wait until 2020 to address the challenge. That is why we have challenged the government by saying: it is fair enough that you do not know exactly what the regulation from the European Union will be and that therefore you cannot put the last nails in. But if we all know that it is a major change that must begin, I do not think it is necessarily an advantage. When the government cares so much about cost-effectiveness, I do not think it will be cheaper to wait four years to get started. I do not think that those professions, whether in the agricultural sector or in the transport sector, will be better off if we close our eyes and do nothing for the next four years and then wake up and say: we are really in a hurry now. That is why our call from the Social Democrats to the government must be: let us now get to grips with the discussions on this. As the Minister says, we will achieve our target by 2020, so it may well be that it is not in 2018 and 2020 that new demands need to be made. But let us agree on what we need to do by 2020, so that we can get moving so that it is cheaper for everyone. We would very much like to enter into that discussion with the government, but it is absent, as long as the government is actually talking as little about climate as possible. I would say that it will probably also have negative consequences for our exports and our green jobs if we are not sure that we are serious. We are in the happy situation that we are making a lot of money from green technology and that we are the best in the world to take advantage of this. It has been a pity to see that there are some companies that have said, so to speak, that if this is a sledgehammer, if this is an expression of the fact that you are not sure you mean it, then we become a little uncertain about our investments, and then we may be dragging them elsewhere. That is why I think that the government should stick to both the broad consensus we have on energy policy. I hear that you do that too, but also that you have to say: how do we ensure that the climate element is included? In other words, what the Minister has explained here; the challenges that we know we will face after 2020. I think there are some vaguenesss, if I may be a little more textual. On page 14 of the statement, the Minister also mentioned the fact that Denmark is expected to be obliged to meet reduction targets at the high end. I have mentioned this and, by 2020, greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture and transport are expected to be an increasing proportion. And then it says that it may be difficult to achieve a potentially high reduction target for these emissions only through national measures and at no high cost. I would like the Minister to be able, in the next round, to lift a little bit of the veil of what is really being imagined there. So, is it because the government believes that we should make widespread use of climate credits, or what is it like? At any rate, this is not a solution that we can use after 2020 in the same way as we have been able to do up to now. That is why I fear that the problem will be pushed forward. So to sum up: We are delighted that Denmark is still away in the green jersey. We also note that in Paris we had a large market for all the talented green companies, but we also had many more competitors. After Paris, it's clear to the rest of the world that there's money to be made by betting green and developing these technologies, and we might be in the leading position and in the green driver's shirt right now. Then some others will overtake us, and then they will be the ones to provide jobs and export earnings from green technology. So we think the government should get into work, address some of the challenges. We acknowledge that they are difficult, but let's discuss the difficult things. For the thing about waiting until 2020, when there is a high demand from the European Union, on which everyone agrees, and then addressing what to do in transport and agriculture, I do not think it will be cheaper in agriculture or transport by or that anyone else will be happier. So let's have a talk about how we get started, and then let's do a phase-in which is so long that they actually have a chance to adjust and adjust to it. That will be our call in advance of today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211155728	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211155746	I should like to begin by thanking the Minister for the statement which was sent here at the end of last year. That is a statement which I have read with great interest. It explains both the government's own policy in this area, but it also explains more soberly what the status is on the different objectives that Denmark has, both in relation to international commitments, but also what has been decided by its own objectives here in Denmark. I would say that the Danish People's Party is pleased that we are in line with our goal in terms of the international commitments we have with climate gas emissions, which we have promised foreign parties to reduce. We note that this objective has been achieved, and that in itself is gratifying. We can then also read from the statement that there is some over-fulfilment of this objective. In the Danish People's Party, we have for many years warned that Denmark's energy and climate policy were unnecessarily expensive, that we went very alone and went very quickly along a path that not so many other countries moved on. This has caused us a huge socio-economic loss, a loss of competitiveness and jobs abroad, because we have gone alone. As long as renewable energy is expensive and more expensive than conventional energy, we think that we should hold back and confine ourselves to meeting the objectives that we have committed ourselves to and have set ourselves, and not go into over-fulfilment of these obligations. When we in the Danish People's Party look at energy and climate policy, we say that, of course, we must respect our commitments, but we must make it cheapest possible. Care must be taken to think very carefully before making decisions on how to deal with our energy and climate policy. So a headline that is important to us is that our energy and climate policy should be cost-effective. It must be organised in such a way as to give growth and so that it provides jobs and does not do the opposite. Because it is easy enough to create jobs in the green industry if we subsidise to a large extent, or if the law states that the country's citizens and companies must buy the products produced in the green industry. Then jobs will be created in the green industry, but indeed many jobs will be lost among companies that have reduced their competitiveness vis-à-vis the rest of the world. So we have to be very careful what we make of decisions in this area. It is important for us, as I said, that our energy and climate policy should precisely provide growth and provide jobs and not the opposite. Then I would also like to remind you that I believe that the best energy policy we can pursue and the best climate policy we can pursue are not necessarily that we need to replace our entire production apparatus, in other words that our entire energy production capacity must be switched from fossil energy to green energy as soon as possible. In fact, I think the cheapest way to reduce CO2 is by energy saving. It is also something that is sound socio-economic in that citizens and companies with a guarantee can find better ways to spend their money than to pay too much for energy. So I think we can save a lot of socio-economic savings, but also on CO2 It is a cheaper way to go than to replace the entire production apparatus. The last thing I want to do here before my time expires is to make better use of the green energy we are already producing. We must note that we have invested in a very large green production plant, especially wind turbines. After all, the Danish People's Party has not always been a strong supporter of us doing so quickly. But we note that it has been done and that capacity is now there. Then we just need to make better use of it now that production is there. Unfortunately, it is a fact that much of our electricity production is produced at uneven times when demand is not there, and then we will have to export some subsidised energy abroad at very low prices. There's not much point in that. So we need to get better at using our energy that we subsidise. We need it as best we can. It is our input into the energy and climate policy debate that we need to focus on energy savings and on using the energy we already have. With those words, I would like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211160322	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are three short remarks, and the first is Mr. Jens Joel of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211160330	Thank you. As I mentioned in the rapporteur's speech, this is also about jobs, and I believe that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party agrees with me on this. In fact, there are also a great many jobs in the green sector, where there is not only an educational spread, so there are engineers, 3Fs and metal workers, but there is also a geographical spread, so that some of the green jobs we can create, for example. can be in an area such as Holstebro, which could use 1,000 extra jobs. In this connection, my very specific question is whether the Danish People's Party supports the inclusion requirement which could provide the 1,000 jobs in the area around the Måbjergværket at Holstebro.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211160408	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211160409	I am well aware of the desire from many quarters to create a demand for products from Måbjerg by making an incorporation requirement. However, this is a little like saying that we can create a lot of jobs in the bakery industry if we say that all people must have an EU demand for a certain amount of renewable energy in the transport sector in a few years' time, and then we see the Måbjergværk and the incorporation requirement as a good idea of how to meet this renewable demand that will be met in four years' time. However, as I said, the focus of the Danish People's Party is also that we do it as cost-effectively as possible, and if therefore there are other solutions that are better than the Måbjergværket, which provide a better socio-economic system or which may provide more jobs, then we would also like to look at it. We haven't determined whether it's Måbjerg we think it should be, but somehow you have to solve it in relation to this VE requirement, and there's Måbjerg a very good offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211160513	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211160514	Yeah, yeah, but it's not new, and it's not bakers' bread we're talking about. We are talking about this statement, which we have all just read and which says that we have to do something in the transport sector, and here we can do something in concrete terms that will even give a lot of jobs in West Jutland to some unskilled and some skilled, to some skilled people over there who have got a good idea. And I just think it's important to know if they can count on the Danish People's Party there. Or would the Danish People's Party rather have a cheap solution from yesterday than to create tomorrow's jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211160548	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211160549	The Danish People's Party wants the best solution, and if Måbjerg is the best solution, it is the one we want. As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, we are aware that we have some obligations to fulfil, and one of them is the requirement of 10%. renewable energy in the transport sector by 2020. We need to find a solution to this, and Måbjerg is playing in it as a solution. We recognise that and it can also throw away some jobs. But we take the best solution, and if there is anything better, we will look into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211160620	Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211160623	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur recognises that the fact that we have been a global green forerunner has created thousands of green jobs in Denmark and that the fact that, at an early stage, a great many years ago, we have dared to focus on wind energy has made it so many years after we speak decades and still have a global leadership position within, for example, Europe. offshore wind turbines. Is that an image that the rapporteur can nod to, that is, that is actually what has happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211160659	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211160701	I don't want to deny the facts. And it is but, as I have also said, we must be careful that it happens cost-effectively when we conduct energy and climate policy, and it is not certain that the policy we have pursued has been the optimal one. It is true that it has thrown a lot of jobs and a lot of exports of it, and that is, in isolation, positive; I fully acknowledge that. However, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, it was to Mr. Jens Joel is not the great art of creating jobs if one simply adopts a law that people have to buy the products from a particular industry or if one decides that one will support a particular industry with a lot of money. Because then there will be jobs there, and that is what has happened here. However, we welcome the fact that people have been working all these years and that they will continue to be, and we welcome the exports that have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211160801	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211160803	Does the rapporteur not agree with me that there can also be a huge potential for jobs in the sectors that the world is currently facing, and this is about transport, and this is about agriculture? Because there is no one who can drive freely here on the long track, because everyone has agreed to a global target, so everyone has to get started. So if, in those sectors too, we manage to be a global pioneer and are able to develop the solutions that we know the whole world will be looking for, is there not a great many jobs to be created here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211160836	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211160837	It is certain that with the climate agreement decided in Paris a few months ago, a greater global demand for green technology has been created. Anything else would just surprise me if it were the opposite. So there is a great export option for Danish companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211160858	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211160902	Thank you. I could hear that the rapporteur was concerned about the loss of competitiveness. I assume that these are energy prices that the rapporteur was thinking about. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur is aware that what statistics show is that in Denmark we have lower energy costs for industry than in other EU countries. This is clear from some answers given to me by the Minister last October. It has even been so significant that the Minister has had to change his rhetoric about energy prices in Denmark. I would like to know whether the rapporteur is aware of the fact that we are actually in the low end and thus have a better competitiveness than other EU countries when looking at electricity prices including PSO taxes and looking at everything that industry pays for its energy supply in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211160959	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211161000	It is true that certain sectors are exempt from the full electricity tax. The Danish People's Party itself has helped to adopt and negotiate this in certain agreements, but that is not the general picture. There are still a lot of sectors and also households that pay a very, very high consumer price on electricity, and that does of course mean that you cannot spend the money on anything else. The individual household would probably also experience a higher level of prosperity if the electricity price was somewhat lower, for then you could spend the money on something that was more fun than paying a high electricity bill. The same applies to those sectors of the economy which are not exempt from these taxes. They see that it is more expensive for them to buy electricity and that it reduces their competitiveness.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211161047	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211161048	It then improves their competitiveness if they are good at keeping their energy consumption down. I heard that the rapporteur is concerned about the export of electricity at a low price. I fully agree with the rapporteur that we need to find solutions. I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not think it is doubtful that the Danish People's Party's Finance Act cut off the large heat pumps and reduced the cost of research and development to half what they have been in the past. Is it not something that is pulling in the wrong direction when it comes to finding solutions that make us have more use of our currents in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211161127	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211161128	The exercise carried out under the Finance Act was, of course, that after its accession the Government has reviewed the energy sector for various aid schemes. This is an area which has been allowed to grow wildly and violently under the previous government because it had an ideological desire for this to be a large area. It's been gone after in the seams. We in the Danish People's Party are actually very pleased that it has been pursued. But in the long term it is not these small subsidies and subsidies that need to promote better use of energy. That is the long move, and that is what we are making legislation about here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211161208	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Mikkel Dencker. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211161216	Thank you for that, President. I am pleased that today we have occasion to debate and focus on Denmark's climate policy and efforts. There is much to discuss, and our starting point in the Left is that our climate policy must be based on green realism. We must be ambitious, but above all we must be realistic. Denmark is a pioneering country in the green area. It is also one of the main conclusions of the 2015 climate policy statement and I was pleased to read the statement, which confirms that the Danish climate action is going well, as did the base projection recently published. Denmark has fulfilled its historic commitments, and it is a clear expectation that with the already planned climate action, we will also fulfil our commitments by 2020. We even expect to over-fulfil our EU targets, although Denmark is one of the countries that is taking on the highest greenhouse gas emission reduction target in the non-quota sectors. Similarly, we also expect to over-fulfil our renewable energy development targets. In the Left, we want Denmark to continue to have a leading position in the green area. At the same time, we are fully aware that if the green transition becomes too expensive for the state and for business, it will damage our competitiveness, it will damage our growth and it will damage our employment opportunities. In that case, no one abroad will find the Danish road and the Danish model for green conversion attractive. We are also aware that climate challenges are cross-border. That is why solutions must, of course, also be found across borders. No matter how much we want it, Denmark cannot and must not shoulder the responsibility alone. In the autumn, many of us participated in COP21 in Paris. I welcome the fact that we got the country a global climate agreement that is more ambitious than what most people had dared to hope for and expected and have seen before. With the climate agreement, all the countries of the world agreed to work to reduce their emissions. That's the way we're going. We must ensure that all countries act to meet the climate challenges and that in a small country like Denmark we do not try to lift all the burdens alone. With all this in mind, we are looking at how to organise a climate policy towards 2030 that is consistent with our objective of ensuring growth, employment and competitiveness. It is clear that a crucial part of the work depends on how the EU's proposals for burden-sharing for the non-quota sectors will look. When the game is played out, we need to look at how we meet our 2030 commitments in the best way. In the context of the negotiations on the future climate policy framework of the European Union, we in the Left will, of course, try to influence the negotiations, to the extent that we have the opportunity at all, so that Denmark's interests are taken into account as much as possible. At this stage, we do not yet know the EU's climate action in the non-quota sectors from 2021 until 2030, and we do not yet know what the distribution will look like, but it is clear that it can be a challenge for Denmark when we have to meet the 2030 targets that can be expected to be very high for Denmark. When we know the 2030 targets for Denmark, we must then start to organise an effort that is as cost-effective as possible. We must fulfil the obligations imposed in the most appropriate way. With these words, the Left fully endorses the conclusions and analyses contained in the statement, and we look forward to the continued work in preparing a good and sensible climate policy and action for Denmark that helps to solve the climate challenges, while ensuring growth, ensuring development and the Danish jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211161703	There are some brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211161708	Thank you. I am very pleased that the rapporteur also mentions the agreement in Paris, because there is no doubt that the agreement at COP21 has changed the climate policy picture globally. We have agreed that we have to work to keep the global temperature increase about 11⁄2 degrees, i.e. well below 2 degrees. That means, of course, that everyone has to increase the level of ambition. This applies to all countries. Because right now, global temperature increases are going to be 3-4 degrees. So does the rapporteur not agree with me that we also have a Danish task in putting pressure on the European Union and saying that we, too, in the European Union, must increase our longer-term objectives so that we become even more ambitious in the European Union and that we, too, in Denmark, will take on an even greater commitment?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211161759	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211161800	Thank you. I am very pleased that Enhedslisten supports both the Left and the Government's intention to put pressure on the rest of the EU in the area of climate policy, precisely because Denmark is a very small player. Denmark has achieved some very large reductions. This does not mean that we are in the goal and that we should not go further, because of course we must achieve something effective, of course we must get the rest of the world countries to move in Denmark's direction. That we can then have the positive side effect, that it can open up some export adventures, etc., is of course to be welcomed. However, I fully agree with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211161838	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211161840	Does this mean that I am hearing the rapporteur from the Left so that it is the policy of the Left that the government must now push the European Union, also at the 2030 target, to say that we have an agreement in Paris, and that is why we in the European Union also need to turn up our targets even more in 2030 and in the long run?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211161858	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211161859	Well, both in the Left and in the Government, we hope that the rest of Europe will move more towards Denmark. This is crucial if we are to achieve results. So yes, we hope that the rest of Europe will approach Denmark's ambition level.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211161918	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Joel of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211161923	Thank you for that and thank you to the Left rapporteur for the speech. I note, of course, that the rapporteur also attaches importance to the fact that something needs to be done about the non-quota sectors, such as: is the agricultural and transport sector. I also note that the rapporteur of the Left says that this must, of course, be something that makes the best social gain possible. I would like to ask the rapporteur 'Because I think you might want to think more than just crowns and ears into a social gain', for example. the jobs which I know, Mr President. Thomas Danielsen knows very well, and who is waiting in the field at Måbjerg, also included, so that one can say that it may well be a little more expensive, but that there are some jobs in return. Does the Left actually support the mixing requirement and the realisation of the Måbjergværk?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211162014	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211162015	Thank you. The Måbjergværket has an incredibly important importance especially in northwest Jutland, but can also get it in the rest of Denmark. If you have to look at the history, it is the case that the previous government never made the socio-economic calculations that it took to make a basis for decision for the Folketing so very disappointingly. The new government, which has now arrived, has so quickly set these calculations in motion, and it has also been ensured that the parties involved who are interested in this area have been involved in those calculations. We expect to have them as soon as we have a basis on which to decide. I have also noted that the Socialists are already out of support for the Måbjerg project before we have made this decision. It's okay with me. I can draw a little smile from the fact that you can support it now, just a few months after you have let go of responsibility in the ministerial offices, but that is fine with me. But now this government is doing something about the matter and getting the impact assessments done that are necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211162128	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211162129	We are, of course, fully aware, like the government, that what awaits us on the horizon is that we will have reduction requirements at the high end of the non-quota sectors. That means something has to happen. No one believes that if we say yes to the Måbjergværket and then have a claim of only 35%, hoof, then we have overcrowded the demand with the Måbjergværket. Everyone knows that it will probably be a broad palette of things we need to do. That is why I am glad that the government is making impact calculations, but there will be no jobs in Holstebro. That is why my question is not, who has done what so far, but just: does it also form a parameter so that you do not have to choose the necessarily cheapest solution, but can also choose a decision on conversion that creates jobs in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211162216	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211162217	After all, we have involved both DTU-MEK and Novozymes and other stakeholders in this to get input on what should be taken into account in order to make the most accurate and correct, correct calculations. We will see the result soon, and then both the rapporteur and I can assess whether we think it is thorough enough. However, whether we do the Måbjerg plant or not, we do not expect us to meet the targets imposed by the European Union in the non-quota areas. But we then know neither the target nor the basis for calculation to get there, nor what might be of tools and handles. So it is a little difficult to respond much more precisely to the rapporteur's questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211162310	The next brief remark is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211162314	Thank you. I think there is a little too much talk about how it should be by 2030 when I listen to the rapporteur. With regard to the last one here on how to get more renewable energy in the transport sector, I find it a little disappointing to see that the government apparently does not intend to do anything until 2017 when you know the EU's requirements for 2030. Well, we're about to get 10%. renewable energy in the transport sector by 2020, and that is where the government will wait until 2017 to find out how to deal with it. I think that's way too foot-to-hand. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he does not see any positive aspects in that we managed to use our wind power a little better in Denmark, instead of approx. A quarter of our wind power in periods is exported at too low a price if not there will be some means in Denmark here and now that we could put in place to get more power in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211162416	Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211162417	Yes, we certainly see a greater potential for better use of electricity on a wider scale. That is also why I look forward very much to the subsidy and tax analysis that has been awaited for a long time, but as the Minister has promised he will present as much as he can as soon as possible, and then we can have a qualified discussion of what we can do and what we can take of initiatives. But this is going to be a very big discussion and discussion, and we cannot just talk about renewable energy for the transport sector alone. It will be a very big debate on the overall energy and tax structure we have in Denmark, because we have, of course, the slightly negative reality that we have formed such a dependency on the many taxes we get into the energy sector, so this conversion is not just something we do with a fingertips. When we get 40-50 billion. kr. We are therefore also talking about many other areas of our core welfare. Therefore, it is not just a question of whether you think it is a good idea to have more wind in the transport sector, for example.; that level simply cannot be kept on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211162538	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211162540	I am very much looking forward to that debate, because it could be that it could show that there is therefore no provision for tax relief, while at the same time making this adjustment of taxes. It's gonna be an exciting process. I could hear that the rapporteur, like him, was aware that Denmark is a small player when it comes to solving the problems of the whole planet, but I think we should focus on Denmark being a great player in delivering some solutions. What we have achieved on the windmill side is the export adventure that we must have to propagate to other topics, for example. export of Danish energy technology • how to control the whole system. I would like to know if the rapporteur does not see those perspectives.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211162622	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211162624	Indeed, I am very much in agreement with the rapporteur. That is why it has also been changing governments' strategy to support business promotion on energy technology throughout the world, and we have incredibly good experiences with it. After all, I am only pleased that the current government, with the Minister in the lead, is continuing the great work in which we have last been down to deliver some amazing and excellent results in China. It is clear that this is obviously something that must continue, because that is precisely what can help both to create a good socio-economic case for Denmark, while at the same time helping to support a green transition in an appropriate way, which is not such a ban strategy, but a strategy where energy efficiency is achieved, and that is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211162717	Thank you, sir. Thomas Danielsen from the Left. And then we welcome Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding from the Enhedslisten as the next rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211162726	Thank you. COP21 has in many ways changed the climate policy picture around the world because all the countries of the world have agreed to a commitment to keep the global temperature rise significantly below the 2 degrees. The problem is that right now the global temperature increase is moving with healthy steps towards the 3-4 degrees. Something has to happen. Something has to happen all over the world, and it has to go really fast. This is really very, very good news for Denmark, because we have built up a global leadership in the energy sector for many years. We have managed to show that it is actually possible to achieve really, very far with the switch to renewable energy. Denmark's influence on what can happen in the world should not be underestimated. If we can demonstrate to other countries, to organisations, to governments that it is actually possible to maintain and operate a welfare society, while at the same time converting ourselves to climate neutrality, to a society that does not emit CO2, we must go much further than where we are today. We need to look forward to 2030 and we need to look at those sectors that have not yet delivered much when it comes to greenhouse gas reductions. In other words, we need to tackle transport and agriculture. Here I think the tone of the statement is a little bit awkward, because it seems as if something is not going to happen in those sectors anywhere in the world. I think it is incredibly important that we here in the Danish Parliament recognise the enormous potential and the huge potential that lies in being able to become those who show the rest of the world that this can actually be done in agriculture and also in transport. I believe that if we look forward to 2030 and towards 2040 as it makes sense to do when we talk about climate policy, we will see here that we need to address some more fundamental issues about both agriculture and transport. Then we have to go beyond the lid of manure tanks, and then we have to go beyond a target of 10%. renewable energy in the tank. We must begin to draw the contours of a transport system and a transport sector and an agricultural sector that does not emit CO2 The Government is very happy in the statement with what we have delivered in Denmark. There is reason to be pleased with a great many things, but there are also two very important aspects which the statement unfortunately ignores. One is that while CO2 and that hangs among other things. together with the fact that a great many of the goods we consume in Denmark are produced in China. This means that we have dried a large part of CO2 2 The second is that, although we have reduced the use of fossil fuels in Denmark, we use very much biomass biomass that emits CO2 and it is totally undocumented for very many sources, to what extent it actually resumes as biomass and when it happens. Denmark therefore has a dark figure of about 15 million. It is quite serious, one can say error, we risk drawing, when in this way, because of a black hole in the Kyoto Protocol, we consider the biomass to be completely CO2 On the side of the Enhedslisten, I would like to say that we believe that we must be very ambitious. We in the European Union must press for an increase in the level of ambition in the European Union. And here I am very pleased with the statement by the rapporteur of the Left that this is what we in the Left would like to do, so simply go to the European Union and say that we have to turn up the 2030 target and that we in Denmark are prepared to take on a large part of that commitment. I think that is very positive. But in addition, we should remember that for Denmark, this famous green realism is also very much about seeing the opportunities, to see the potentials of being among the countries of the world that are the longest-promoting not only in energy but also in the sectors ahead, namely transport and agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211163324	We thank Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding. There are no brief comments. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Carsten Bach, who is about to take the podium.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211163340	Thank you very much. And thank you for the statement by the Minister, who gives a good overview of the current issues in the climate debate. To this extent, we agree with the government that Denmark is in a hurry when it comes to CO2 We also agree that action must clearly be closely linked to the EU's overall objective. In other words, there is nothing to be done to ensure that Denmark meets the standards, but not to say that they are sensible. Denmark spends an incredible amount of money on energy policy, which is, of course, the means of achieving the set reduction targets. In our view, too much money is being spent because the high costs help to push the energy-intensive jobs out of Denmark and often to countries that have fewer environmental requirements than those we have at home. Yesterday I had the opportunity to be with the Committee on the Environment and Food on a small study trip to a few companies locally in the Copenhagen area, and it was among other things. mentioned that the high energy taxes at home are responsible for a very low level of investment for Danish food companies. It is at the heart of the Liberal Alliance that we stop discussing climate policy as if we are living on a deserted island, because what helps us to boast of some huge and expensive reductions at home if the CO2 Liberal Alliance also believes that we should move away from a top-down energy policy based on planned economic principles. We can never predict the development of technology here from the Folketing, and the legislation will therefore always lag behind, with the result that we will be supporting energy sources that are not cost-effective. After all, we are all aware of how the solar cells have fallen drastically in price and that we have had to change the legislation in the area 3-4 times, while the money is fucked out of the treasury. As recently as December last year, the investment drive blew up all the frames due to the high transfer prices and a low installation cost. The biggest shortcoming in the report is in the PSO area, despite the fact that this tax almost constitutes the lifeblood of the support system for the energy policy that is the means of achieving the climate targets. In the Liberal Alliance we simply do not understand that there is no reason to address the huge problem of the legality of the PRS support system. After all, the billions fly out of the pockets of the Danes and into the pockets of the wind industry, without really knowing whether they should be repaid. The Liberal Alliance certainly does not think that it is timely to go into new projects when we do not know the requirements for the permanent regime. All we know is that the amount is increasing and that we have now rounded about 8 billion. kr. Nevertheless, we seem to continue to support new projects, although we can buy cheaper power at 15-20 cents, corresponding to about a quarter of what we guarantee the wind turbines. It is in every way really bad grocery business, as I have also said in a previous debate today. If we really care about a cost-effective climate policy, we should buy CO2 We should stop producing all that power with billions of subsidies to give it away to our neighbors when it blows too much. We have to sell up to a third of the supported power, and the Liberal Alliance has great difficulty in spotting the alleged benefit to the climate. In any case, there are the same quotas and emission permits throughout the EU, no matter how many mills we set up at home. As I said, the real effect would only be there if we destroyed the quotas, but I know that it does not feel quite as good as if people could be persuaded that they have to buy expensive green electricity to save the world. Despite these comments, we agree with the Government's statement as it places emphasis on cost-effectiveness and globalised solutions. Then all we have to do is see how the government will live up to it. We expect that this will happen in the forthcoming energy settlement, where competition postponement will become the guiding principle instead of politically controlled technology development.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211163840	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211163843	After all, the rapporteur mentioned that there were high energy taxes, and so it was understood that this was something that the industry was suffering from. I have asked about these conditions in the autumn of last year and received some answers from the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, who clearly indicates that the energy costs of industry in Denmark are below the EU average. So we actually have an industry that is favoured by low energy taxes, if you look at it overall. It has also been observed, when you go in and look at their accounts, that for a company such as Aalborg Portland, which has been out to whip over some PRS taxes, it is quite a few percent of their profits that go to pay PRS taxes. So it may be that sir... Carsten Bach can sometimes come out and meet some business people who whine over some taxes, but if you look at it from the statistics, there is nothing to whine about. We should therefore be pleased that Denmark has the opportunity to sell products with a green stamp because we have a renewable energy production. I would like to know whether the rapporteur is not aware of the low energy costs for industry in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211163955	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211163956	Thank you for your comment. I also heard the brief remark made by the honourable Member earlier. I have not been aware of exactly the questions raised in committee in the past. I can only note that when I talk to business leaders and companies in Denmark, they say that the PRS tax and the high energy taxes are in general a very big problem in Denmark and that they help to curb investment for these companies. As I said yesterday, there are some companies in the Copenhagen area who have just pointed to energy taxes as being responsible for not investing in increased production in Denmark, and these are the investments that are supposed to create jobs in Denmark and create growth and development in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211164045	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211164046	You can hear something without it being correct. If it is the case that it refers to some things relating to the district heating sector, which could be changed in terms of surplus heat, then it is correct, but if it only refers to electricity charges and electricity costs, it is not at all correct. In his first speech, I heard the rapporteur mention that we are giving power away to our neighbours. Yeah, we do that for 1%. of the current. I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not think it would be reasonable for solutions to be found to use the flow in Denmark in those short periods when we get a very low price for it when we export it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211164125	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211164126	I certainly do not think that we should start burning up electricity at home just because the energy policy currently being conducted means that we are producing electricity at four to five times the price that we can get for it on the market. So no, I think that would be a bad idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211164143	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach and welcomes the next rapporteur for the alternative, Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211164206	First of all, I would also like to thank the Minister for his statement. I will try to put it in a slightly broader context of the Paris Agreement. I cannot really read in the statement that it really takes into account the Paris Agreement, because the Climate Council's report, which I am a little annoyed that we have not been able to get along with it, or for the government's defamation of the level of ambition in climate policy. I hope that we can have a constructive debate here, where we listen and are willing to become wiser, because global climate change is the biggest challenge in our time and something that requires broad cooperation in the Folketing as well as in the whole world. I am pleased that the Minister speaks in his speech and statement about the Paris Agreement, but I regret that he does not draw the conclusion of the historic global climate agreement, namely that the world has agreed that we must work to keep global warming below 1.5 degrees and that a long-term objective of net zero greenhouse gas emissions in the second half of the century will have profound consequences for Danish and European climate policy. We really need to turn our ambitions up now. If we are to have just 50% chance of limiting the temperature increase to 1.5 degrees, according to the UN climate panel, the world must reach net zero greenhouse gas emissions between 2060 and 2080 and, by 2050 at the latest, have phased out CO2 Here, the rich countries with the greatest historical responsibility and capacity to adapt naturally have to take the lead and reduce significantly faster. It can also be argued that the 50 per cent chance of limiting the temperature rise to 1.5 degrees does not adequately meet the agreement's goal of pursuing 1.5 degrees. In such cases, the requirements are inter alia: to Denmark and the EU even bigger. So I had hoped that the Minister would not only mention the Paris Agreement but also draw the necessary conclusions from it, namely that we are really in a hurry now, including in Denmark. The Paris agreement in December is a turning point, but at the same time a gun to the head, one might say. For the first time in the history of the world, we agree on where we are going and now we have to act according to the best possible science. The task now will be to ensure that we reach the goal in time. Therefore, a Danish effort that is more persistent than before is absolutely crucial. At home, we need to make a sound inventory of our greenhouse gases and address all our emissions, including, among other things. land use and biomass. As is now the case in Denmark and the EU, we should not consider biomass as CO2 unsustainable biomass to be the limited resource it is and we should only use the share we can in an environmentally sound way. Politically, when we have to agree to address all our emissions, that is because today we are only looking at them from a national perspective, while the truth is that our behaviour and consumption are associated with large emissions worldwide. That is why ambitious and real reduction targets are needed for both 2020, 2025 and 2030, and that is why, unfortunately, a reduction target of 55 by 2030 is not good enough, which is something some people are currently talking about when this does not include our real emissions in terms of land use, biomass and the fact that the vast majority of the goods we surround have been produced abroad. COP21 was the necessary proof that the world can find common solutions to cross-border problems, but also an agreement without the most necessary figures and dates. However, as we understand the Paris Agreement, these figures and dates are implicit in the text. If we are to stop climate change before we reach 1.5 degrees global warming, science tells us that we are in a hurry and we have already exceeded 1 degree. The diplomats did their job in Paris, and it is now up to us politicians, businessmen, researchers and the whole of civil society to start our task. Now we have the political and legal framework and the common global vision to navigate from, and COP21 should thus be the start of an era where the green transition is really the premise, we measure everything up against politics, business, welfare and everyday life. The Paris Agreement requires us to think about climate and environmental considerations in all our policies in the future, while the government has, unfortunately, so far done exactly the opposite. We saw that, among other things. in the 2016 Finance Act and in the Government's agricultural package, which is on its way. According to the International Energy Agency, current national climate plans that have been signed up to the UN will invest USD 13.5 trillion in energy efficiency improvement and low carbon technologies from today until 2030. The amount is enormous, but it is not even close to what really needs to be done. For as we have heard many times before, during and after COP21, the current climate plans will not bring us to the goal. It is only the foundation from which ambition must grow. And it has to be quick. There is no room for complacency after COP21. There is no place for the bend, because some people have the wrong idea that we in Denmark should be number one. Denmark's climate action is not unique in an international context. After analysing our climate action in relation to the surrounding countries, the Climate Council concluded that Denmark is not a climate duk. But it can still be achieved to get ahead again. The choice we face after COP21 is clear. Will the Danish Government keep up with the new developments or continue the course of almost ignoring the green future that is increasingly insisting on banks? In the alternative, we do not believe that the green agenda should be a marking match, even in the opposition. Cooperation on conversion must be as deep and comprehensive as ever. This requires a great deal of us, and it also requires us to tackle where it hurts: in agriculture, in transport, in consumption itself. Here we have great challenges ahead of us. The sooner we get started, the better. In 2016, we need to have a serious debate on how future agriculture will be sustainable on all three bottom lines: social, economic and environmental. We must start electrifying and making the whole transport sector more efficient while, in relation to our consumption, we must dare to take the political debate on how each of us lives more climate-friendly. In the near future, there is only room for each of us to emit less than 12%. of the CO2 A climate footprint of thus less than one eighth of what we have today may sound unrealistic to many. Living climate - friendly may seem hopeless and boring. It has not so far been a political win to tell people that we have to change radically in our everyday lives. But just because large parts of the established political system do not dare to debate it does not mean that it should not be taken, perhaps on the contrary. In the alternative, we believe that a climate-friendly society makes life qualitatively better. We believe in new ways of being together and new ways of being where material consumption takes up less and where what makes sense fills up more. We believe that the time has come for a serious renegotiation of the way in which we perceive prosperity and prosperity. We need new political strategies and we need to start debating what comes after the version of capitalism that we know today. The climate crisis is just one proof that our economic system has failed. The obligation to act against this challenge should permeate all political debates. In concrete terms, we need to adapt all of the sectors of society and set ourselves reduction targets that take account of our real emissions corresponding to the task that then meets the needs. The Paris Agreement raised the global level of ambition, and it should be clear to all of us that much more needs to be done if the objective is to be achieved. There is therefore both an expectation and a need for rich countries to take the lead and clearly signal a willingness to respond to the agreement. This will increase the likelihood that other countries will follow suit. This is the kind of post-Paris torque that is essential for us to maintain the possibility of reducing temperature increases to as far as 2 degrees as we possibly can. I hope we can have a constructive debate on this today, in other words how we can do what we have to do at home in order to fulfil our global responsibility here after COP21.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211165122	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. There are no brief comments. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211165135	In the Radical Left, we think that this statement is extremely marked by the fact that the government does not have so many ambitions in the area of climate change, either in Denmark, the European Union or internationally. We find this very depressing, bearing in mind that it was only a few months ago that world leaders were sitting in Paris trying to take responsibility and make plans for how the world community should deal with the climate challenge. The UN Panel on Climate Change has announced that, in order to avoid excessive temperature increases, greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced by between 40%. 70% and 70%. For the next 35 years. If we are to achieve this, I think we are a little more busy than the ambitions set out in this statement. Denmark has been a pioneer country in the climate field for many years, and I am absolutely convinced that it is in Denmark's interest and in our jobs to continue with it. But if we do not start to do something to meet the requirements that we have set ourselves and that the world community has set, then we will not develop new sustainable technologies and solutions that will solve the challenge, but will also create new jobs. The report states that there are as many as 56 000 jobs in the energy sector. Imagine how much that number could grow if you had an offensive policy in this area. As a radical, of course, I very much welcome the fact that the energy sector as such is moving in the right direction and converting to renewable energy, especially wind energy. This is due to the 2012 Green Energy Reconciliation, where we sat in government. We're really proud of that. There are constantly rumors in society that the Left will cut into the energy agreement, start rolling back, start taking out schemes. There must be a strong call from the Radical Left to refrain from, and instead to stick to, the broad agreements that we have a tradition of here in Denmark. We are also very concerned about the government's approach to agriculture. Agriculture is going to fill a lot in our emissions, but you will not really do anything. And you will also try to avoid doing more when negotiating in the European Union. That seems to us to be a mistake, even for agriculture's sake, because the longer it takes to get the transition started, the harder it will be. Overall, the Radical Left believes that what is going in the right direction is what the previous government adopted. On the other hand, there does not really seem to have to be so much new, especially where the shoe is pressed, namely in relation to agriculture and transport. It also looks as if we are going to get into gear in the European Union when discussing new objectives. Those were the words from us in this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211165454	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. This did not give rise to any brief comments, so we shall move on to the SF rapporteur, Mr. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211165503	Thank you. The Paris agreement gave optimism to those of us who want a genuine green conversion of energy production, agriculture and transport. On the part of the SF, however, we do not think that the government's statement is an expression of the government's desire to use the new optimism very much and, as in so many other important areas, it can be said that the government is primarily concerned with safeguarding short-term economic interests and, in particular, some consideration of interests in professions which are particularly close to the Left. It is clear that if all nations now think, as the Left Government has done, there would be little reason for optimism after Paris. As the Minister rightly writes in the report, the share of agriculture and transport in climate pollution from Denmark is increasing. Instead of focusing on climate policy initiatives that ensure that agriculture will contribute positively to the green transition and the reduction of climate gases, the government is instead aiming to race against the bottom with French and southern European agricultural interests. In fact, some of the cheapest instruments for society lie in agriculture. Yes, many of them even make a socio - economic gain. Why, then, should agriculture not contribute? What the Left often says is: Mostly the environment for money. Is this not also the case with the most economically effective instruments available in agriculture? And should it not be an essential criterion that applies to all other professions and sectors? I would like to read one quotation from the statement: 'If the sector remains part of the non-quota sector, there may also be a need to reduce emissions from the agricultural sector in the future. This, compared with the fact that agricultural emissions represent a relatively increasing proportion of total emissions in the non-quota sector, means that it can be difficult to exempt the agricultural sector from having to deliver reductions in the achievement of a high national reduction target for the non-quota sector by 2030. The Commission has put forward various proposals on how to regulate agricultural pollution in the future. The decisive factor for Danish opinion must be that agriculture in Europe, which accounts for most of the EU budget, makes its contribution from a socio-economic point of view. It must also be ensured that the large agricultural lobby in the European Union, but also in Denmark, does not really set the ceiling for reductions in agriculture. That is not what the government is calling for, but that other sectors in Denmark and Europe must stand up for, namely the general heating consumer, other industries, etc. At home, many Sustainable Agriculture, which has been so much in decline in recent days, is considered to be an extreme organisation. I can only agree with them, but I should like to say that sustainable agriculture is not an isolated Danish phenomenon, and perhaps it is in this that the problem is greatest. Nor is it just a Danish phenomenon that there is sometimes a government that is even very responsive to extreme business interests. In the field of transport, action is also needed which points precisely to the opposite of what the government is doing. We should not make expensive, polluting cars cheap, while at the same time quickly turning up the charges on electric cars, as the government has done. And what happened to public transport? In fact, we need to use the requirements for renewable energy in the transport sector, which the European Union has set out, to find prospects. It is the cheapest in the longer term rather than greasy with solutions that can save hands right now. For example: there would really be prospects and jobs in a Danish production of bio-aetanol based on straw, but unfortunately we have a government that, in addition to putting agriculture above society and the climate, also thinks extremely short-sightedly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211165852	Thank you, sir. Jonas Dahl. Nor did it give rise to any brief comments. So we turn to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, who is rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211165901	Thank you. I just need to get the microphone down a little bit; I don't have exactly the same height as the previous one. That's it. Thank you for the good debate that has been going on so far. I think it is very good that we have an opportunity to debate the climate and that we have had this annual climate review. After all, this is the result of the Climate Act voted through in 2014, in which the Conservative People's Party also voted in favour, and we think it is an important initiative. It can be said that the climate debate has now, as it were, filled up quite a lot so far in this parliamentary year, but it has probably, first and foremost because we have had a climate summit which, of course, recorded us all and helped put the climate on the agenda. But we also know that sometimes the climate has to fight a little about attention with the many other important agendas that are also in the world and which, of course, also deserve attention. However, we had a good long debate on climate policy before Christmas, and it is clear that some of what can be said today will be a bit of a repeat of it. It has to be said that in many ways Paris was a turning point. We had a global climate agreement with a great many countries that joined. This was the first time you didn't go for this top-down model, but instead of a bottom-up model, where instead it's based on what the countries sign up on their own through these action plans. It was, so to speak, the good news that many countries have submitted these plans for action and, as the Minister mentioned earlier, it covers a very large part of the emissions that are taking place. Thus the good news. Unfortunately, however, the bad news is that the plans for action that have been submitted are not in any way adequate to the challenge we face. We have a common target for a maximum of 2 degrees temperature increase, preferably not above 11⁄2 degrees, but with the plans that have been entered, I believe that it is called 31⁄2 to 4.8 degrees temperature increases that we should expect. At least that's about on that scale. This underlines that Paris was a good event, but it requires that all parties go home, look themselves in the mirror and consider how to deliver the same ambitious approach that gave the good agreement in Paris. It is important that the revision was written in, and this must be done every five years, so that we make sure that we constantly set new goals and follow up on how things are going. It is also important that this principle of no backsliding was written into the agreement, and it is of course also a principle that Denmark must live up to. We must always take a step in the right direction and never go the wrong way. This leads me to look at Denmark and our efforts at home. There is no doubt that we can easily be proud of Denmark's efforts. We are well advanced when we look at Europe, but also at the whole world. That is good, both because there are jobs in it, but also because hopefully we can help to push other countries in the same direction by taking the lead. I am pleased that before Christmas we managed to get the government to agree to a 2030 target. We have talked a lot about 2020 objectives, but 2030 is in many ways a step towards the common ambition we have for 2050, namely that Denmark should be independent of fossil fuels. That is a fine objective, but we must constantly come closer and flesh out what choices we have to make in order to achieve the common objective we have. Today, a little has also been said about Denmark's role in the European Union. In my optics and in the optics of the Conservative People's Party, Denmark must press in a European context, press for Europe, the European Union, to appear as the ambitious player, who sets high goals for himself and helps pressure others to move faster than what else we are doing right now. So it is important that Denmark is ambitious under European auspices and pushes on there. We know that we have an obligation to deliver 10%. renewable energy in the non-quota sectors by 2020. Here I can regret that we have no more focus on how we achieve that goal, but I have a feeling that it is being postponed a little all the time, and one has to say that it is quite many years since this goal was decided, so Denmark has had many years to get closer to how we would achieve a redemption. So that will be my call from here. We also have our eyes on a 2030 target, which we also know will come at some point, but we must never let it be that we set objectives and look forward in time, a stop-point for making decisions now and here, which is quite necessary. Finally, I would like to say that Danish exports are extremely interesting. I think it was Mr. Social Democrats. Jens Joel, who said it earlier, this whole thing about Paris giving a bigger market. We saw Dansk Energi, Dansk Industri, who went out with his arms raised and saw a huge export potential, but Paris also gave a lot more on the market, who wants to take part in the export adventure that awaits. We are talking about state relocation of jobs and everything else, but I think there are a lot of jobs in maintaining the ambitious profile we have in climate and energy, and these are jobs that are precisely distributed across Denmark, and indeed especially in Jutland. Finally, I would also like to say that we are very, very much looking forward to this tax analysis, which we have now been waiting for for some time now, and which has also become something in many ways that is delaying us to make some necessary decisions on the restructuring of our energy system. Thank you to the Minister for Climate Policy and a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211170525	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211170528	I think I heard the rapporteur say that she would like Denmark's role in the European Union to have an active character and that Denmark should press on. I thought it sounded interesting. It is the case that together we have a green majority outside the government if the Conservatives are involved. So if it is the case that the Conservatives have a little higher ambition than the government, then we in the Enhedslist are very open to a good dialogue on how it can translate into concrete action. And if we were to come up with any idea that we should make a more active effort in the European Union to get more countries to take the lead, then I think it might be exciting. The rapporteur himself pointed out that some agreements had been made on targets of 1.5 degrees global warming, but that what has been signed in is something that will end up being 4-5 degrees. So there is a need for countries to take the lead. I would like to know whether the rapporteur is in favour of us taking initiatives so that Denmark can press the EU for a number of countries to take the lead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211170633	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211170634	I think that the government, with the style that has been shown in this area, has itself made a great deal of emphasis on European cooperation and has emphasized that this is the way we can make changes. That is why I think it is natural and I think it is also in the interest of the government to press for the EU to be more ambitious than it is today. I found it a little difficult during the climate summit to fully sense the European position. Such a little was heard on the water pipes, but sometimes I had the impression that the European Union could have been more ambitious, also in relation to the 1.5-degree target and other things, but I was not in the negotiating room, so I cannot know for sure. But sometimes I was left with a feeling that the EU was a little bit foot-drawn. The Danish Government cannot be blamed for this, but it is clear that we must do what we can to push for it, but there are also many other countries that draw the European Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211170726	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211170727	That was not a very clear answer. As far as having the climate on the agenda is concerned, I think it is extremely important that we do not forget that climate summit and what has been set out by objectives, while at the same time the UN has set out some global objectives which are also aimed at achieving a more sustainable and more inclusive world. I would like to know if the rapporteur can see the outlines of how we could do more in Denmark if we had even better cooperation between municipalities and had municipalities and cities play a part in this transition to a more sustainable society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211170758	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211170759	I can certainly see that. I was also pleased that at least one of our Conservative mayors took part in the climate summit to highlight the role of the municipalities in this. I'm sorry if my answer earlier was a little unclear. My point was that I do not really believe that there is the great contradiction between what the government wants and what the rest of the Danish Parliament wants when it comes to European cooperation, because we fully agree that pressure must be put on. Of course, there may be disagreements about the degree
ParlaMint-DK_20160211170834	To Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211170837	Thank you very much. I am very pleased that the rapporteur mentions the agreement in Paris, because it has, in many ways, set a new climate policy picture for the whole world. I would like to know whether the rapporteur and the Conservative People's Party will help to push for an international burden-sharing calculation to be made as a consequence of this agreement. There is no doubt that the whole world must increase its ambitions. We're going towards 3-4 degrees, we're going to land at 1.5, we're really busy, but what's the big picture here? How much should the EU increase its ambition, and how much should Denmark? You have to get some estimates on that. Was that something that the rapporteur could be involved in?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211170917	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211170919	I do not know whether it is calculations that would make sense to do necessarily under Danish auspices, but it is clear that when it comes to revising the plans every five years under the auspices of the United Nations, I do not think it is satisfactory to continue to see new action plans which conclude that we are quite a long way from the objective we have set ourselves. So it is clear that we have to say there: all right, what burden-sharing must be in order for us to ever reach the goal? But it's just diplomacy when it's finest, because we've based it on this whole bottom-up deal, because it was kind of that or nothing. That was probably the impression we had, so it is about finding a balance between having chosen a bottom-up approach, but that, on the other hand, we have the problem that it is just not enough, so we have to keep pushing for greater ambition in the different countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211171007	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211171009	I agree with that, but we do have a Climate Council that could make calculations for us, and even the Left agrees that we should go to the European Union and press for them to increase their ambition by 2030. Where are we going? Where are we going to be by 2030 to ensure that we deliver our share of the increased ambition, that is, of the reduction path to 1.5 degrees, if I may say so? Because right now it's a little hovering in the wind, and everyone has national action plans. All we can see is that when we add them together, we end up in a completely wrong place, but we have to get our hands on where it is that the different countries have to lie down where it is that the European Union has to lie down. It would be appropriate for us to be involved in this, among other things. Because we have a climate council.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211171053	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211171055	I am very pleased that we have a climate council. I'm not sure that I think this is a task that lies right to their right. I think that there is much else on the climate and energy agenda that they could throw themselves over. Perhaps I am also not so worried that Denmark will deliver our share in relation to the objectives we have set ourselves. I'm pretty sure we'll get there. Frankly, I am somewhat more concerned about some of the superpowers we see in the world, which unfortunately have a long way to go in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211171125	Then it's mr. Jens Joel of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211171127	Thank you. I would like to thank the Conservative rapporteur both for the report today and, of course, also for pushing for the green transition. I also noted with great pleasure that the Conservative President had visited Holstebro and was in favour of the Måbjergværket, which I have mentioned a few times here, and which could provide a great many jobs in the Holstebro area. If we then get the Enhedslisten as the last party in the green majority, then we actually have a plan here that can be implemented. With what I really want to ask the rapporteur, is it acceptable for the Conservatives to agree that this agricultural and transport sector, when we know what will come after 2020, can be a bit of a disservice if we do not start discussing it by 2020, and whether the Conservatives will therefore help to highlight the fact that we need to have a discussion on how we can switch both the transport sector and the agricultural sector by 2020, and that we are already going to start this discussion now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211171233	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211171234	Now I could see Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's face when the rapporteur asked his question, and I must warn him that there is some way to the green majority on this point. However, I can confirm that the Conservative President was visiting and that we certainly see a potential in the project. In relation to the issue of whether or not a disservice is being done, I would like to say that, firstly, I am pleased that the rapporteur uses the term 'disservice'. It is about to get out of the Danish language because people do not understand what it means, but in reality it means that you do not do a favour at all. And I think the rapporteur is right to say that neither agriculture nor the transport sector is doing a service by exempting demands, because we know that there will be demands waiting on the horizon from the European Union. We know that these will be ambitious demands. If we want to do it as cost-effectively as possible, that's the kind of word everyone can use. I think you do them the greatest service by getting started already now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211171328	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211171330	Otherwise, I tried to signal to the President that I was so satisfied with the rapporteur's reply that I do not need any other brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211171338	Understood. Then we would like to thank Mrs Mette Abildgaard for the rapporteur's speech. And the next on the list is the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211171356	Thank you, sir. President-in-Office, for the floor and, above all, thank you for many good speeches. Today's debate on the area of energy and climate, which we have today on the agenda with this question, shows that there is a very, very great commitment in the Folketing about this. I would like to thank you for that. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for the broad cooperation that exists. Despite the differences in this area, Denmark has succeeded in bringing together a broad consensus on climate policy, and I would like to thank the rapporteurs for that. Looking into the big world, and several rapporteurs have done so, one looks first and foremost at the Paris Summit on Climate Change. It was a success that we managed to bring together all the countries of the world for a global climate agreement, but it also shows that there are major challenges. This has also been pointed out in today's debate. The challenges are probably greater beyond Denmark's borders than they are within Denmark's borders. Overall, the Danish CO 2 represents 0.1 per cent. of the world's CO2 And there is Denmark a pioneering country. We need to take advantage of that, we need to exploit it commercially, but it is also linked to challenges. I think there are many who will envy the Danish Parliament when we discuss climate. We can just turn our eyes on the United States. Yesterday, the U.S. Supreme Court overruled the climate plan that the Americans have been working on for a very long time, which is quite crucial in terms of the fact that the world is doing something about this agenda and that we are keeping the temperature rise below 2 degrees. There really is a challenge that is far greater than the one we see in Denmark. I guess there's really reason for this, and so did I, when we talked about it here in the Danish Parliament before Christmas... to pop with the flag on Denmark's behalf. We're really far ahead. We are probably among the countries in the world that are in fact the most advanced in terms of doing something national in this area. We reach 40% of CO2 reduction in 2020 compared to 1990 with the measures already taken by a broad majority in the Folketing. We're gonna make 40 percent. renewable energy by 2020, where the expectation when we entered into the energy agreement in 2012 was that we would reach 34 per cent. So it can be said that on a number of parameters we are very far ahead. So are we when we talk about energy efficiency, energy savings. It is also an area where Denmark is clearly at the forefront. But it is also clear, as I pointed out in my previous speech here today, that there are challenges. There are challenges to this task in the European Union. During the next six months there will be debates in the circle of energy ministers and environmental ministers on how to solve this task, and there is a major task to be solved in relation to achieving the 40% CO2 of CO2 in this context too, there will be a Danish discussion which I would also like to invite the parties of the Danish Parliament today to discuss how we handle, that is, how we manage, that Denmark achieves the ambition and reaches that part of the overall European layer cake in terms of reducing emissions by 40%. in 2030, and how to achieve that ambition in the best possible way. That is also why, in the course of the coming month, the government will finally set up an Energy Commission. After all, it is to see how we handle this task in the best possible way, how we ensure that Denmark achieves the European goals as cost-effectively as possible, without costing Danish jobs and Danish competitiveness. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211171818	There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Jens Joel of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211171822	Thank you. Of course, I would also like to sign for the cooperation we have in general in the field of energy. I am sure that it can be even better in the area of climate change, because there we do not entirely agree on the ambitions. However, I would like to ask what is stated in the report on the agricultural sector, because it is quite clear that this is a larger part of the non-quota sector, and it also says that if the agricultural sector remains part of the non-quota sector, there may also be a need to reduce emissions in the future, and compared with the fact that it is an ever-increasing part, it may be difficult to keep the agricultural sector from having to deliver reductions in meeting the targets. I regret the reading, but my question is in good Danish: is it not because the government expects agriculture to be freed from reduction commitments after 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211171916	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211171917	I don't think that's gonna happen. I think it is quite crucial that we do so in a way that we do not kill Danish agriculture. The agricultural and food sectors are very, very under pressure at the moment. It is absolutely crucial and I also sense this from the rapporteur's question that there is also agreement here in the Danish Parliament that we should organise it here in a way so that it can still be said to have a great deal of Danish food production.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211171944	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211171945	Of course, I very much agree with the Minister on this. After all, when we were in government, we also made a growth plan to ensure that there are still jobs and there are even more in this business, so we are in complete agreement on that part. But if we then agree that something must of course happen, then I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister and the government are willing to enter into a dialogue. Although we may not be forced to make demands before 2020, we can start to engage in a dialogue on how we want to adjust, so that the sector will also have better opportunities to adjust to it and do so in the cheapest way possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172022	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172023	I am quite in favour of this. And we also had a major dialogue meeting at Dalum Agricultural School last Friday, where the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Energy, Supply and Climate, the large nature organisations and others were present, precisely in order to have a dialogue on how to solve the task as intelligently as possible. After all, the task is not necessarily to cut back on agricultural production. The task is more to ensure that we do it as right as possible, use technological solutions, etc. to ensure that we achieve the CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172102	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172110	Now this statement is a little special in that the Climate Council's recommendations, which came out on 26 November, have not been incorporated into the report. That is a shame, because there are many good things in the Climate Council's comments, among others. on the role of biomass in the energy system, where it states: "The current development therefore leads to parts of the energy system being locked in a non-economically appropriate technology for a period of time. These conditions advocate adapting the regulation so that it reflects the real climate impact of biomass and so that biomass is not favoured by the charging system. I think it is a pity that these recommendations have not been drawn into the report submitted to Parliament, and I look forward very much to having these tax analyses where we will then have the opportunity to look at the possibilities of introducing taxes on biomass, because what is happening now is a distortion of the whole system. I would like to hear from the Minister whether there will soon be any proposals on how we can regulate it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172218	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172219	I can say that there are proposals, at least, but whether they are implemented is another matter. But the grant and tax analysis is coming; it is on the stairs, at least large parts of it, and I am counting on it to be in a relatively short space of time. After all, there are ministers before me who have stood on this platform and promised, but I am pushing as much as I can for us to have those analyses on the table, also so that we can have a real political debate on it and so that we know the framework conditions for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172249	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172250	If you look at the statistics included in the Climate Council's first report, it is very clear that it is imports of wood pellets that are booming from there. I find it very disturbing that large investments are being made on the large cogeneration plants, so that district heating is switched to wood pellets, and that at the same time you see that a number of private households choose to replace an oil pine with a wood pellets pine and thus choose a solution that they expect to be able to use for many years. So I think it is urgent to come up with a change in these tax systems. Can the Minister reveal when we will have these tax analyses in the field of biomass?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172329	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172330	The answer is: as soon as possible. I therefore agree that there are challenges in the field of biomass. I just have to say, what's the alternative? After all, biomass replaces coal, so I may find it a little difficult to see how we should find something other than biomass, also in an energy system where we want things to hang together and where we cannot rely on wind alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172357	The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Poll from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172401	Thank you. The Minister himself mentions that many countries may envy the Danish Parliament that we can have such an ambitious debate here, and then I think: should we not show them that they have reason to continue envying us by being ambitious? It makes sense to take the lead. We see growth rates in green energy technology, which exceed everything else, up to 15%, as far as I understand, where normal growth is below 1%. Should we not continue to show that this is the way forward, that we can create a welfare society such as the Danish one while being ambitious in the climate area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172447	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172448	I agree with that, and this is also the line taken by the government, of course, taking account of Danish competitiveness and the continued creation of Danish jobs. But the fact that we have to be at the forefront in this area is something that we fully agree on. It also offers opportunities in a professional way. Exports of energy equipment will increase by up to 50 billion. kr. Towards 2030. At least that's the assessment from Danish Industry. So you can say that Denmark is a pioneering country in this area, and we must continue to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172517	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172519	Yes, but we have heard the business community say that it seems that ambition is being relaxed and that one is considering or reconsidering one's investments in Denmark if that is the way in which ambition falls. Does it not impress the Minister that business is out to say that there is still a need for good, strong ambition to take the lead and that they have seen the line taken by the government as being to relax ambition?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172552	I don't see it that way. On the contrary, I see great respect for Denmark and our level of ambition in the area of climate change. I experience this nationally when I visit Danish companies, and I also experienced this in Paris when we had to implement the climate agreement, namely that there is great respect for Denmark and the level we set.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172613	The next brief remark is from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172617	Thank you. I think the Minister is saying two slightly contradictory things about agriculture. I am very pleased that the Minister recognises that we are not going far towards 2030 and that we are not going anywhere at all towards 2040 • with our climate targets if agriculture does not also deliver significant reductions. At the same time, however, we must take great care of the agriculture we know and the agriculture we have where we produce in the vicinity of 29 million pigs per year. Does the Minister think that we can achieve the long-term objectives of the agricultural sector, which is about to deliver, while maintaining our production unchanged, in relation to what it looks like today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172706	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172707	Yes, I actually have an ambition that we can both develop Danish agriculture and continue to have high production, also like more than 29 million pigs, and at the same time ensure that we do so in a way, so that we also take account of our climate and environment. I have an ambition that we can do this by, among other things. using technological solutions, and therefore I am also in dialogue with Danish agriculture on how we can handle this task in a way that ensures that we both continue to have high production, which is part of the basis of our entire welfare, and at the same time focus on how we do it as energy and climate as well as properly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172744	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172745	At least one thing is certain: pig production is not the basis of our welfare, but let it be. Does the Minister have any idea that there are technological solutions that suggest that we can maintain such a high level of pig production on the longer track, so intensively an agriculture that burns off carbon in the soil and puts it into the atmosphere too full a screw instead of exploiting the potential that agriculture has to do exactly the opposite, namely to draw CO2 So, we have a huge potential here, and yet an agricultural trail is being maintained which is extremely climate-damaging. So, can the Minister see some technological achievements like this on the short track, or is it more such a dream scenario that at some point we have developed some kind of stable where we can lock the pigs in and make sure that nothing escapes from there that can harm the climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172843	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172844	Thank you for the question. I do not share the opinion of the questioner that Danish food production is not the basis for our welfare. There is a billion revenue from this, and I find it difficult to see how we should meet the challenges we face without having it. So I would say that Danish agriculture is, of course, at the forefront of this area in terms of reducing emissions. Over a more than ten-year period, the food sector has managed to reduce emissions of CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172917	Then we thank the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. And the next one is the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Jens Joel of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211172930	Thank you. It is just quite brief on behalf of the questioners for saying thank you for a good debate. Thank you to the Minister for answering questions. Then I think we are all looking forward to having the annual wheel in place next year so that we have the Climate Council's report incorporated into the government's position. And then I look forward to continuing the discussion on the points that have been raised today, including how we ensure that Denmark continues to have the green driver's shirt. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211173001	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, and that is the end of the debate. And the question is closed because there are no proposals for adoption either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160211173014	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 12 February 2016, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
