ParlaMint-DK_20161209100004	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) and Marlene Harpsøe (DF): Request no. F 16 (What initiatives will the Minister take to ensure a reduction in the number of migrant workers studying and receiving SU in Denmark?). Jep Jakobsen (DF) and others: Question No. F 17 (What information can the Minister provide on the problems identified in the care of the elderly, including what steps the government is taking to ensure that the Danes can safely meet their old age?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20161209100034	The debate is open. This is Mrs. Karen J. Klint, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209100057	Thank you. The purpose of today's draft law amending the Marriage Act is to ensure that Danish law does not support the marriage of minors. The bill thus supports a global movement recommended by the UN and many others to ban the marriage of minors. Protecting children from marriage is an important decision, and it is a good thing when the international community is united on this. Child marriages have not been legal in Denmark, but there has been a derogation in the applicable marriage law, so young people under 18 years of age have been allowed to get married. That is why it is also important to discuss what is happening with the derogation in the legislative amendment that we are facing today. Only a very few young people have taken advantage of access to an exemption. So it can look like an easy decision to remove it and thus protect many more children from joining the global movement. Social democracy very much agrees that we must have a general ban on child marriages. But we do have some questions that we will raise during the committee procedure, and I would like to point out to the Minister who, among other things, is here. We are talking about, but we will put them in writing during the committee work. As far as I remember, a young parent who is not 18 years old today becomes an adult when he or she becomes a breadwinner. What happens to the guarantee given to the child by the child's own parents? I do not really see that as described in the proposal. After all, there may also be some other matters that we will be discussing during the committee procedure, because if you become an adult, can an adult be refused marriage? What else do you have authority for? I am also reminded of when the unborn child has two biological parents who are unable to marry or are not married to each other, how we then ensure that the unborn child has inherited the father who has not yet been recognised as a father. On the other hand, you are automatically recognized as a father if you are in a formal relationship. So it may be that we have a few strange questions that we think it is a little important to get the answer to. It is not because we disagree that we should protect and say no to child marriages, but because there are some curls that cannot be there. It is also because some Danish young people make quite good use of the 15-year-old sex age, and it gives pleasure to a great many, but there are also a few children out of it, whereas those we want to protect against child marriages do not take advantage of the sexually low age. In other lands, they use access to child marriages to become sexually active and to enter into a consummated marriage of sexual activity and early births. So we have to look at whether the cultural difference we have is not going to harm Danish young people significantly. It makes sense to ban child marriages. We just need answers to some specific questions. Then there's a little practical thing. By the way, we are very much changing some other draft legislation in the field of faith and in the field of religion. I happen to be the rapporteur on the Committee on Churches on L 30. It has changed its date of entry into force. It's also a bill on marriage law. That amendment shall enter into force until 1 April. Then I think it would be wise if these two legislative proposals, which both relate to changes in the marriage law, were to be synchronised so that they enter into force on the same date, so that we do not have to issue new and revised versions of the marriage law at 2 months intervals.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209100501	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209100508	Thank you for the floor, President. It sounded like the Socialist rapporteur almost, as if approving and accepting this proposal is a tribute to the United Nations. That is not why we think it is a good idea. We are therefore vertically opposed to child brides and to minors marrying in Denmark. This is true whether it is Danes or foreigners. It is clear that it is not a problem with child brides among ordinary Danes. In the past it was associated with shame to have a child outside of marriage, which meant that a couple who were expecting a child could apply for a royal letter, i.e. an exemption, so that one could marry. The same is not true today, which is why it is rare for a couple to avail themselves of this derogation. In other cultures it is a completely different matter at once. In Muslim countries, and in the case of Sharia, the Islamic-religious law complex, there is nothing to prevent very little girls from marrying older men. This is done by reference to Muhammed's example and example, that is, the model that he married Aisha when she was nine years old. According to a story in Berlingske from 17 July 2014, a quarter of all marriages among Syrian refugees in Jordan have been made by children under 18 years of age. Among other things, you hear. About Maha, who married when she was 13. According to a 2009 survey, 1 in 3 girls in developing countries get married as a child. As many Syrian refugees and immigrants from Africa come to Europe and also Denmark at the moment, the problem can actually grow big. It is not because we are going to have an immigration discussion here, but it can grow very large. And that's why there's good reason to tighten up the laws on marriage. We warmly support the proposal on the grounds that, in our view, we must, of course, have the authority to marry with the maturity needed to understand the consequences of a marriage. It is not because we are against marriage, on the contrary. We are warm supporters of marriage and therefore it is important that the parties involved are aware of what they are in favour of. So we say yes from here. However, there is something I would like to ask, because I think it is becoming more unclear whether we accept and how far we go in the acceptance of marriages by minors who come from outside and to Denmark. How far does the acceptance of those marriages go? I would like the Minister to answer that in more detail, even if the answer has been given in principle. I would then like to express a profound surprise at the fact that people with European citizenship are exempt from the provisions of the law and, in some cases, therefore, can enter into marriage as minors. I think that is grotesque and absurd. This is done on the basis of the free movement of workers. It is therefore more important than the fact that minors do not get married. I think that is absurd. Then I would also say that citizenship of the Union does not actually apply in Denmark and that the concern for people weighs more heavily than consideration for things and labour, but that is how many absurdities there are when it comes to the European Union. I would like the Minister to respond more specifically to that. I would also like an answer to what happens, for example, to an imam who marries two people, one of whom is a minor. What happens to him? Will the imam be prosecuted and lose its wedding authority? I would like an answer to that. With these questions, I would say that we support the proposal, but we would like answers to the questions that have been asked. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209100927	There is a question from Mrs Karen J. Klint, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209100931	Thank you. It is now more of a comment, because I thought it sounded like Mr. Christian Langballe suggested that the Social Democratic Party does not wholeheartedly oppose child bride, but we do. We wholeheartedly support the ban on child marriage. We are simply saying that, in relation to Danish legislation and to Danish young people, there are some questions that we need answers to, just as the rapporteur also has some questions that need to be answered in committee. So it is not really a question, but rather a comment that it is a little important that we help each other to get answers to all the questions that each of us remembers when we read a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209101013	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209101014	I would say that my comment was, in fact, an ironic comment on the fact that the rapporteur made a great deal of use of the fact that, if you said yes to this proposal, you would be part of a global movement. Maybe I thought that was getting straight up. The reason why we support this proposal is not that it has come from the United Nations system; it is that we think it is sensible. It was said with a glimpse in the eye. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209101042	Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209101043	That then makes me say that such an irony does not really appear when you read the minutes of the debate here. You can't see the glimpse in your eye. I would also like to point out that the rapporteur himself was very global in his comparisons with child marriages in other countries, so I think that we are quite equal and that we are quite in agreement. So let us not dig ditches where we agree, but let us stand together to get Danish legislation to protect all young people, whether they come here as refugees or born here. We must oppose child marriages all we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209101120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209101121	Then I think we had the ironic remark torn out, so that for posterity it is quite clear what was meant by it. And then I would say that I am not global, but I have a clear recognition that the immigration that we have warned against all the years and that we have been coming to Denmark also means that there will be a completely different marriage culture, which we believe places the woman in slave-like conditions. That is why it is clear that we must also make legislation which states that Danish culture and Danish standards apply. That's why this bill is good too.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209101205	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209101213	For the Left, the draft law here is primarily about the protection of children and young people. With the proposal, the government removes the possibility of exemption from the age requirement in the event of marriage, and then the government proposes that in future we do not recognise marriages with minors entered into abroad • the so-called child bride, but I will come back to that. The age of marriage in Denmark will instead follow the general age of authority, i.e. 18 years, and we do so in order to ensure that persons who have to enter into marriage are mature enough to make such an important decision. The change here should be sound logic, and I do not think it is particularly controversial to ask that both parties should be 18 years old in order to marry in Denmark. Marriage is something of great importance that requires maturity, and that maturity comes, as in many other relationships of life, first with age. That is precisely why we have the general age of authority, and it can be used here very well. The bill must also be seen in the light of the cases we have seen in the media about so-called child brides. And I think that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party outlined this very well. In some cases we have seen cases of very, very young girls who have been married to men who were significantly older than themselves. It is a culture that lies light years from the Danish. With this bill, we make it a hundred percent that it is not something that we can accept in Denmark. In addition to what the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party said, I myself have also experienced in Afghanistan girls as young as 12-13-14 years of age who have married far, far older men. That is absolutely absurd. Now that, unfortunately, we are in a situation where there has been an excessive influx from, among other things. Such countries to Denmark, we have to make it a hundred percent that this is not something we can accept in Denmark. At the same time, of course, I respect the fact that we have international obligations. There may be a few cases where there may be a marriage that has not been entered into under compulsion and where there are some children that must also be taken into account. Therefore, there may be compelling reasons why a marriage can be recognised in exceptional cases. I would like to conclude by saying that I am pleased that we are now getting more up-to-date legislation in this area. That is why I have to say that the Left supports the proposal. And I should say from the Conservative People's Party that so do they.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209101437	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209101453	The overall purpose of this bill is to ensure that Danish law does not support the marriage of minors. Of course, in the Enhedslisten, we strongly reject child bride and child marriages, as they violate the rights of children, girls and women in all respects. Child marriages and teen pregnancy are a serious threat to the sexual and reproductive health of girls worldwide, as well as maintaining millions of girls and women in poverty and illiteracy. For the same reason, it is also the case that the United Nations and a number of other international actors in this area condemn it and fight it intensively. However, this draft law and this issue cannot be seen in isolation; it must be seen in an international context and should also be included in a Danish context, including the scale of the problem, and this should be seen in the light of the flows of refugees and refugee policy in a European context and, above all, in a social and psychological context in relation to the consequences of breaking up marriages and separating the parties, by removing the requirement for exemption altogether in future. The problem of child abuse is a good example of a problem which, in the view of the Enhedslisten, is not solved by coercion and legal constraints, but by dialogue and information on other options and ways, if the minor party so wishes. In addition, it is also the view of the Enhedslisten, which several of the consultation responses also state that the existing legislation, for example. social law and criminal law, provide protection for minors who need it. There are a number of consultation responses given in connection with the legislative proposal. Only in relation to 2.1, which relates to the abolition of the possibility of exemption from age requirements in the event of marriage, is there a consultation answer from the Council of Lawyers, which points out that among other things: single cohabitants have not been mutually inherited and that minors cannot establish wills. In other words, if you want to help child bride or minor, at least the opposite is achieved with this bill, in that you give them a lower legal position with the bill. The Children's Council, which is worth listening to in this context, writes that a derogation from the age requirement takes into account cases where there are good reasons for dispensing, if this is in the interest of the minor, and by abolishing the possibility of dispensing, the possibility for the authorities to make an assessment of what is in the interest of the minor in the particular case, and the Children's Council cannot therefore support the proposal. Danske Lawyers and Danish Family Attorneys write that the legislation in force provides adequate protection for minors and that there will continue to be a need for exemption, since unmarried cohabitants do not enjoy the same protection as spouses in relation to inheritance, support and settlement. This bill puts the people that the bill claims to want to help worse than the situation is today. Then there is the question of recognition of foreign marriages, and there we also have a number of interesting consultation answers. The Children's Council again writes that it can create inappropriate consequences for minors who have entered into marriage abroad, since under the general rule the minors will be separated from their spouses in the asylum centres and probably categorized as unaccompanied if the marriage is not recognised. It should therefore be possible to recognise the marriage if the couple is pregnant or has a child or has such an association that their family life is worthy of protection. And the Children's Council also states that the minor's view of marriage must weigh heavily in assessing whether it can be recognised and must be clarified by a personal interview. And the Children's Council cannot therefore support the proposal either. Danske Lawyers and Danish Family Attorneys believe, in relation to 2.2, which deals with the recognition of foreign marriages, that non-recognition of foreign marriages will have the opposite effect than the intention of the law, since a minor who has married abroad and moves to Denmark with his or her spouse will not enjoy the rights that apply to spouses. In terms of experience, more will not remarriage, considering themselves to be spouses already. If this draft law has an intention to help minors, then it has to be said that with the consultation answers we see, it is at least the opposite that is going to happen. The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209102005	Sir. Christian Langballe with a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209102008	But is it not marvelous to support barbarism in the name of tolerance? I think that's amazing. So, forced marriages and all sorts of things going on in different cultures... that barbarism is Enhedslisten so out to support. I simply do not understand that. I do not understand the argument, nor do I understand the arguments of either the Children's Council or the Lawyer's Council on the fact that there are people who may have been forced into a marriage and that they are now saying that this can be allowed for the sake of the minor. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-DK_20161209102045	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209102046	This is a really difficult problem, because marriage to minors is something that we must work against; it is something that must be combated; it is something that must be condemned. So does the UN. But what are we going to do in cases where it is still happening where there are some minors getting married? Why, then, should we place them at a disadvantage and give them less rights and thus weaken their legal position? That's what it's really about. It is about whether we should do what works, what gives the strongest legal position for minors, or should we not, because, as the Danish People's Party, we want to send a certain political signal about people with a certain religious attitude?
ParlaMint-DK_20161209102137	Here you go, sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209102139	I understand that, in the name of tolerance, barbarism is supported. When I am in favour of this proposal, it is because I think it is right and proper that this is the way it is in this country. The people who are in this country must follow Danish legislation. We can then begin to be ideological about the need to take account of the legal situation of child-briders and all sorts of other things. I just want to say that most of the girls there have probably been forced to marry in advance. I simply do not understand the concern. For me, it is not a question of sending a signal; it is a question of what is right and what is right. And it is right and proper that one should be of age to enter into marriage. Done, done.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209102221	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209102223	After all, we have legislation today, and that is what this bill will then change into another legislation, which must then, of course, be complied with. That goes without saying. If the questioner had listened to my rapporteur's speech, the questioner would also have listened to what Enhedslisten's position is on child bride. The questioner would also have listened to the fact that this bill would put those children at a disadvantage than they are today. It is simply a question of taking a concrete approach to the fact that some people, some children, have got married and why should they be put at a disadvantage with this bill when it is adopted than they are today? Enhedslisten doesn't understand. We want the interests of minors to be protected. We do not want them to be placed in a worse position than they are today, and the bill will do so. It will be voted through and it will be voted through with the votes of the Danish People's Party, and that is a shame.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209102322	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Danny K. Malkowski, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209102332	Thank you very much. In the Liberal Alliance, we think it is sensible that people should be of age in order to enter into marriage and that they should not, as a starting point, recognise a minor's foreign marriage. That is why we are also in favour of abolishing the existing rather broad derogation and replacing it with the wording: If there are compelling reasons for this, the marriage shall be recognised and the parties shall be placed in an unfair situation if the marriage is not recognised. The bill also abolishes Section 2 of the current Marriage Act, which says: "Whoever is under 18 years of age and has not previously been married must not enter into marriage without the consent of the parents. We do not believe that parental consent should be decisive, but only that both parties should be of age. At the same time, the fee is increased to get recognition of your foreign marriage in Denmark from DKK 500. for 850 kroner. The 850 kroner. is at 2017 level and follows price and wage developments. The fee of 500 DKK. was adopted in 1990 and has not been regulated since. The municipalities state that the cost of dealing with the cases today exceeds 500 DKK. That is why we also think it is good to ensure that the fee covers the costs. Against this background, we can also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209102437	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209102444	Thank you. In the alternative, we also strongly disapprove of child marriages. Nevertheless, especially because of the first two points we are opposed to this draft law. The first point will set the age limit for marriage at 18 years. We do not really think that is necessary. There are approx. six cases per year in Denmark where a marriage is concluded between a person who is not of age and a person who is of age. And the number is falling as far as I can understand. It could be a 17-year-old man and a 21-year-old woman. It can, for example, be done. if the woman has become pregnant and you want to marry for the rights of the marriage, in relation to having a child together. In such a situation, both the people, the parents and the municipal authorities are involved, and if they agree, they can obtain an exemption and the marriage can be recognised and the young people can get married. In fact, in the alternative, we regard it as a weakening of the legal position of minors if we cannot get married in such a situation where there are several parties, including the parents and the authorities, who believe that it is right to do so. We have a system right now, when you're judging the case, and if there's not a good reason, then you can prevent marriage. The second point concerns marriages concluded abroad, of people who are not of age, and this is not recognised in Denmark. In other words, you will automatically have your marriage cancelled if one of the spouses is not of age, and that is whether or not you have children. This means that a 17-year-old mother risks obtaining status, as far as we can see, as an unaccompanied refugee child, even though she is married to the children's father. I am particularly sensitive to the major concerns of both the Red Cross and the Children's Council in the hearings, which I do not think can be ignored. However, it is important for us that it is two organisations which generally want the best for children and which speak out here. Here, in the alternative, we are particularly aware of the fact that minors, that is. people from 15 to 18 years of age should not be in a situation where they are forced to be in a marriage with someone they have not chosen, for example. with a much older partner. No human being should be in a marriage in which they are forced to be in. And in Denmark, we do not already recognize such marriages. We therefore have a system in which we carefully assess the individual case. This is an area full of gray areas and shades. In some cases these are extremely problematic cases, cases which must be condemned and which must be rejected and which must not be allowed to continue. But there are also situations where an infant and an adult will each other. They want to be together because it's right for them. That is why it is so extremely important that we have a very individual assessment. That is the right system to have, and we see no reason to abolish it. If we turn the annulment of marriage into an automatic, we will tear apart families who have fled with their lives at stake and with their children on their backs. Here, then, we must continue to recognise the good marriages where the children's mother and father stand together to bring themselves and their children through what is probably their life's greatest crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209102747	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party, with a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209102753	I can of course say, as I said to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, that I do not actually understand the position. The reason why this is coming up is undoubtedly that in Europe and in Denmark there has been an immigration involving some cultural and religious standards, which are very, very far away from the Danish ones, i.e. after Muhammed's example. can enter into marriages with children as young as 9 years of age because Aisha was 9 years old. It is, of course, such a case-law that has been enshrined in Islamic culture. Then I just find it very strange that we are trying to do this to say no to the defence of the legal position of children. I simply cannot see that. There's a grey area out there, that's absolutely right. Because there are children who are forced to marry. There are children who live in some conditions which are very far away from how other people live in Denmark because they live in parallel societies. I think that this law simply confirms what is right and fair in relation to common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209102905	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209102908	Well, I can acknowledge a great deal of the rapporteur's concern about this, but as far as I can see, we can not recognise marriages where there are child brides or where there is talk of seeing a 15-year-old girl marrying a 60-year-old man. We can do that. We have those tools.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209102929	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209102931	I just think the matter is taken into account that this is a fundamental emphasis on the fact that Danish law and Danish norms apply in Denmark. And I would also like to say that we are now talking about minors. We might as well talk about underage girls, for these marriages are simply a testament to the position and status of women in these societies, where, at least in some cases, she lives in almost slave-like relationships with her husband. I just think that, in the name of tolerance, we are advocating barbarism, and I just do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209103013	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209103014	I do not like the type of rhetoric with barbarism, etc. Well, no one in this room wants to recognise child bride, and nobody will. So I think it will be a rhetoric that will be symbolic and I do not really see what it is about. Because that's not what we want in the alternative. We're just saying that we have the opportunity not to recognise marriages where we think it looks like a girl has married a man who, for example, has been married. is much older. We have that opportunity. We're using that opportunity. And it might be interesting to look at the seams, how often it is used and whether it is used correctly. But that is why we think it is so symbolic and unnecessary to tighten this law further.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209103103	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209103112	Thank you. I'm gonna have to get this shit a little further down so I can see over the edge. The overall purpose of the bill we are debating today is to ensure that Danish law does not support the marriage of minors, and this is an objective which the Radical Left can well endorse. The age limit is 18 years in Denmark and no dispensation can be made. The age of marriage thus follows the age of majority. There is a lot of sense in that as a principle. We do not need to recognise child brides in Denmark, and I do not think we should do that either, but on the other hand I believe that in a society like the Danish one it is entirely beside the fact that we do not have a derogation in marriage law on a fundamental level. Today we feel that 15 years is the limit, because it is the age of sex. There is a certain logic in that. There are a number of guidelines which I think are quite reasonable for exemption in marriages, one of which is between 15 and 18 years old. These are guidelines that the municipalities use. I simply cannot imagine that one should have such a rigid system that one cannot have any scope for exemption. I also recognise that the consultation answers give a great deal of opportunity to discuss exemptions, and the consultation process has just been created so that we can have a greater knowledge than the one we each have in the Folketing and can hear the expert opinion on a matter. Therefore, the Radical Left will work during the committee procedure to find reasonable exemptions, but of course work for what is generally the aim, namely that minors do not enter into marriage, i.e. that child bride is not accepted in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209103309	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209103318	In the SF we are opposed to children entering into marriages, and we are particularly opposed to forced marriages where, for various reasons, a minor is part of a forced relationship with an adult. We must combat this for the sake of equality and for the sake of minors. The legislative proposal we are discussing today addresses these issues, but it is a dilemmaal legislative proposal and I am concerned about a number of elements. Some of the questions have been put by the Socialist rapporteur and also by other rapporteurs, and those questions are very relevant to have answered in committee, otherwise we risk putting minors at a disadvantage with this legislation. I am particularly concerned about the wording of the draft law which deals with the complete abolition of the possibility of exemption from the age requirement of 18 years, unless there are very compelling circumstances. It is very unclear to me what they might be. As the law has been set up today, as several have also mentioned, one must be at the age of 18 and thus be of age to enter into marriage, but in special cases there is the possibility of obtaining an exemption, so that if one is between 15 and 18 years old, one can also be recognised as a marriage. A serious reason for my concern must be found in the consideration of the minor • a concern also expressed by the Children's Council in their hearing response. There may be specific cases where there will be good reason to recognise the marriage precisely in order to protect the best interests of the minor. At the same time, abolishing the possibility of exemption completely prevents the authorities from carrying out this specific assessment, and this can have major consequences for the social life of the minor and can also lead to serious mental ill-treatment. Another challenge in abolishing the derogation is the current legislation and case law in this area today. Danish Family Attorneys consider that the legislation in force provides adequate protection for minors and that there will continue to be a need for a derogation, since unmarried cohabitants are not protected on an equal footing with spouses when it comes to questions such as: Inherited. When it comes to the recognition of foreign marriages, the authorities today have a number of far-reaching opportunities to estimate and assess whether a minor is forced into a marriage and whether the minor does not want to be in marriage. A marriage in which the parties are under 15 years of age and thus during the sexually low age is never recognised in Denmark. Today, therefore, there is a great deal of protection for the interests of minors, which I fear will be removed by the absolute abolition of exemptions. There are so many grey areas and potential consequences and unanswered questions that need to be answered before we in the SF can finally take a position on this bill. Who, for example, is granted a derogation today from the age requirement of 18 years? What are the reasons for the authorities in the specific cases? And how is this in line with the case law in force in this area? I propose that a number of relevant experts be involved in the committee's proceedings in family law and marriage law, which can help clarify these issues. Following on from this, I would like us to look at the possibility of retaining the derogation in committee as well. Is there a need for the rules to be tightened up in some specific areas, and what are the real consequences of absolute abolition? Finally, I would like to propose that it be examined whether there is a possibility of implementing targeted and special social education support for minors who are in danger of not having their marriages recognised in the future. I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209103710	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments, and we turn to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209103724	Thank you, President, and thank the rapporteurs for a good debate. The question of whether minors should be able to marry divides the waters, and I think that was also the expectation. There are those who think that this is a symbolic proposal bordering on the unnecessary, and then there are those who think that child brides should be banned because the authorities should not stamp marriages between people under 18 years of age. I do not agree that this is just symbolic and unnecessary. I believe, in fact, that the age of marriage should follow the general age of authority, because the conclusion of a marriage is reserved for adults, legal persons who make such a big decision themselves. I would also just like to add that the possibility of getting married as a minor comes from a completely different time, namely a time when marriage had a different meaning in society here in Denmark, both socially and culturally, and where you would prefer to have only children in marriage, but also a time when marriage had a practical significance in terms of housing. However, times change, and fortunately for that, and it can be seen, that very few exceptions are being granted today, just as our legislation today also gives unmarried cohabitants the same rights to a large extent. However, the government believes that the time has come to send out a clear signal that marriage is reserved for adults, and therefore the marriage age must be fixed at the age of 18. The government also does not want Danish authorities to stamp out marriages made abroad by minors, and it should therefore also naturally be the case that we in Denmark do not recognise such marriages, unlike today, where there is almost automatic recognition. Only where a failure to recognise the marriage would put the parties in an unreasonable situation can marriage be recognised exceptionally, and this is therefore a very, very narrow exception, I must stress. It may be, for example, if one of the parties dies and it is not possible in any other way to secure the surviving spouse or joint children. The legislative proposal is also in line with our international commitments, and I must of course also say that I am glad that, as the Liberal Alliance has also said, the bill responds to a request from the municipalities that the fee be increased so that it corresponds to the general price and wage developments. Finally, when Enhedslisten's rapporteur says that family life is worthy of protection, I have to say that the life of the young underage girl is also worthy of protection. And I am also obliged to say, when the alternative says that we are tearing the family's lives apart, that we are also tearing the forced married girls away from an older spouse, and I think that makes sense. Then there are also some specific questions that are being asked, among others. by Mrs Karen J. Klint and the Social Democratic Party, who are concerned with how to ensure the unborn child. Well, outside of marriage, of course, a fatherhood must be recognised, and in marriage it happens automatically, so it's the rules of paternity, and it won't actually affect this. Then I get a question from Mr. Christian Langballe about what happens in criminal law to imams who are underage, and it is of course the Minister of Justice who answers that. Another question is how far one will go in accepting who is covered by the rules and who is not. There we have to say that citizens from third countries will experience a ban, whereas, as we are bound by our EU rules, in relation to EU citizens coming to Denmark who are minors and married, I hardly see that there should be anyone at all or that it should be possible to do so, of course, is a particular issue. However, thank you for the debate and thank you for the statements of opinion. I am, of course, at the committee's disposal for any questions the committee may have.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209104131	Thank you. There's a few comments, first it's sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209104135	I think we agree on a lot, so this is really just a little corner. I find it strange and absurd that, in the name of citizenship of the Union and the free movement of workers, child brides must be tolerated. Actually, I have to say, I don't understand. In other words, if you come from a third country, it is unacceptable in relation to Danish law, but if you have European citizenship it is acceptable. I don't understand. I would like to remind you that we in Denmark are not actually involved in European citizenship. This does not apply in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209104225	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209104227	I therefore share the rapporteur's view that it is absurd that it is precisely the free movement of workers, but that is how we have committed ourselves. The situation we are talking about is that, if there is a minor girl who is an EU citizen, from another country to Denmark and in a marriage, you have to recognise it. I am very doubtful about whether there is anyone at all, but I can easily see the absurdity that this has to do with the free movement of workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209104305	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209104306	This is then just a personal comment, because I have actually been in favour of the free movement of workers, but if it can be used as an argument for all sorts of strange things, among others. I think it's absurd.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209104321	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209104322	There is nothing more for me to add than that it comes under this, and it will be the free movement of workers, and it may sound strange. So, what we are doing now with this proposal is, after all, cutting citizens coming from third countries from the possibility of it and that is where the problem is at hand, and that means that we are putting a thick and bold line under the fact that we will not accept child bride in Denmark. I think that's the most important signal we can send with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209104355	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209104358	Thank you. Now it is the case that if there comes a married couple from a third country, an old man and a young girl, then we can not recognise it. If, then, there is a 17-year-old woman and a 21-year-old man who has fled together and who is married, and it actually turns out on many parameters that it would be best for them to stay together, why should we with this bill renounce the opportunity to allow them to stay together in their marriage if it is right for them and possibly for the children?
ParlaMint-DK_20161209104436	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209104437	Because it's not the right thing to stay together. Well, I do not buy the premise that family life is worthy of protection here and must be exalted. I simply believe that consideration for the young girl must be absolutely crucial. It is absolutely crucial that we, as authority in Denmark, do not blue stamp child brides. And when both the Alternative and Enhedslisten say that you go in and make a single assessment, I would say: let's just see it as it is, namely that it has been an automatic reaction that you have approved child bride until quite recently. And that is totally unacceptable. I mean, I miss a little bit in the debate from those who do not support the bill, that you come up with some solutions to how to secure these child brides, because all I hear is that you reject the bill and will not vote for it, but there are not so many other proposals on how to secure the rights of these girls. And these girls, who are forced into a marriage and you shouldn't come and tell me that a girl under 18 years of age has voluntarily chosen to marry; I think one hundred percent that she has been affected to the day we have an obligation to help.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209104552	Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209104553	[Sound emission]... we shall look at how we can then do so if we are not clear enough in terms of not recognising the marriages that we should not acknowledge. I think that's quite fair. But the minister talks about the young girl's rights. Well, if you're 17 years old and you've come here with your 21-year-old husband and your children, then I don't know if it's always best for that woman to have her marriage canceled and maybe end up as an unaccompanied refugee. Well, it's not certain that it's automatically the best interests of the girl that you take care of if you cancel her marriage.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209104630	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209104631	For the government, it is very, very crucial that the authorities do not go in and blue stamp marriages among young people under the age of 18. Marriage among young people under the age of 18 is another time. They belong to a time when the housing situation was such that one could only get a home if one was married and where the position of the woman was quite different. I'll give it to you, sir. Christian Langballe is absolutely right when he says that this comparison cannot be made today. That's why we're gonna have to put our foot down in front of a baby's bride, and we're gonna do that with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209104710	Then it is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209104713	In fact, I am a little curious about these automatic reactions, because as I have read the existing legislation, you have to assess each case and here I am talking about recognition of foreign marriages. You have to get in and make an assessment on a case-by-case basis. In addition, we have social legislation which protects minors, in other words children and young people, from being subjected to neglect. So I would like to hear from the Minister where our legislation is inadequate and where it is in practice that these automatic reactions are. In other words, what are some specific examples where we have blue-stamped something that should not have been blue-stamped?
ParlaMint-DK_20161209104802	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209104803	But it is precisely in the process of going in and assessing each case. With this you also have a legitimation, and you have a blue stamp, and I think it should be the other way around. It should be the case that it is illegal to be a child's bride. In other words, we must not and must not accept child brides, and I think it is too easy when there are rapporteurs who stand up here on the platform and make an otherwise excellent rhetorical speech about how big an opponent of child brides you are, but when it comes to actually abolishing child brides in Denmark, one will not vote in favour. And there will be no solutions to what you want to put in place. There I miss both solutions, but also the recognition that Denmark should not stamp child bride. I mean, this possibility of exemption belongs to a completely different time, and it is not a second too early for us to abolish it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209104904	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209104905	Well, I am preoccupied with the grey areas, and that is because I do not want to be involved in adopting legislation that has a different effect from that which was intended. In fact, I think we have very good social legislation, and that is why I just want to know whether the Minister thinks it is inadequate in terms of protecting children and young people, or whether the Minister does not trust that the authorities who have to go in and carry out these assessments do so properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209104939	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209104941	Generally, there may be many grey areas when it comes to politics, but I think this is one of the legislative proposals that will be very, very black and white. You want us to accept a baby's bride? Should we accept that girls are forced to marry and seal it? I do not buy the premise that it should then be an individual decision. In other words, even if you have an individual decision, it is still a blue stamp. It is still the legitimation of child brides, and I believe that as a society we should say quite clearly and make it clear that we will not be involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209105021	Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209105025	The minister is sailing around, is it an automatic reaction, or is it an individual assessment? Apparently, the minister means both, but it must be one of them. And if it is to comply with the applicable law, it must be an individual assessment. So I think it is approaching such disinformation from the parliamentary platform when a minister says it is an automatic reaction. But I really want to ask a question about the Children's Council's hearing response. It must be assumed that the Children's Council knows a great deal about children and minors, and they write precisely that exemption from the age requirement takes into account cases where there are good reasons for dispensing, if this is in the interest of the minor, and by abolishing the possibility of this, it cuts off the ability of the authorities to assess what is in the interest of the minor in the specific case. What is the Minister's comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161209105117	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209105119	It's been an automatic reaction. These marriages have been approved. And then there are some rapporteurs who say that you want an individual assessment, and there I just say that I do not want an individual assessment or an automatic reaction. I want to completely abolish the possibility that there may be child brides in Denmark. When it comes to the Children's Council hearing answer, I have to admit that I do not agree. What they are talking about is precisely this: family life is worthy of protection. Yes, of course family life is worthy of protection, but in relation to the young girl who has been married against her will and has ended up as a child's break-up in a forced marriage, her life is also worthy of protection, and that is actually what the Folketing is dealing with right now, that is to say to prevent her continuing to be a child's bride.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209105217	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209105218	So either you have an automatic reaction or you have a specific assessment, and that is a concrete assessment that is being made today. However, I have to say that the Minister believes that the Children's Council has a position which means that children's interests are not being safeguarded. I think that is a very interesting point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209105238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209105239	It is on the basis of an assessment that I do not share and that the government does not share.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209105245	Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209105247	Thank you. I am actually wondering, the more I hear the Minister. Today we have an existing right to grant derogations to married couples, one of whom is not 18 years old but 15 years old or older. It is not used as much today as it has been used in the past, but what on earth is wrong with a parent couple giving consent to their daughter, who is 17 years old, marrying someone she is in love with and having a child with and who is 20 years old? I liked to know: What's wrong with it? I don't actually call it a baby bride when you're over 15 years old. We have a sexually low age of 15 years. So isn't it just because the minister has now come up with the idea of calling everyone under the age of 18 a baby bride? In my opinion, that is really not fair. But why is the example I set just now wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20161209105346	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209105347	We have to draw a line, and the limit is that when you enter into marriage, you have to be of age. I really had the hope that the Radical Left shared that view and that the Radical Left also felt that there was a need to take into account the girls who were forced to marry. And when Mrs. Marianne Jelved talks about this very much in love girl, who is 17 years old and wants to get married, I just have to say, how can you be sure that it is a girl who is very, very in love? How can you be sure it's a girl who chose her own choice? We cannot be sure of this, and that is precisely why marriage must be possible only at the age of majority. I'm one hundred percent on target for this bill. I think that every time we can get in and prevent a child's break-up from being maintained in a marriage, even if it is only a few cases a year, we must do so. That is why we should not stamp out child brides, that is why we should not legitimise child brides, and that is why we are discussing this bill today. It is to simply draw a line in the sand and say: When you come to Denmark, you cannot be underage spouses.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209105458	Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209105501	Then I have to expect the Minister also to think that we should raise the age of sex. Otherwise, it doesn't make any sense at all. So I would just like to ask: is that what is in the cards?
ParlaMint-DK_20161209105514	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209105514-2	No, it's not in the cards.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209105519	Then I thank the Minister. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209105534	The debate is open. Sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209105551	Thank you. The bill here is part of the implementation of the agreement on a new property assessment system concluded a few weeks ago. As you know, the current property valuations are from 2011 for ownership homes and 2012 for commercial properties, but we have had to suspend our entire property valuation system as it is today because it turned out to be so flawed and there were too many fluctuations in the valuations that were given. It was, of course, unsatisfactory and therefore had to be suspended. It has also been necessary to close down the possibility of complaining about its assessment, which is also unsatisfactory for citizens, that is to say, that the legal certainty is gone in these years, and that work must continue on collecting around 42 billion. kr. annually in real estate taxes on such an imprecise basis. Therefore, it was a bottom-up task to develop a new property assessment system, and it is good that there is a broad majority in the Folketing behind this agreement, so that you can ensure stability and agreement on the basis of how to collect property taxes in Denmark. As I said, it's 42 billion. kr. of the year we are talking about, and of course it has to be done properly. We tried, under the previous government with the Social Democratic Party at the end of the table, to correct this problem, where the Left was particularly reluctant. Since then, the Left has moved on, and fortunately the technology has also moved on, so that you can actually create a system that is also better than what was possible to propose at that time back in 2013. So now it will happen that the new assessment system is planned to come into force in 2018 and 2019, and when you have the new assessments in 2020 and 2021, it will again be possible to complain. It will also be the case that those who have paid too much in recent years, which have therefore been suspended, can get their money back. It's all missing. The law here then postpones the assessments again. We have to do that when we delay making new property assessments. It is, I think, rather a declaration of bankruptcy for us as Parliament that we have to do so and that there have been these years with the very serious problems in this area, but it is necessary to do so, and we do so with the bill here, just as the bill allows the data to be collected and the data to be passed on to various authorities in order to make the new property assessment system work. There will also be some better opportunities for SKAT to accommodate some of the owners where there have been some unfairness due to all these years of delay in new assessments. Although we have an agreement with each other, we will of course follow the development of the new system closely. It is not a simple or a small task, but we believe that it will work and work significantly better than the system that is today. However, there are critical voices already that believe that it can be difficult to get the new assessment system ready for 2018, and in addition, there is also the question of whether the amount of complaints can be handled in the new system, and whether the Treasury assesses correctly in its assessment of how many complaints there will be. Of course, in order not to be put down by complaints, it is very important to undertake a task of information on the new system and dialogue with citizens before it comes into force. We would also have liked the new agreement on housing taxation to be adopted together with the property assessment system, but, as you know, that did not allow the situation in the blue block. There was just an expansion of government that needed to be put in place and a financial law before we can get to that discussion, but that has to come. In the meantime, it is true that the adoption of the system alone will lead to quite a sharp increase in taxation. And it is not intended that there should be the same income, in our opinion, and there is some consensus on this, from this area, so a change in taxation must therefore be adopted. We have committed each other to this, and it will then come in the new year we understand that the government is presenting its new proposal on how the housing tax should be, but on the basis of some more precise assessments. One of the things I think it may be important to highlight about the agreement that has been reached is that where, in the government's proposal alone, there was a refund scheme for homeowners who had paid too much, it has also been agreed now that there should be such a one for tenants, where there are also cases that too much property taxes have been paid in the intervening period. How exactly that is to happen, we have the merit of agreeing with each other, but we think that is very important. So we're gonna back this bill and we're gonna support the files that have to go through the Financial Committee to finance the development of this new property assessment system.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209110045	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209110058	Thank you, President. I would like to start by saying that the Danish People's Party can also support L 92. It is, after all, the implementation of the agreement we have just reached on a new property assessment system. It has been a long time along the way, and there have been many meetings. I would say that we in the Danish People's Party believe that we have reached a very good compromise here on something that we also believe can be brought into real life. What has to be noted is that it is still called a property rating. That is why we are also very pleased that the government, as a starting point, also called for a precautionary principle when it comes to saying up front that there will always be an uncertainty when you make an assessment; there will be that everywhere in the country. We therefore also believe that the agreement we have reached here is exactly the right one. It will provide security for the homeowners. It will also provide security for politicians in relation to what tax base we have and what kind of economy it is about property taxation. But we must also acknowledge that this may be the easy part. The difficult part still remains to be resolved, and that is the taxation itself. And as the previous Social Democrat rapporteur said, that is what we are about to work on first in the new year, and of course the Danish People's Party is looking forward to it. What we also welcome is the fact that there has been a freeze and that the repayment that will happen will be made to everyone, that is to say, both for owners and tenants. It has also meant something to the Danish People's Party that this is where we come to. Another thing that also filled a great deal in the negotiations is the fee for complaints, because even if you have a precautionary principle, it will certainly be the case that some people will also complain. We hope, of course, that it will be as few as possible, and we expect that too, which will complain about the assessment that is there, and we are glad that we have landed on a sound basis of DKK 1,000, which makes you think about, of course, before complaining. But it is also not a price that discourages people from complaining, because of course you have to have that opportunity if you think you have not been treated fairly by the public system. So all in all we in the Danish People's Party would like to thank the parties involved in the agreement for their good cooperation, and we look forward to the difficult part which will be the taxation itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209110323	Thank you. The next is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209110330	Thank you for the floor. The property valuations in Denmark have long been imprecise and opaque. There are several examples of one's houses that have been assessed very differently and there has been a great deal of mistrust of the system and of the SKAT. The National Audit Office has also criticised SKAT for making property assessments that are not uniform and fair for all. Trust in SKAT and public property assessments must be rebuilt. I am therefore pleased that, in a broad circle of parties, we have reached a settlement on property assessments, of which this bill is part. The draft law gives effect to the part of the agreement relating to the postponement of assessments and the advance of the tax base on land and cover tax. The bill ensures that an Implementation Centre for Property Assessments, also known as ICE, can carry out data collection and registration in connection with the development of the new assessment system. The new property valuation system will be operational in 2018 for owner-occupied dwellings and in 2019 for other properties such as commercial properties and cooperative housing associations, as it takes time to develop the system. The current system is therefore used for a further period of 1 year, and therefore the tax base for land and cover tax is brought forward by 1 year from the tax year 2019. The draft law also postpones the right of appeal, as the Socialist rapporteur mentioned, for another year so that it fits in with the use of the new property assessments. It is, of course, boring that it is necessary to postpone these things one more year, but on the other hand we are also betting that we have now reached a good agreement that gives some right-wing assessments. Last but not least, the bill proposes to extend SKAT's access to audit until a final assessment system is ready. And the bill will be followed by further legislative proposals on the new assessment scheme in spring 2017, so that the final development of the assessment system can be adopted before the summer break. I would also like to thank all the parties that have helped to take responsibility for putting the assessment system in place. It is important that we are a broad circle of parties that adopt these things so that there is security about it in Denmark. On behalf of the Left, I would like to say that we naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209110547	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209110556	The property assessment system in SKAT has collapsed, while we have seen a large number of other scandals in SKAT since 2005. The reason for all these scandals we have seen is that, since 2005, changing governments have destroyed SKAT with savings and saved SKAT to pieces. In 2005, approx. 11,500 employees in SKAT, in 2015 there were approx. 6,500 employees in the SKAT, i.e. the closure of 5,000 posts. At the same time, attempts were made to introduce a wide range of IT systems, which were thought to save a lot of years' work, but which at the same time proved not to work, and we now have among other things. also seen that the common recovery system has been scrapped and that the arrears to SKAT are currently increasing by 1.5 billion. kr. a month. That is why we are here today; because irresponsible politicians from changing governments over the last ten years have ruined the SKAT with savings. In the Enhedslisten, we agree that care must be taken to have a proper and well-functioning property assessment system. On the other hand, we do not agree that the housing tax should be maintained, as is the case with the bill. In the Enhedslisten we have consistently opposed the housing tax stop. This has helped to create a wide range of injustices. Firstly, property that has had a large increase in value has escaped any form of extra taxation. So there are people who have really made money without being taxed by them. And when you do not have an exit tax, as Enhedslisten proposes, while at the same time putting the plug in the current property value tax, there are some groups that stand for huge, work-free profits, and that is not fair. Secondly, the tax freeze has also helped to breathe into a housing bubble which, together with the debt-free loans, has significantly increased demand and has made the housing market in the capital, in particular, very unhealthy. As I said, it is not only the housing tax stop that has led to this, but it has certainly been a contributing factor. For example, economic wise men think so. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Thirdly, the housing tax freeze has led to a gradual geographical distortion in which taxation is not proportional to the value of the property. And the huge increases in value, for example. The area of the capital is under-taxed, while in rural areas buildings are overtaxed. Many of these issues are being considered by the government, as is apparent from the government's proposal on property taxation, and although we do not necessarily agree with all the proposals in the original proposal, we do agree that the problem of the current tax freeze must be resolved. In relation to the specific legislative proposal here today, we agree that transitional arrangements should be made. You have to, now that you have a property assessment system that has collapsed. But we believe that it should be approached in a different way than merely continuing the housing tax freeze, which has been expensive and unfair for Denmark and which we are deeply opposed to. One could, for example: make a price adjustment of property values and tax on the basis of that value instead of simply prolonging the housing tax stop. This will also have further consequences, because when we move to a new property assessment system and a new housing tax system, we will be based on a lower and underestimated price level, because the artificially low level has just been maintained because of the continuation of the tax freeze, and this supports the injustices I have already mentioned. In relation to the elements of the bill which relate to the very construction of a new system, i.e. the very possibility of data collection etc., the Enhedslisten naturally supports it. However, when it is linked in the bill to an extension of the housing tax stop, we cannot, as a whole, support the bill. Finally, I would like to make one small comment on the precautionary principle that was included in the original housing tax proposal. It's a little funny that the government in its proposal at least operates to give a discount of 20%. in some kind of buffer. But why not instead use the money to create an assessment system that is more precise? In fact, before 2005, we had that before SKAT was destroyed by savings, and it will cost many billions of dollars to make that precautionary principle. An assessment system could be put in place for a probably much smaller amount, as we saw before 2005. I think that would be more reasonable, also from an economic point of view. We must then have a precise assessment system so that we can have transparency and justice, but also pay the right tax. This was a comment on the precautionary principle, but, as I said, Enhedslisten cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209111105	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209111117	Thank you. After all, not all legislative proposals are put forward and adopted in the Folketing, which are of equal importance to citizens. But this is one of them that is of great importance, because it is about us having a new property assessment system in Denmark. And we must do so in the light of the justified criticism that has been voiced by, among others, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. The revision of the present system. The National Audit Office wrote that citizens and companies are not sure about getting an equal and fair treatment when SKAT evaluates their properties. And it is, of course, a legal state that one cannot have in a well-functioning society like the Danish one. Against this background, therefore, it has been a bottom-up task for us politicians to create a new system that provides more accurate assessments. Therefore, more work has been done in SKAT to develop a new system in which both attempts are made to hit the actual trade prices of properties as precisely as possible and attempts are made to take into account the uncertainty that will always be in this kind of assessment issue. The new valuations will therefore be based on much more information about the individual property than before, and in future the assessments will take into account everything from the size of the dwelling, the size of the land, the time of construction of the building and possible renovations of everything from basement to roofing material, etc. A large number of information will therefore be included in the new assessment system. For more special properties, the assessments will be supplemented by e.g. image material and any visits to the property. The new valuations will therefore be more accurate than the old ones, but by their very nature they will still be an assessment of the market value of the property. It is therefore extremely positive that the citizens will benefit from the doubt, since the tax base will be 80% in the future. of the public property assessment. At the same time, emphasis has been placed on making the assessment as educational as possible so that citizens have a good opportunity to understand why they have to pay the tax to be paid. It is also an essential consideration that the individual citizen does not feel that he is being unduly taxed in relation to other citizens as it has been up to now. So far, many people have probably found it difficult to understand why they had to pay the property tax they have been asked to pay. New and more accurate assessments mean that the tax base is significantly increased. For this reason, of course, the question of assessment cannot be seen in complete isolation from the question of the level and distribution of taxation. However, we sense that although there are political differences about the level of taxation, there is a relatively broad consensus among many parties in the Folketing that a secure and reasonable framework should be created for the housing owners' economy. Therefore, the parties to the agreement also agree that total housing taxes must not increase at the time of the transition to and due to this new property assessment system. Against this background, the Liberal Alliance can, of course, support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209111525	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. And then it's sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209111532	Thank you. While I remember it, I would like to say hurry up and say that I should greet the SF and say that, unfortunately, they cannot support the bill. As far as the alternative is concerned, we are in a situation where I will not say yes or no yet. There are elements in this which run counter to our conviction of what we are going to do in the area of taxation, and that is among other things. in relation to many of the elements mentioned just now by Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Rune Lund. I don't want to go deeper into that. This is primarily the technical aspect I have taken note of in this draft law, and that is where we would really like to back it up. Because there has been a crisis in this area for many years... I think you can call it a long time before we entered the Folketing. And that's why we have to do something about it. During the last year and a half I have received many inquiries from people who wanted to create a different assessment system for us. Many of the proposals have been very interesting. Some of them may have been almost too good on paper, it could be difficult to see them brought out in reality. But we are faced here with a situation where what is being presented now is, in our view, the best possible, in other words technically. We are going to take a great risk by implementing such a system, because only the buffer that has also been described indicates that far, far from being sure that this system is going to be as precise as we would like it to be. There I would very much like to highlight the proposals we have made in the past from the alternative, in other words to invest heavily in SKAT. There are some things that employees are the only ones who can do. And even though in the alternative we are a digitisation-friendly and very progressive party, there is still an infinite lack of resources in the SKAT, so that we can believe that it can be the machine and the dynamo that SKAT must be in society, so that we do not look at it as such a slave partner, as it is often presented in the media today. In fact, it is we here in the Parliamentary Chamber who define how the SKAT should work. Having said that, we cannot support this proposal yet, and unfortunately I do not think we are going to do so either, because we are maintaining a number of inequality structures in our tax allocation, which we do not support in any way. But I would like to give you a little extra time, because we only got the hearings here a few days ago or it was only when I became aware of them. And, as the Liberal Alliance rapporteur also said, this is a very, very important legislative proposal. So I'm thinking we'll take a good look at it and see if we can say yes to it in any way. Because we think it is essential. However, I think it will be the case that we will have to divide it up. And with the interest that has been in inviting us to the negotiations so far, I am not sure that will be the case. It is as if we can be spared in this context. But let us see if there is somewhere where we can approach each other, because I think it is important that we stand together in the Folketing. However, as I said, I hardly see it happening that we will be supporting it, not because of the technical, but because of the political.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209111832	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209111838	Several rapporteurs have said that the legislative proposal we have before us is an absolute necessity, and I can say that this is also the radical view. In fact, I think we were one of the first, if not the first party, perhaps because at that time we had the tax minister post which was out to say that the mess and almost the breakdown that has been in the entire property assessment system in Denmark, neither the Danes, the homeowners nor the Folketing could live with. It is therefore a great satisfaction and indeed a great pleasure for me to stand today and be able to recommend a law which now gives a completely new property assessment of all the Danish homes and which will ensure, I am convinced, a much greater precision in the property assessment, a much greater professionalism behind it, and thus also a much greater chance that you will actually be taxed by what your home is worth. And we have even put in a 20 percent margin of uncertainty, so that, although you can never hit a hundred percent precisely on all properties, you have a considerably greater chance of hitting virtually all properties correctly as far as the tax base is concerned. We're all happy about that. But we are particularly pleased about it, because it is the first part of a two-stage rocket, where we know that the second part is actually and here I have to say that I am a little puzzled by both Enhedslisten's and Alternativet's contributions... is a dispute with the housing tax stop that we Radicals have been fighting against for the past 15 years, it is well since Anders Fogh Rasmussen introduced it. It is smart enough that the Prime Minister has come up with a new and smarter housing tax stop, but what was sick in the old housing tax stop was two things. One was that you had this huge social inequality, which I fully agree with both Mr. Rune Lund and Mr. René Gade in was unacceptable, i.e. that the same, typically the richest, property just rose and increased in value, and that one did not have to pay any more in tax of it, whereas the bias that has occurred in Denmark in the meantime, which has left a lot out in rural areas with much, much cheaper properties, has helped to distort the whole country economically and maybe it is the biggest difference between the country and the city in today's economic sense. In any case, it is the bias that has led to the greatest increase in inequality in Denmark. And the fact that it's all been standing still, isn't it? This is, in fact, being done up to now, in the sense that housing will now continue to be assessed and the new assessment will tax you when prices rise. And if you can't pay it, i.e. if it's over 2%. or wage developments in society, you have to pay when selling your home. At least that's the sketch. And it's a fight with the old housing tax stop. Then I would like to say that there are parts of what has been put forward which have not necessarily been the Cup of the Radicals either, including that a discount has to be paid to those who have already benefited from the old housing tax stop. I would like to say at this stage, although that is not what we are discussing today, that it is certainly something that we will have a very strong look at when we are going to negotiate the second part of the two-stage package, namely housing taxation. We want to create as much social equality as possible in the new taxation system. We want to ensure that there is no distortion of country and city. In general, we want to ensure a balance in the new housing tax, which must be negotiated on top of this. But the whole prerequisite for doing so at all is that we have a proper property assessment system, otherwise nothing can be done. That's why I don't understand why you can't be against that part of it. Then we can end up with a tax model saying that no, that is not good enough for us to vote in favour of. That's fair enough. There we Radicals have the parliamentary tradition to enter into the negotiations and have an influence instead of washing their hands outside. It's okay to have that division of labour. However, I cannot really understand why people are opposed in themselves to having a better tax base and a more precise property assessment system for the benefit of everyone. But peace be to it. I don't have to worry about that. Everyone's free to do that. In any case, we are pleased that we are now getting a more precise valuation of property. We believe that this is an absolutely essential condition in order to be able to obtain better housing taxation as well. So we wholeheartedly support this bill, which is also part of a broad agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209112320	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209112329	In any case, I would like to congratulate the Radicals for always entering into the negotiations. In this case, if we had been invited, I would have liked to have stepped up. At the only meeting I've been to so far, that wedge of suspicion was created for us to join. There I directly asked the tax minister whether it was not true that the overall package that was delivered would create more inequality not only in relation to the past, but also right now and here. I certainly did not get a clear answer that this was not the case. But I would like to acknowledge Mr. Martin Lidegaard's statements. We'll also try to see if we can't get closer because we need this system. Then we shall see if we can isolate some of the political aspects. I also have to say that if we cannot find a better solution, I would rather accept this proposal than just stand and watch. But right now, as I said, it looks hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209112418	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209112421	Thank you for your kind remarks. After all, I am not the one who sits in government and has been involved in organising the negotiations that the government has conducted, so I do not know why the alternative has not been invited and the talks that Mr. René Gade had to have had with the tax minister. It is our clear conviction that what we are dealing with today, the assessment system itself, is simply a better system to find out how much housing is worth and how best to assess it. Then there are a number of outstanding issues in the tax system in which we will have to negotiate later and which I hope will hit a profile in which the alternative can also see itself and in which we should at least be able to see ourselves from the Radical Left. However, what has been put forward by the government, and what is the starting point for the negotiations, is certainly better than what was. We would like it to be even better, but some progress has already been made, which I think should be acknowledged.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209112515	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209112518	I also think this is the first time I have anything to put off the tax minister's process, which is usually very, very involved. So now we are taking some questions and then I hope we can land something positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209112526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209112528	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209112529	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209112534	I do not believe that the rapporteur on the Radical Left was listening fully when I gave my rapporteur's speech. In any case, I said very clearly that the elements of the draft law which deal with the construction of a new property assessment system, i.e. the possibility of data collection, etc., are of course supported. That is quite clear. I also mentioned the precautionary principle that the government has played out with, but which has not been adopted. I think this is a strange way of tackling the problem. It would be much better to go for a more precise assessment system than to make a precautionary discount on tax payments. After all, we have had an assessment system that has worked in the past, namely before 2005 before all the savings in SKAT started. In addition, I agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Martin Lidegaard in that it is a scrap of the tax freeze and that it is a build-up of something else with ongoing taxation based on some assessments. Enhedslisten's attitudes are incredibly successful. For many years we have been advocating that this should be the case and that it should also be the case that there should be some sort of exit tax, so that the property value tax fell when selling the dwelling so that people were not taxed out of their homes. In fact, many of the bars are in what the government has played out with, so we have always been very interested in participating in the negotiations. We just haven't been allowed to do it, even though we've knocked many times.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209112657	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209112658	I'm sorry if I misunderstood, sir. Rune Lund. I just thought it sounded as if we were also going to vote against this bill, which is not, as it were, the tax part itself. That's why I allowed myself to come up with a small outcome. I can now hear that the Enhedslisten can support the technical part of the proposal for the lower ratings a long way along the way. But the reason why we are voting 'no' is the precautionary principle of 20%. mainly, if I heard correctly this time. I would just like to say that we have also been involved in problematizing whether a ceiling should be set on this precautionary principle. The discussion, which is really a discussion about the progressiveness of the overall tax system, has then been agreed that we are going through the tax negotiations. We haven't quite let that go yet. I agree that the savings that have been made in the SKAT have been far too deep and have been reasonably disastrous for the entire institution, so it is not to defend it. However, it is my impression that in the old days too, if I may say so, we had a property valuation which also struck reasonably imprecisely in the sense that it may have hit 70 or 75%. of the homes right. And I really think it is very sensible to have a precautionary principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209112812	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209112813	After all, the precautionary principle has not yet been negotiated, so that is not my specific reason for not voting in favour of this bill. This is the continuation of the housing tax freeze on property valuations. For example, we had... rather a model of indexation, because we know that, for the assessments that will be the basis for the new system that will come into force in 2021, the existing housing tax will be based on. So if you simply continue the housing tax freeze at the level of assessment, if I may say so, you are setting an artificially low level in our view in relation to what will be the starting point when the new comes into force in 2021. So that is the concrete reason why we cannot support this bill. It's just a clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209112855	Thank you. Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209112856	This could be very technical. After all, what has been agreed is that new property assessments are being made, real property assessments, not based on what has been paid in the past and what has been done in the past, but completely new, dew-fresh assessments, which will be the real assessment of what the property is worth, and that will tax you. Then the government has a proposal that there should be a tax rebate for a period which means that you will not pay any more tax as long as you sit in the housing you have been sitting in before, but the assessment itself and the taxation that you get are new. It's not based on the old.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209112933	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's no more questioners. When Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party, and Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party, is not present, it is the Minister of Taxation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209112947	Thank you for a good discussion on this bill. After all, the bill is a key piece in ensuring that we reach the goal of the new property assessment system, which will provide the Danes with more precise, uniform and, hopefully, transparent assessments of their properties and land. And that is something unfortunately, I would say as a number of my predecessors have been working quite intensively on, and it is a problem that has existed for too many years. The current property valuations have created uncertainty about the basis for housing taxation in Denmark, and I understand that there are some taxpayers who, when they have to pay their housing tax, and in some cases it is a lot of money in kroner and ear, and the increases that have been have also been quite large, ask what the whole basis is for estimating that you have to pay a or b or c, and who, when they look at the valuation statement and the writings that have been in the press about SKAT's property valuation system, are somewhat puzzled about it. This helps to undermine confidence in the housing tax, and the housing tax is, of course, whether you like it or not, a very important source of income for the state, with which we use to finance a very, very large part of our welfare society. So if we are to secure confidence in our housing tax system and the housing tax in Denmark, we need a much better basis for calculating that tax, and that is what we will get with a new property valuation system. That is why I must not hide the fact that I am very pleased that we have managed to reach a very broad agreement on this new property assessment system, and I would like to sign up to the broad circle of parties involved. It can of course be said that all the parties involved were lacking in the past, and there are also a number of parties that have been in the office of tax minister and tried to solve the problem, but have not been able to do so. It is not a matter of course that this happens, but in this case it has been the case that there has been a good and constructive dialogue and a constructive process of negotiation in which all the parties who have worked with it in the past years, including under the previous government, have been most of them in any case included in the agreement on a new property assessment system. And I'd like to sign that and say thank you for that, I think it's kind of appropriate. So it is an incredibly important step that we are taking with the agreement that has been made. So this bill is just the first step. After all, with this bill, we are postponing the right of appeal further in order to be able to adopt a proper legislative proposal for the new property assessment system in the spring. Then there is what stands out as the political debate, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, and it is a question of how we should then set up a new housing tax system. Now we are getting the basis for the assessments in place and building up a new assessment system. And what will happen to the property tax? And here it is crucial that we find a long-lasting model for the housing tax that ensures the security of the homeowners and also ensures that the total housing tax does not increase at the time of the transition to the new valuations. That is why I am also pleased that the parties to the agreement agree to aim to reach an agreement on security of housing taxation before the third reading of the legislation on the new property assessment system at the latest. That is what we have written some lines about in the text of the agreement. And although the negotiations may not be so straightforward and will take some time, I am now looking forward to them, and I hope that it is possible to get a good agreement in place that ensures security for the housing owners' finances. If there are any questions, of course I will answer them in this Chamber today or during the committee procedure. However, I would just like to make a few comments on the debate that has taken place. First of all, I would like to say to Mr. Rune Lund and Enhedslisten, that there's nothing in this bill about a precautionary principle. It is true that when, in the new assessment law coming in the spring and hopefully in a new taxation system, we agree on a more precautionary principle than what is in the current system, we could choose to spend that money on something else. However, once the Engberg Committee has come to the conclusion that there is a spread in relation to uncertainty, that is, any day when you sell a dwelling, someone will give more for that housing or less for that housing, depending on the situation in which the seller is in and the situation in which the buyer is in, so there is a spread I think it is natural that the uncertainty we know there and as a committee of experts say there is, will benefit the homeowners to some extent. Then you can discuss it • the government has played out with the 20%, and of course you can discuss whether it should be or whether it should be more or less. However, I think it is a reasonable principle that this uncertainty benefits homeowners and that we do not take that money and spend it on something else. It is true that we could choose to do that, but the government does not think that is appropriate. Then I would just like to say as a reply to the discussion and exchange of views that existed before between Mr. Martin Lidegaard and Mr. Rune Lund, that I heard Mr. Rune Lund's rapporteur said that the Enhedslisten did not want to support the proposal here. And I understand that you do not want to support a proposal on housing tax. We have not yet agreed on that. And I also understand that you may not be able to see yourself in the new proposal for a new assessment law coming in the spring. But I find it a little difficult to see when I read through the bill why you shouldn't be able to support this bill. Because we do agree that we need a new assessment system, and this proposal enables us to build up a new assessment system. Then we can disagree on many other things. So I would appeal to the Enhedslisten to give it a little extra thought and perhaps to ask some questions along the way that would enable the proposal to be supported. I think it would be beautiful if there were broad support in the Folketing for this and that we could park the political disagreements on how to set up the assessment system and, in particular, the taxation system. It is fair enough that we do not agree on this. That may also be an answer to Mr. René Gade, of the Alternative, that this bill doesn't have much politics in it. And in relation to the concerns that the alternative might have about the distributional aspects of the future housing tax, we do not know anything about it, because no agreement has been reached. So I think it's too early to assess it. And I would also like to give the undertaking that if the alternative wants the bill to be split up in order for them to be able to support it, then, as the tax minister, I have the starting point that if the Folketing asks for it, regardless of the size of the party, I am responding to it, because I think it is an important parliamentary value that things can be shared out. But that must of course lead to some of the draft law being able to vote in favour of the alternative, otherwise it will not make much sense. Then I'd just like to say as a line to Mr. Knox. Martin Lidegaard and the speech by the radical rapporteur that I, as Minister for Taxation, do not agree that the housing tax has been put to death. I don't think it's gonna come as a surprise to sir. Martin Lidegaard, that I say that what the government has announced that you want to do with your proposal is that you want to make a new and improved housing tax stop. Then it is true that there will no longer be any freezing of the property value tax, but, on the other hand, there will be an opportunity to freeze and there will be a cancellation of the land tax to a very large extent. So you get a normalisation of the housing tax stop where it comes under the rules that apply to the other part of the taxes covered by the tax freeze. And that is all very sensible, because it ensures a greater degree of security for homeowners. With those comments, I would like to thank you for a good debate in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209113821	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments. It's first, sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209113830	It's just to clarify. In relation to the specific legislative proposal, we of course agree that a transitional arrangement should be made, but we do not think it should be made simply by continuing the existing housing tax freeze. We saw, for example. I'd like to have a price index regulation. That is my objection. In relation to what concerns the property assessment system, we agree with all the parts of the bill that deal with it. Maybe we'll have to split it up, because then it'll be clarified. However, I have a question regarding the course of negotiations. Before the summer holidays there were meetings where Enhedslisten was also present. Then the summer break goes by, and then negotiations start where Enhedslisten is not invited. Then we ask nicely: why is it that we have not been invited, because we have not been told that we have been thrown out? Then we are told by the government: Well, that's because these negotiations on housing tax and property valuation are linked up to the 2025 plan. Then the 2025 plan falls on the floor. We turn our attention again and say: Dear government, now that the 2025 plan has fallen, can we not join in again? Then we'll be told we can't really do that. Now the negotiations on the tax part of this are postponed until next year, so my question is: can we join in? We would really like to, because there is a great deal in the government's proposal on exit tax and freezing, which is Unity List policy, and which we were the first to come forward with ten years ago: a fair housing tax system that ensures that you are not taxed out of your home because housing taxes are rising.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209113954	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209113957	Sir. Rune Lund is right about the description of the process. I don't know what exactly is the answer to Mr. Rune Lund and used as an argument, but it is true that now we have to come up with a new excuse not to invite Enhedslisten to the negotiations. I say this because if you put all the Christiansborg rhetoric aside, it covers the fact that Enhedslisten is not invited to the negotiations, the fact that Enhedslisten's starting point on housing taxes is somewhat different from that of the government, including the new and larger government. The Enhedslisten has stated a policy that you will raise the housing taxes • unless I have completely misunderstood something and that the homeowners, and especially the wealthiest homeowners, will have to pay much more. It is just not government policy, so when Enhedslisten is not invited to the future negotiations, it is because there are some major differences between our parties in terms of the level of housing taxation. Nor do I believe that the Enhedslisten will be If the government suddenly lacks some mandates, it may well be, but then the Enhedslisten will probably not be so willing to negotiate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209114100	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209114103	I have to live with the fact that this time too we could not be allowed to sit down, and then I must only welcome the spread of the policy we have in the area of housing tax, which is that we believe that the land tax should be retained, but that the property value tax should be converted as far as possible into an exit tax, i.e. a tax which is triggered when you move away from the home. If you move on to another dwelling, you have to be able to wait to pay the tax until that property has also been sold. And if you own housing all your life, it will be a new form of inheritance tax. It can easily be combined with a freezing model. So I must confine myself to welcoming the fact that what Enhedslisten was holding alone ten years ago in the area of housing tax has obviously now become what the government is debating. That we cannot be at the table is a pity, but we must be glad that there are at least some tactics in this which are running well with what we have been thinking for the last ten years.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209114154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209114156	I hardly know if I dare say so, but there are areas where I agree with the Enhedslisten. I was also a legal rapporteur, who was determined to ensure legal certainty and guarantees in a number of areas and where there were situations where I, as the Left Legal Rapporteur, agreed more with Enhedslisten than with any other parties. This does not mean, however, that I neither as a tax minister nor as a member of parliament agree with the Enhedslisten as a party, because one has a rather different starting point. For example: After all, we want to tax the landowners harder, so it is not a policy that we share in the government, and therefore I do not believe that there will be any real negotiations with Enhedslisten in this matter either. But good ideas we steal, no matter who brings them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209114239	The next question is Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209114245	Thank you for your kindness. We will continue to ask questions and welcome the fact that it may be something that can be shared if it makes sense. I am also sorry not to have been involved in the process, at least on this bill, because that is perhaps why I am standing on the platform and being a little dismissive, although I have an enormous desire to say yes on behalf of the Alternative. However, once you have received the hearing answers a few days ago and have not been in the negotiations, I could surely have done much digging work that had made me smarter and sharper in my speech. However, if one could now get involved in one of the very things that the tax minister tells us is very isolated from the political debate that might come about on the new legislative proposal that will come in this area, then it could be a place where we were at least helping to ensure that there was broad political support for the dynamo, which, like the system, is the technical part. So let's try to see if we can't get closer. It was really my intention to say yes, but I have simply not been able to clarify it because I have not been there so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209114345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209114347	That is, of course, regrettable. I always try as a tax minister to work with the involvement of the Folketing. Then, when you have an informed basis for what is being discussed, you can decide whether you want to join or not, whether you want to enter into negotiations. Sometimes this is simply not possible for practical reasons in relation to the momentum of a negotiation process. This has been a partial agreement under the Finance Act, and it simply sets some natural limits on what can be done by process involvement. That's reality. But fortunately this is the case, and Mr. René Gade, of course, and that is why I also welcome what has been said that, as a party, it is not really necessary to state what will be voted on in a legislative proposal when a report is tabled in committee. So there's some time left where Mr. René Gade can ask questions. And then I'm gonna make sure that the Tax Department's skilled officials answer to them. Maybe not, sir. René Gade would like it, but what is now the answer. And then, hopefully, when a report is submitted to the Committee on Taxation, there may be a broad majority for at least parts of this bill. I hope so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209114443	No one else wants to speak. Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. The negotiations have been concluded. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209114510	The debate is open. First of all, sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209114520	Before the Prime Minister was forced to transform the government and expand it, lower registration fees had become a viable currency with which to buy the votes of the Liberal Alliance in the context of the Finance Act. Last year, the registration fee was reduced in the financial law agreement, and this was done again in the 2017 financial law agreement, which is why we are here today to deal with this bill. The registration fee is 105 per cent. tax up to a value of DKK 84,600. 150 percent and 150 percent. tax on the remaining value. Then a large number of different deductions are deducted, and a discount or additional tax is deducted, based on how far a car travels on the liter. So with this proposal, you're going to increase this scale by $22,000. for passenger cars, and for motorcycles with DKK 6,900. The entry into force shall be as early as 22 November 2016. The aim is to make family-friendly cars with high road safety more accessible. That purpose can be sympathetic enough, and we really do have a high registration fee in Denmark, which has a number of unfortunate effects, as has been the development of the car market for many years. New technology is having a difficult time on the market because it imposes the tax on its value, and creating a new technology that makes cars better in terms of fuel consumption is simply expensive, so those cars are becoming much more expensive and harder to get into the Danish market, and there are less safety equipment in the cars in the Danish car park than in many other countries. So there is absolutely good reason to discuss the registration fee. I would also like to say that this is a more proportionate way of reducing the tax than the way it was done last year, as it does not provide much massive tax relief on the most expensive cars that ordinary people will never do more than dream of affording. Something must be priced on a car before there is a full effect of the proposal. The comments show that car sales are currently at a level of 25%. the sale of cars is simply not considered to be affected, simply because so many of the smallest cars are sold and they have so little value that they do not reach the scale of the conversation at all. However, more will benefit from this form of tax relief than was the case with what was done last year. The question is also whether you should not go a little more thoroughly when you want to change the registration fee, and then start a major change, where there will be more focus on how the climate load from the cars is. In our opinion, the same income can be obtained from car taxation in the Treasury, but in a much better and more socially appropriate way than today. Finally, it is of course a matter of priority, and here there is a major criticism of the legislative proposal on our part, because in its agreements the government must, of course, be under-priority of welfare and, for example, of social security. implement savings in the field of education. In these weeks we are discussing a lot of examples of unworthy conditions in the care of the elderly, problems in the maternity wards and other examples of where there are places in our welfare community where it is therefore difficult to deal with resources. And yet it is lower car charges that we are discussing today and not how to remedy the problems experienced in everyday well-being. Nor are we discussing whether the same money could be used to invest in the future, i.e. to create more jobs, more skills, more technical research, etc. Then we are in favour of the economy in the proposal. Currently Denmark's Radio is re-issuer of the excellent "Nisse Gang" in Greenland, where Fiffig-Jørgensen from Holme Olstrup from Mr. René Christensen's edges play an important role, but here it is more like a chic deer that has been at stake. Because one has to imagine a situation in the negotiating room where the Liberal Alliance has a large number of demands for which one cannot get a majority, but then they will at least have cheaper cars. And is it not terribly expensive, given that there are 21 billion. kr. annually in the box from registration fees and 10.5 billion. kr. from weight tax? It is not so, and here the Minister of Finance comes into the picture with some quite fancy ways of calculating. If you are sufficiently creative with the Excelark, you can go far. It is estimated that after a return of approx. 250 million kr. in 2017 and in a lasting effect, a loss of revenue for the State of 200 million. kr. However, there are some very large behavioural effects here, and one immediately budgets for a loss of 1 billion. kr. in 2017, but due to the behavioural effects only a loss of revenue of 350 million. kr. And there should therefore be a significant effect here in the form of an increased supply of work. Danes should therefore simply give themselves to work more because the cars have become cheaper. Quite frankly, we do not think there can be any quite convincing answer as to why this should be so. In the consultation answers, the automotive industry also points out that with lower registration fees, more cars will be declared totally damaged and therefore go above the repair limit of 65 per cent. of a car's current value. There are several rapporteurs in the government bloc who have talked about changing this border. It didn't happen in the Finance Act, but it sounded good when they told the trade journals. We do not have a current proposal to change the limit and have not allocated the money to it immediately, but I really think that is an important point that the auto industry has and it updates the debate on whether the calculation of the cost of repairing a car should be based on list prices for spare parts or on the actual cost of the spare parts used, which is most often used in reality. In conclusion, I know that time is short now, I would say that the Social Democrats doubt that the government's calculations are correct here, and it is to be expected that the cost of the proposal is greater than that of the government's wishful thinking. We support looking at the design of car taxation, but if we had made a financial law, the large sums we are talking about here would have been spent on higher quality in everyday welfare and on the benefit of education, retraining and investment in more jobs, rather than reducing overall car taxation. I am sorry, Mr President, I went a little over time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209115131	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209115137	The first thing I want to say is that the voices of the Liberal Alliance cannot be bought. Like all other parties, including the Social Democratic Party, we have some things that we think are important; we have some key issues, and we align them with all other parties to get concessions on when we go to negotiations. One of our main issues is that we want registration tax abolished. Honestly, I'm surprised that sir... Jesper Petersen is talking about strange calculations, I almost hear that it is said. - Sir... Jesper Petersen confirms that no calculation methods have been changed in the Ministry of Finance over the past many years, that exactly the same calculations have been made as were made when Mr. Bjarne Corydon was in the Ministry of Finance and that the Ministry of Finance at that time did not find any reason to change the method of calculation?
ParlaMint-DK_20161209115239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209115244	It is true that, in terms of dynamic effects on a number of points, we are working on the same sorts of elasticity and ways of calculating, as has been done for a number of years, also while Bjarne Corydon was Minister of Finance. Nevertheless, it is very controversial, and I also think there is a difference in how well documented different parts of the calculations are. And when we come to what is at stake in the registration fee, I really believe that this is at the thin end. I really lack a thorough and empirical justification for saying that because car taxation has been reduced, the Danes have given themselves to work more and that it will not only happen over the years but that it will just happen immediately. In other words, last year, the claim was that a quarter of the behavior effects that would be achieved by lowering registration fees were 280 million. kr. January. So as soon as the car tax was reduced, the Danes would start working more with a social value of 280 million. kr. What is the specific situation that one imagines that some people work and make their everyday life work together on the basis of the number of hours they now work, but because they can then buy a cheaper car, they suddenly start working something more? I think it's a little hard to see that connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209115407	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209115410	For me, it sounds as if the calculation methods are being problematized when the way in which they are calculated in the Ministry of Finance does not fit in with the policy of the Social Democratic Party. Quite frankly, I think that is irresponsible. It is probably quite common in economic theory and literature that when you have a very, very high tax rate, the level of self-financing is also very high. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20161209115442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209115446	Well, then we're over in some other parts of these calculations. Well, it makes sense to say that when you make it cheaper to buy a car, more cars will probably be sold so you will also think of so many other areas. I also think it makes sense to say that when the tax on work is lowered, it can increase the supply of work, i.e. how much people work. We can then try to make some more or less justified calculations on this, and in the Ministry of Finance they use what they believe to be the most well-founded calculations at this stage, but that is why I still think it is important that we have a discussion about them. Last year it was said, as I said, that this year there would be be behavior effects on these 850 million. kr. Of these, 480 million were to be spent. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful to the rapporteur for his excellent report. kr. I should therefore like to draw your attention to a number of points which have been raised by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, which have been raised by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and which have been raised by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209115546	There is a further brief comment. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209115550	It sounds as if the rapporteur thinks that there will be some other methods of calculation when the power of government changes. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that the former Minister of Finance Bjarne Corydon has actually given a reply to Mr Brian Corydon. Joachim B. Olsen on the labour supply effect on the registration fee, which is calculated exactly in the same way as it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209115611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209115615	That is correct, but the fact that the Ministry of Finance believes it is the best thing they have does not change the fact that we have the opportunity to discuss it and question it. There are a number of problems with the way we are calculated today, which we can try to take into account in those calculations, for example. what the value of education is. It is simply only recently that the Ministry of Finance has given itself the idea that the fact that we have more education will probably have a good effect on the economy. This has simply not been taken into account. That alone has been the structural focus it was about, not the productivity and quality of the labour force. But there we must constantly try to refine the methods and have a critical discussion about how we calculate when they fill so much in the economic discussion we have. I would therefore like to question whether it is possible to provide quite thorough evidence that, in the case of registration fees, there are also the effects of this supply of labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209115712	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209115715	Then I think it might sound a little hollow to say that it is the fault of the current Finance Minister that the effects of the registration tax on labour supply are calculated exactly in the same way as that of the former Socialist Finance Minister. I think you should stay too good to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209115729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209115732	Before you get too high on the blade, I would say that it is also a question of whether they are actually being used. Here, therefore, the registration fee is reduced and its assessment of the cost is justified in calculations which are subject to very great uncertainty, and the previous government did not do so. It is the current government that is doing this. That is why it will be relevant to discuss whether it is a responsible way of doing so. I look forward to hearing Mrs Louise Schack Elholm's example and empirical evidence of being able to say that labour supply is rising so sharply and that it can therefore be said that it costs so little for the state to make these changes to car taxation, as they did last year, and as they are now doing again.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209115820	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209115827	This is the implementation of an element of the 2017 Finance Act agreement, and it is a reduction in the registration fee. This is the second time this has happened in connection with the Finance Act. It happened for 2016, and now it happens again for 2017, however in a slightly different way in 2017 than in 2016. We are very, very positive about this in the Danish People's Party. I would like to point out that it is true that this is a desire on the part of the Liberal Alliance that has been met, but it is certainly not a wish that we have been opposed to in the Danish People's Party. We think it is positive that we can also ensure by means of a financial law that the Danes, who use the car a lot, in a society where more and more commutes, can get a better and cheaper car to drive when they drive to and from work, and thus can also bring their children in a safer car. We think this is very positive both in relation to the individual, but indeed also in relation to the environment and so on. etc. The way we have done it for 2017 is that we have changed the scale. This means that it hits precisely the segment of cars that are sold most, and those that benefit most from the tax reduction that happens with the 2017 Finance Act, are thus owners of a car in the family car segment. And we think it is very positive that as many people as possible will benefit from lowering the registration fee. I would say, however, that although it is a desire of the Liberal Alliance to abolish the registration tax altogether, it is perhaps problematic to take it in bits year after year. Because it can cause some disturbances on the market if you have to buy a car in the last half of a year, because you can expect that the tax might be reduced in the context of a financial law. That is why I would like to call on you to look at the model that I also heard the Social Democrat rapporteur talking about, which is what kind of model we should have, what kind of tax we should have. Should it be the value of the car that we tax, or should it be the safety equipment of the car, etc. etc. that you are looking at, so that we actually get what we want: more environmentally friendly cars and safer cars? And then we should not be faced with the fact that it is a continuous process to lower registration fees on cars in Denmark. That certainly gives rise to some turmoil in the marketplace. The Danish People's Party would also very much have liked us to have a look at the repair limit in connection with the Finance Act, especially in view of the fact that registration tax is now also being reduced. We did not manage to find funding for that part, and that is also the case in a financial law, but we would say that it is still our wish that we should look at it. And there are two reasons for that. We find it strange that the Minister for the Environment, both here in Parliament and on trips around the world, is talking about circular economy and that we should recycle things, even though we actually have a different system. A car has been used unbridled resources to produce, and although it is an environmentally friendly car, it costs a lot of resources to produce it. Yet we find that a great many cars in Denmark are scrapped, even cars with small injuries, and that means that you have to go out and produce a new car for the owner. We find this a pity both for environmental reasons, but also in relation to the fact that very many owners of particularly cheap, small cars, who are in the situation that they had a car that had a good use value for the individual, are now suddenly at risk of having a minus and blamed on the car they don't have, or to stand with 0 DKK. and had to refinance a car which they actually had in advance and in which they drove quite well. It's not part of this proposal, but it's just to say that we think it's a little related to it. The Danish People's Party can, of course, support the proposal, and we think it is a good model that has been chosen this year, where you have looked at the scale talk, and we welcome the fact that the Danes can get better and safe cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209120213	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next in line is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209120227	Thank you for the floor. As you know, the registration tax on cars and motorcycles in Denmark is among the world's highest. Therefore, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party and the Danish People's Party, as part of the 2017 Finance Act, have once again chosen to reduce the registration fee. Specifically, it is proposed to do so by increasing the maximum rate of taxation of 150 per cent. to be used, the so-called scalp bag. For passenger cars, this is an increase from DKK 84 600. DKK 106,600, and for motorcycles from DKK 26,700. DKK 33.600, both in 2017 figures. The many families of children who have previously had difficulty in affording a spacious and safe car are given better opportunities to buy a car that meets their needs. This is because the price difference from a microcar to a slightly larger and safer car will be significantly lower. To give a few examples, the purchase of a VW Polo 1.0 petrol with five doors will save more than DKK 4,000. By buying a slightly larger car such as: a VW Passat 1.6 diesel will save up to DKK 9,700. It is therefore really money that you have to pay less to get a safer and larger family car. And that is why it is to be expected that more Danes will buy a slightly larger and safer car. In Denmark we drive substantially smaller cars than in our neighbouring countries, and the problem is that the smaller cars are typically not as safe as the slightly larger family cars. So we welcome the fact that here we have to reduce the tax so that more Danes can get a slightly larger and safer family car. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209120414	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209120419	This is for this discussion on the cost of the bill, and I would really just like to hear Louise Schack Elholm's statement on how to arrive at a significant labour supply effect, i.e. that people simply want to work more because cars have become cheaper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209120438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209120439	This is because we use exactly the same calculation methods as the then government, the SR government, did. There Bjarne Corydon has written in a reply to Joachim B. Olsen: • For the calculation of the derived behavior effect, a total self-financing rate of approx. 42 per cent. equal to the estimated effect on ownership fees and fuel taxes, residual registration fee and labour supply. And... that the composition of the labour supply effect on or. the hourly effect and the participation effect approximately correspond to the average effect of a change in the top tax rate and a change in the employment allowance. However, I have to say that the registration fee is no longer 180 per cent, so I suppose it has been adjusted from there. But it's actually the most official document on how to calculate these things. That is an answer given by a former Social Democratic Finance Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209120533	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209120534	You get a little tired, don't you? Because that's the way in this Parliament. You find something, as a minister has said before, and then you don't answer the question. Well, it may be, there's the answer like that before, but I asked why and how. What exactly is the mechanism? Have people given themselves to work more in 2016 because last year the government reduced the registration fee in the Finance Act 2016? And if they do, can't Louise Schack Elholm describe what kind of mechanism it is in the individual family that leads to it, what kind of reasoning it is that lies behind it and actually try to answer the question?
ParlaMint-DK_20161209120627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209120628	Well, I tried to answer the question. I said that we used exactly the same methods as the then Socialist-led government did. After all, it is not a political decision how to calculate these things, and that is why I think it is a little strange to take it up in the Assembly. I think it is fair to question the way things are calculated. It's just weird that you have one attitude when you're in government and another when you're not in government. But the social democracy must, of course, even if you want to change your mind every time you go in and out of a government. But we use exactly the same methods, and for the methods used in the Ministry of Finance, the studies that are in Denmark and internationally are used to assess what the elasticity is about the different things. So a number of different studies are typically used. And then you evaluate exactly what it's like to calculate these things. If the rapporteur would like to know exactly who has done the studies in question, what time they have been made, what countries and what records they have been published in, then I think the rapporteur should ask a written question about it. Because I think it's a little strange to have to stand and discuss it in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209120727	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209120744	This is another draft law which expresses a clearly worse bourgeois policy and a priority which on a very large number of parameters we strongly oppose in the Enhedslisten. It is the second year in a row that the registration fee is being relaxed. This year it costs 725 million. kr. in immediate less revenue, and then 200 million. kr. after behavior and backflow. Last year's reduction in registration fees cost 960 million. kr. in immediate effect and, funnyly enough, also 200 million. kr. after retreat and behavior. So if you take these rather wild dynamic effects, which have been incorporated into the equation, for good goods, then, if the proposal is adopted, within two years we will have decided that it will be spent every year at the bottom of 0.5 billion. kr. in the area. But on the Enhedslisten side, we are convinced that this is a much bigger bill to be picked up. And I shall make it quite clear that it is also in line with that, Mr President. Jesper Petersen has said that we do not believe the least in the calculations presented to us when it comes to registration fees. The behavior effects you put on must be pretty violent. And it is amazing that last year, after retreats and behavior, almost 1 billion people went from. kr. EUR 200 million; kr., and this year, funny enough, you also land at 200 million. kr. at an immediate cost of more than 700 million. kr. And just like last year, you base this hoku's fantasy calculation on the fact that lower registration fees increase the supply of work. Last year, the government claimed that the reduction of registration fees would increase labour supply by approx. 700 people. This is more than it is assumed that the ceiling on cash benefits will contribute to the supply of work. This is completely and completely insane. But surely it is not possible to read again in the draft law that positive effects of the supply of labour have been included in the revenue assessment. I should like to say that the Minister can prepare himself for a wide range of critical questions about these behavioural effects. The Liberal Alliance, which is, after all, the strongest defenders of this proposal, has tried in the past to sell a story that the Treasury earns more when it lowers the registration tax. But it's been shot down. The growth in revenue from the Treasury is not attributable to the reduction in registration tax, but to a more general increase in car sales, which has nothing to do with registration tax, such as DR. has documented it in a fact check. But above all, in our optics, it's bizarre to have this priority. The Blue Block has hit the poorest Danes on their livelihoods with the ceiling of cash aid, but at the same time it gives hundreds of millions of dollars away on lower registration fees. Then there is also the broader perspective. The world is facing a climate challenge, and that is where we basically believe in the Enhedslisten that, from a sustainability perspective, the huge amount of money it costs to reduce registration fees should be spent on sustainable public transport at a price that everyone can pay. If, at last, it was the environment that was being cared for, it should have been addressed twice where reductions in registration fees have been made. One could, for example: have put taxes more up for polluting cars and down for environmentally friendly cars. This has not been done because it is not really the main priority. It is in fact getting cheaper cars, no matter what it means for the green balance and the green transition. So if someone hasn't caught it yet, Enhedslisten can't support this bill. And I was supposed to say from the SF that neither can SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209121149	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209121153	Thank you. A few moments ago, the rapporteur from the Left said that it was almost inappropriate to discuss the mechanisms which must lie behind making these calculations of dynamic effects. After all, there are different views as to whether you consider Enhedslisten as a party that really cares that there are two lines below everything when you make economic policy, and I would really just like to hear Enhedslisten's rapporteur, whether you will be able to do something in the Enhedslisten, where the dynamic effects were as uncertain as the ones put up here, and what will it mean if that money is simply not there? If those significant behavior effects don't come at all, what will it have to do with people out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20161209121236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209121238	I'm really happy about the things that Mr. Jesper Petersen says today, because I think it's incredibly important that we have a discussion about these dynamic effects and how they're used in the Treasury calculator. For the reality is that if you count on some dynamic effects, for which there is very little evidence, and where it is highly uncertain that they are there, but that you still expect it to generate an income, then suddenly you are missing that money. And who will have to pay? At least we know who will pay if we ask the blue parties. Then again it is the sick, the old, the disabled, the unemployed, and then it is the welfare that will be paid. So when you do calculations on such a loose basis, so undocumented, you risk creating a hole in the box that others will have to pay later.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209121328	There are no more brief comments. Excuse me, rapporteur. There's another one here. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209121343	Thank you for that, President. Now it is developing into such a discussion on calculation methods in the Ministry of Finance, and that is always interesting. I'm not an economist, and I don't think that Mr. Rune Lund is an economist, so I'm actually gonna try to keep it a little more earthy. For ordinary Danes, workers, employees, metalworkers who go to work, have a house, have a family, having a car is something that increases welfare. It is simply something that makes life better, easier, provides opportunities in everyday life and during holidays. Why under Enhedslisten not ordinary employees to be able to afford a car? Because the registration fee mainly affects people with ordinary and low incomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209121449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209121451	If it were really the ordinary people, as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen cared, sir. Joachim B. Olsen and the Liberal Alliance may not have stood so hard to reduce the registration fee from 180 to 150 per cent. Last year, which has clearly benefited the largest cars and therefore not ordinary people. In relation to the car tax area, our position is that we want to make a change and we want to make a change that ensures that the environmentally friendly cars and it will most often be the small cars that become cheaper, while polluting cars and also luxury cars are becoming more expensive. That's because in Enhedslisten's optics, when we think about cars, as well as we think about so much else, we both have a red and a green angle on the problem. So we want to make the environmentally friendly cars cheaper and we want to make luxury cars and polluting cars more expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209121551	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209121553	The reduction in the registration fee on last year's Finance Act was more beneficial to ordinary people than the reduction we are implementing now. It led to a greater saving in ordinary sedans, which in other countries are ordinary family cars, but the rapporteur did not answer my question. Why under Enhedslisten not quite ordinary middle-income families, low-income families in Denmark, that they should be able to afford to buy ordinary cars that increase the welfare and opportunities of these families? Why under Enhedslisten not ordinary families that? There is no registration fee in many other countries with which we usually compare ourselves. There is a better chance for ordinary families to buy ordinary cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209121645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209121647	We certainly want people to buy a car. Many people live in the countryside and they need a car. There are parts of the country where there is no public transport that is good enough to be spared a car. But we must then take a position on what kind of car we have and what kind of cars we want to promote and what sort of distribution profile there should be on taxes. There we just say: let us make small cars and environmentally friendly cars cheaper, but let us make expensive cars and polluting cars more expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209121723	The next brief remark is from Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209121727	Thank you. I hadn't actually prepared to ask a question, but I think it's gonna be a little interesting. Because now we are going to talk about ordinary people and unusual people, just like the bad people, those who drive expensive cars. They are certainly not common, because the rapporteur says: ordinary people who buy a car. Then the others must be out of the ordinary. So I would like to ask: why is it that you are uncommon if you, as a Dane, choose to drive a slightly larger car? I would also like to ask something else: can the rapporteur document his claim that small, cheap cars are more environmentally friendly than more expensive and bigger cars? Is that a claim, or is that something the rapporteur actually knows?
ParlaMint-DK_20161209121806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209121808	At any rate, we know that many small cars run a long way on the gallon, depending on the type of car concerned. We know that the reduction in registration charges proposed here does not distinguish between whether a car is an environmentally friendly car or whether a car is not an environmentally friendly car. What I am saying in all silence is that if we are to change the registration fee, we are ready for it on the part of the Enhedslisten, but then let us do so in a way that we ensure that the cars that are environmentally friendly are cheaper, or at least not more expensive, while the cars that do not drive so far on the gallon, the cars that pollute more, are becoming more expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209121848	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209121851	Then I can tell you that the middle-class cars go farther on the gallon than the small cars do. But I would really like answers to the question of when you are an ordinary citizen. What kind of car class do you drive when you're unusual? The rapporteur is very interested in ordinary citizens. When is it then that a citizen becomes uncommon?
ParlaMint-DK_20161209121910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209121912	It's common, as people are most, you might say. It is a question of organising a policy which benefits the large majority and which, at least, does not mean for those people who already have a great deal of tax relief in recent years and who are privileged, live in a large house and have been favoured by tax reductions in a large number of areas in recent years, that we go further along that path, but that we look at how we can create a more equal society, while looking at what we can change from legislation to the creation of the green transition that we, at least on the part of the Enhedslisten, are very interested in, and also like much faster than it is at present.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209121958	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209122013	Thank you. One of the main concerns of the Liberal Alliance is the abolition of registration fees. Last year's Finance Act reduced the registration fee from 180%. 150 per cent.; we were incredibly happy about that. By this year's Finance Act, we again reduced the registration fee by increasing the limit on when the full registration fee will be paid, i.e. from DKK 84,600. DKK 106,600. for passenger cars and from 26,700 DKK. DKK 33.600. On motorcycles. Thank you very much from LA to DF, the Left and the Conservative People's Party for carrying this proposal through. Having a car is a necessity for a great many Danes. It's not a luxury item. If you live outside the big cities, you simply cannot do without it. In these years, there is a lot of talk about making it more attractive to live outside the big cities. The abolition of registration tax will do a great deal to promote that purpose. But a great many citizens of cities cannot survive without having a car. Most families of children will not be able to make everyday life hang together without a car, and everyone who owns a car knows that it increases your freedom; it provides higher mobility and more opportunities • it simply allows you to have more good experiences. A car makes the world smaller, and you save time that you can spend on other things. That's probably why the car has become so popular all over the world. Having a car simply increases the welfare of ordinary people and all Danes. When you read this bill, it is quite incomprehensible to me that some people can agree that we have a registration fee at all. The immediate loss of revenue for the Treasury is with this 725 million bill. kr., but after changed behaviour and backflow, the loss of revenue is reduced to 225 million. kr. This is because a lower registration fee makes working more attractive and therefore increases employment. In future, therefore, citizens will have to pay 725 million. kr. less in registration fee, but the Treasury only misses 225 million. kr. This means that there is a very high degree of self-financing by lowering the registration fee. After all, a very high level of self-financing means that a loss of prosperity in society arises by having the tax or tax in question, and therefore a very high loss of welfare arises. This also means that the registration fee does not significantly contribute to more redistribution, but therefore costs prosperity and welfare. That is why all parties should be in favour of abolishing the registration tax. It should not be a question of ideology, but of common sense. We're taking a small step with this bill, but we're not done. Of course, we can support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209122405	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209122412	Thank you. First, I'm going to hurry up to have an illusion in the ground. In the alternative, we like cars, we have nothing against cars. We sometimes have a problem with those cars that make a huge impression on our climate, but cars we like, and cars are essential and necessary for our society to be able to connect. We have worked with models such as road pricing, which is on the right track internationally, in relation to the fact that it can start to be done. Today, one of the main challenges for us is to introduce a road pricing system that would be very good for the environment and also useful, so that when you lived on the edge of Denmark, you could pay less per person. mileage than those who lived in the cities, so that a level playing field was created there, some problems with regard to surveillance and the legal certainty that might be involved in not being tracked all the time while driving your car. There are also solutions on that front. But we look forward to having a debate on such things as road pricing in the coming years at home. When you hold it up against the climate targets set and where you have an ambition on the part of the European Union to reduce emissions by 30%. By 2030 compared to 2005, this is the wrong direction to go, although we do not mind people getting cheaper cars. The problem is simply that they are driving in them, which is why we need to be careful in time and say that if a car on average lasts, I do not remember what the exact figure is, but I think there are some figures that say about 15 years, then at least we have a challenge compared to 2030, if we have a massive boom in the car purchase right now, and the car purchase is actually peaking right in these years. So that's where we have a challenge. We are going to drive in more sustainable cars, but we cannot expect everyone to switch to electricity right now. I was out buying a car myself recently, and I just couldn't see it hanging together for me if I had to have an electric car, it was too problematic and troublesome, but stop it, how would I like it? So I ended up in a hybrid solution like that instead of, after all, better than what I had before. But we are fully understanding that it is not just something you change over to. It is therefore also important to say that the proposal that has been made here should not be put in the box where it is said that only the rich will benefit from it. I can follow very well the arguments put forward by, among others. Liberal Alliance, which says that many of these cars, which are now becoming cheaper, are quite ordinary cars, and I think that is correct. However, if we are generally opposed to the need for more cars on the roads, which are environmentally unsustainable, then of course we cannot say yes to this solution either. That is why we in the alternative are totally opposed to this bill. Otherwise, we will back up the idea that you should be allowed to have a car forward-looking, but then we will have to invest in the collective modes of transport at home so that it will be just about possible to act, even if you live in the outskirts, without a car or perhaps just with a car that is more environmentally friendly. Today it is not that way that everything is being invested, too little in public transport, and the best solutions that are right at the moment. In those areas where we do not have adequate public transport, such things as co-driving, because trains and buses cannot do so for those who live the longest distance from the cities and must have flexibility in their daily lives. This is by no means a denial of the need for a car in many areas of Denmark. Those who then find it difficult to buy those cars, which are perhaps the most safe and the most sustainable, will help in the alternative in every possible other way to ensure that we achieve greater equality in society, and our tax base and our good distribution in society will be further improved constantly. I have to say, in relation to some of the contracting parties involved in this bill, that I do not quite see that it is the least well-off in society that we are trying to help in general. So we say no, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209122804	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209122810	This bill actually helps some people. So, the rapporteur says that the alternative will help in all sorts of other ways, but there are not all kinds of other ways to help people who need a car. There is this way, and it actually helps some citizens • it makes it cheaper to afford the car that the rapporteur so rightly says many need. But I think that these are some really bad arguments, and the rapporteur lists them and others also use them for having a car or wishing for a car has nothing to do with your income. One can easily have a very, very high income and have no need for a car at all. You can also have a very low income or a more general income and need a car. And that is one of the problems of having a registration fee at all. I am also against the progression elsewhere in the tax system, but one can say that it is after all the case that you have a high income and even if you pay the same tax per cent then they contribute high incomes most in kroner and ear. But here we have a treasure that has nothing to do with your income. Does the rapporteur not consider this to be an unfortunate principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20161209122936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209122939	I should just like to think about where we disagreed, because I fully agree with much of what the rapporteur says. It does not necessarily have anything to do with whether you make much or little money, whether you need a car. In fact, I find it very difficult to argue that this should have something to do with it. But what I am saying is that those who do not have such a high income and need a car can be supported in other ways. It is, of course, just as in the alternative we would like to put taxes on other consumer goods or needs in order to put something extra in the common fund that is needed. Here you can help with, as we have proposed, a doubling of the green check, for example. When we impose taxes on something, it is essential that those who have the lowest incomes do not get it proportionately harder for that reason. So I'm not really sure we're so disagreeable. We totally disagree politically on this point because we do not want more cars to be on the road, because they put a climate impression that we do not want and which is quite wrong with what we have promised the European Union. But in EU matters, we may also be even more in favour of Denmark's drawing a load and not just enjoying it. So, both EU cooperation and how we want to act nationally, we are totally opposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209123052	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209123054	When the alternative can recognise that having a need for a car has nothing to do with how high an income you have, it is a mystery to me that you think it might be a good idea to have a registration fee at all and that you will not help reduce it. I must say, it's a mystery to me. I am also of the opinion that the environmental debate must always be seen in relation to how expensive it is to do something to improve the environment, and here it is extremely expensive. In other words, it is extremely expensive to do something about the environment by having a high registration fee because it has some other effects out there in society • lower mobility, lower prosperity etc. Should it not also be taken into account when you want to do something for the environment? And why does the alternative not do so if yes is answered?
ParlaMint-DK_20161209123153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209123154	There is often a misinterpreting of the Alternative's policy in relation to the fact that there are some bottom lines that are more important than others. In other words, we have a three-tier bottom line when we make our accounts and budgets: it is the environmental, social and economic. So it should not be such a galimatia view that now we want to save the environment, and then we forget the social • I think it was Enhedslisten's rapporteur who said that they have both a red and a green bottom line • and we should not forget the economics either. When I say that it is essential to say no to this for us, it is of course because we believe that in the long term the economic bottom line is extremely well linked to the environmental and sustainable bottom line, because if we do not invest properly now, we are also not in the innovation that creates the best cars in Denmark and the best technologies in our factories and workplaces. So we would like to push on that, although there may be an immediate, short-term, lack of income due to some flexibility. This simply means that we need to invest even more in infrastructure.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209123249	Thank you. There's one more questioner, sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209123252	Thank you. When I hear the rapporteur's speech, I think it is actually very positive. First of all, I would like to sign off on the fact that you are not against cars, because this is really very important in a society like Denmark, where things are very much going on around the cities. That is why the people who live outside the cities actually need cars. Then the rapporteur also says that what matters to the Alternative is the environment, social policy and the economy. It was in that order. I don't know if that's in the order it matters, but that's how it was said. Well, when you look at this proposal, isn't it just to the right? So, as far as the environment is concerned, there is no doubt that if we buy newer and better cars, we will also have a better environment, i.e. by getting some of the old cars out and getting some new cars in. Socially, the highest housing prices are in and around the cities. The lower housing prices are on the periphery, out in the province, where people then need a car to commute in. Well, it has a good social profile. And if the economy is to be said, as we have also discussed here, that this can be done within the economic framework, while families actually also have a better economy, because they get a car that is cheaper in operation and which is also far, much cheaper to use, because it drives longer on the litre and therefore is taxed less. That is why it has to be said that the alternative could actually be cut off by all parameters. So why is the alternative not going to vote in favour of this proposal, which is actually on the right?
ParlaMint-DK_20161209123413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209123414	Well, we have these three bottom lines, as I said, the social, the economic and the environmental lines that are actually sidelined. So when I just mention them in one order or another, it's arbitrary. I am now moving a little into deep water, because I would say that if environmental issues were dealt with in other ways by the current government, I would not really think that a reduction in the registration fee was the worst. Well, I guess we could find out in the alternative, and this is where I'm in deep water to go in to lower registration fees. Nor do I think that reducing the top tax is necessarily the most evil thing we have in the world. But if, on all sorts of other parameters of the policy pursued, what else should compensate for saying yes to something like this is cut back, then we cannot go in and say yes in any way. So that must be the short answer. The long thing is in the tradition in which I also answered Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, namely that it is our whole vision that we should have fewer cars on the roads of those who make an environmentally bad impression. The day when our cars also produce greener prints, we will have nothing against them. Sometimes an empty bus can pollute more than x number of cars. So we're not so dogmatic about it, but right here it's perfectly clear that this progression that's going to be lowering the registration fee is bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209123531	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209123532	Thank you. I think that was a very constructive answer to this question, and then I just have one last question. After all, the rapporteur used himself as an example, namely that the rapporteur had just bought himself a new car and that it had been chosen not to buy an electric car, but a hybrid car, that is, a combination car. It's at the end of the line. Some of this is new technology and there is no special consideration given to this type of car. And then I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether he feels normal or abnormal in relation to the purchase made by the rapporteur. Because we have heard from the Enhedslisten that there are the normal citizens and then the abnormal ones and that it can be measured by which cars they buy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209123609	It is probably interesting to clarify, but that is probably on the edge of the subject, I would say. But the rapporteur must respond as he pleases.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209123616	I think that is an interesting question. I'll go out of the normality discussion and say I'm an alternative. But in addition to that, I would like to say that the car I have bought is so much a privilege. In other words, the worst investment you can make is in a car like this because it loses value just as you drive off in it. But it is a privilege to be allowed to buy such a car, and I sit in the Folketing and get a nice salary. Before I came in here, I got a good salary too, so I'm so much at the privileged end. It is quite normal for many to be, so I would like us to create solutions in terms of transport, which made it possible to drive sustainably and that it was cheap, and it is really hard to do so. It is also difficult to build a house sustainably, I should say hello.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209123654	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209123705	Thank you. I have been allowed to take this matter for us, and perhaps it is really very appropriate that the child rapporteur should take it, since what we are discussing today is what is the family policy of the Liberal Alliance, namely cheaper cars. In the Radical Left, we believe in something a little different. What I am concerned about, and what we in the Radical Left are concerned with, is that we have present educators in our day care institutions and that we have enough of them, that we have more teachers in our schools and, in general, succeed with the open school, and that we have good education, so that it opens doors for everyone. So when we have to make a plan and decide what it is we want to spend the money on, that is what we give priority to, because we believe that education is the most important thing. The government has chosen something else. The government has chosen to shave down all our educations, so in return among others. to do what we are discussing today, namely to provide for cheaper cars. We in the Radical Left think this is a poor priority. In fact, I would say that of all the tax concessions you could come up with, this is probably what is furthest away from the Radical Left. If it had at least been about facilitating the tax at work, we could have discussed it, but this proposal seems to us to indicate a wrong way of spending the money, which is why we are against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209123833	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209123849	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by expressing my thanks for the support that has been given to the draft law. Maybe that's not so surprising. This results in part of the financial agreement between the former one-party left and the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party. With this bill, which has also been mentioned in the debate, we are reducing the registration fee by increasing the volume from DKK 84 600. DKK 106,600. for passenger cars and for motorcycles from DKK 26,700. DKK 33.600. After all, we are doing so because it has been agreed in the Finance Act, and I, as Minister for Taxation, am pleased about that. I'm happy every time it's possible to abolish a tax or lower a tax... in this case, the registration fee... because we have a tax burden in Denmark that's too high. Then, of course, we can discuss politically how to reduce taxes. The main priority of the then Left Government has been to do something about lowering the tax on working, and this is also reflected in the new government basis. When it is fine to lower the registration fee, it is about the fact that even after the reduction that was last year, from 180%. 150 per cent. and with the increase in the scale, which somewhere also corresponds to a reduction, the Danish registration fee remains among the world's highest. But with this bill we want to make it cheaper for Danes to buy more family-friendly and roadworthy cars. The tax reduction means, as I heard several rapporteurs said, that a medium-sized family car will be DKK 8 000 to 10.000. cheaper. This is less than the reduction last year and the level of self-financing is not as high, but when you have a very, very high tax in this case we had a registration fee of 180%. This has also been the case with the top tax exercise carried out by the previous government, where the border was raised. There are great effects to download in the first place. The more you raise the limit, the less you pay top tax, the less the self-financing rate becomes typical. At the same time, a reduction in the registration fee is deemed to have a positive effect on the supply of labour. There has been a little debate about this, and we can also take it if there are any questions for me as tax minister. I would like to thank you for the debate that has taken place and for the consultation responses received by the Treasury, despite the fact that the bill has been submitted for consultation with a short deadline. I am also sorry that there has not been a four-week consultation of the bill. There should have been, and there should have been all legislative proposals. However, in this case, this is due to the fact that the bill is part of the agreement on the Finance Act for 2017 and was concluded on 22 November 2016 and to the need to have the bill adopted as soon as possible in the interests of the car industry. I also believe that this is why not many of the consultation parties have been dissatisfied with the short consultation deadline. Now there has been political agreement to increase the scale, and then it is about getting it through the Folketing, so it can get out to work out in reality and car dealers and car buyers can adjust to it. Otherwise, everything's gonna freeze. I look forward to the further examination of the draft law and, of course, I am available in this Chamber today and to any questions that may arise. If, in addition to that, I should like to make a few comments on the debate that has been raised, then it must be in relation to Mr Beazley's report. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party, who was on the repair line. I can say that the former Left Government has noted that the Danish People's Party has an interest in the repair limit and also makes a sensible argument, just as the industry has done to me. Therefore, it is also a signal from the Danish People's Party that will be taken down by the entire government. This has been discussed sometimes, and I do not see any parties in the bourgeois camp as such disagreeing with the need to look at the repair limit. It has stranded a bit on the question of how much it costs and that there were some other things you would rather do. Therefore, I hope that it is possible to look at this repair limit position. I fully agree with the arguments put forward by Mr Beyer de Ryke. René Christensen argues in relation to it. That's also the signal I sent the industry when I met them. Then there is a discussion between Mr. Rune Lund of Enhedslisten and Mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance on cars and how far they go on the liter. I can confirm that, and I can confirm that from my own experience, sir. Joachim B. Olsen says it's actually middle-class cars that drive the longest on the liter, is correct. At least it is in my case. I'm the owner of a Volkswagen Polo, and I bought it because I had to have the car that went the longest on the gallon. It runs 30.3 km on 1 litre of diesel and then cost a few hundred thousand kroner. It then costs something less now because we have twice reduced the registration fee. By the way, I have also had a loss of capital. I think that is fine now, because it gives me reason to be able, next time I need a new car, to buy someone a little bigger, and I think that is actually a very good trade. In this connection, I think I can say that the slightly smaller Volkswagen, a Volkswagen up!, which is cheaper and does not get any relief in this round, runs 24.7 km of 1 litre. It is not diesel but petrol.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209124456	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. I have written up a few brief remarks. The first is sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209124502	Thank you. The comments on the repair limit seem to me to be good to make here that there has been that dialogue and also an openness to continue it. If you cannot immediately strike at it as a tax minister, it is simply that it costs some money as well. And that leads me to the quite timely, I think, and not at all inappropriate to discuss what things cost. That was a bit of the impression I got before, so it was actually a little against the fact that you did on this point what the financial effects were actually of the bill. And I would just like to ask the Minister of Taxation for an answer to what I have not been able to get an answer to so far, i.e. an explanation of what it is for a mechanism that makes it as powerful an effect on the job supply as it has been put into the calculations here, and perhaps also an indication of what does not appear from the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209124607	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209124608	In other words, as I recall, the reduction last year gave 700 full-time people in increased labour supply, and with this bill it is 450. After all, it is according to the calculation methods which are common, which are used and which the previous government also used. It is quite legitimate to question them, and I have noted that there is a Social Democratic network newspaper Piopio, I think it is called "where the head of analysis of the Workers' Industry Council speaks out and argues that it is a very old study that is at the root, and by the way, a study which is not about registration fees, but about lowering the marginal tax, and it is a study back from 2000 something or other. I would very much like to discuss studies or other things, so I have the wish as a tax minister and as a politician that we should not politicize the way we are calculated, but have the best possible basis for calculation. And that is why it is of course legitimate to discuss it, but then you have to find some room to do it in where you say that now you have to update the calculation methods you use and there are also some who criticise the way you calculate repair limits and other things and say that it is not possible that it costs so much. That's fair enough. I can also follow it in relation to some of the things, which is why I have the starting point as a politician and also as a tax minister, that I am of course looking at what the economic calculations are, but I also have other things that are at the root of my position in relation to whether something is a good or a bad idea. And in this case, it is not the labour supply that is crucial for the government, and I do not hear it being the case for the Liberal Alliance, but it is the desire to give the Danes cheaper cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209124739	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209124742	I have no doubt that this is the political intention, but when you want to do it, you look at what it costs and what the opportunity is to do it. It was precisely with the argument that the tax minister had to reject another proposal. I think it is okay that we may not be able to refer to such specific studies, but can the government then say something about whether, in the last year, when there has been a reduction in registration fees and, after all, where a very strong labour supply effect has been introduced, in society, it has been found that, with reference to cheaper cars, the labour supply and the Danes' willingness to spend hours on their work has increased?
ParlaMint-DK_20161209124835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209124836	I don't think you can, and I don't think the government has either. These are average considerations. I also believe that the debate has been held with the Liberal Alliance in the past, that is to say that we reduced the registration fee last year and revenue has increased dramatically the following year, and is it not much cheaper to lower the registration fee? And there is the answer to the Liberal Alliance, just as it is to Mr. Jesper Petersen, that you can't look at things just for a single year, you have to look at the lasting effect. And when you base it on the Ministry of Finance in relation to the way you calculated it here, and as the previous government did, that this is the lasting effect of the work offer, then I have to take it as a basis. Then it is fair enough to challenge it, but I choose not to do so in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209124915	The next question is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209124920	The government has chosen to save on all our educations in Denmark and in turn spend money making cars cheaper. Will the Minister not try to tell me why the government thinks cars are more important than education?
ParlaMint-DK_20161209124935	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209124937	I have not taken note of the fact that there is a description in the Road Traffic Code of what is called a financing crossing where it is said that we are leaving education and giving to the cars. But it is true that the government has made some improvements and savings in education, and we have done so because it is not just about how much money you spend, but also about what you get for money and a desire to increase quality. Moreover, we have proposed a reform of the SU, which saves some money on the SU and will give some of that savings back to the field of education. So I do not agree with the premise for the question, that is to say that we have taken some money from poor students and given to the rich, wealthy car owners. That's not true.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209125019	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209125021	But politics is a priority, and one could have chosen to spend the money on education rather than spend it on cheap cars. That is why I tried to ask the Minister, and I will do so again: why does the government think cars are more important than education?
ParlaMint-DK_20161209125036	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209125038	Now I have spent my speaking time saying that I did not accept the paragraph, so I could of course repeat that, but if I have to put forward an argument which might give Mrs Lotte Rod an understanding, it is of course that there are also a lot of students who need a car to get to an educational institution, and if you have a car as a Dane, as a student or non-student, it can give you freedom and mobility and access to jobs and education and a number of other things. So having a car isn't just a good thing for people who don't study. It can also be a good thing for the students, so they also get joy, not necessarily from this lowering, but at least from the lowering last year.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209125113	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209125119	I have two things. One thing is whether the Minister can confirm that if you replace an old, large car which consumes a lot of petrol per year. driven kilometers, with a smaller and newer car, then there will be a positive environmental account in that account. That's one thing. The second point is whether the Minister can confirm that, in relation to the reduction in the registration fee that we are discussing in this proposal, no specific consideration has been given to the reduction of certain taxes which actively promote green conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209125153	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209125155	I can confirm both. It goes without saying that if you take an old car and replace it with a new one, that car, at least in an average view, will be more environmentally friendly, will drive longer on the liter, and this will lead, hopefully, to more buying cars, more buying cars, too, and in some cases it cannot be ruled out that it can actually lead to them buying more environmentally friendly cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209125222	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209125224	Then it seems that we are about to agree on the facts of this debate. But why does the government want to make a reduction in this way when you could make a reduction, if that is what you want, as such actively promoted the most environmentally friendly cars, because that is not what you do in this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20161209125246	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209125247	As Mr. Joachim B. Olsen mentioned that there are a number of middle-class cars that are experiencing lower taxation, and in a number of cases those middle-class cars are more environmentally friendly, so I do not think it is entirely possible to conclude that, as Mr. Rune Lund does. But it is true that this increase in the scale this year and the reduction last year did not, of course, primarily have an environmental aim. That is absolutely right. It was the more from such a fair view that we have a very, very high registration fee on cars, and we have a desire that more Danes should be able to afford a car and that more Danes should be able to afford a more family- and safety-friendly car. Fortunately, in many cases it is also a more environmentally friendly car, but not in all.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209125335	We'll thank the tax minister. As no one else has wished to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161209125349	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 13 December 2016, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
