ParlaMint-DK_20160303100005	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for the Environment and Food (Esben Lunde Larsen): Bill no. L 147 (Proposal for a Law on the Environmental Assessment of Plans and Programmes and of Concrete Projects (EIA)) and Bill No. L 148 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Planning, Law on Environmental Approval, etc.) of livestock farming, law on the use of Denmark's underground, law on the promotion of renewable energy and various other laws. as a result of the Act on Environmental Assessment of Plans and Programmes and of Specific Projects (EIA). Jakob Sølvhøj (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 83 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the possibility of setting up private services). Christian Poll (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 84 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the procurement of sustainable fish and shellfish in the public sector). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20160303100101	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Left, Morten Løkkegaard, be approved as a representative of the European Parliament as from 3 March 2016, after Ulla Tørnæ was appointed Minister on 29 February 2016. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303100127	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 109 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303100157	I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Left in the Copenhagen Omregns Storkreds, Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt, be approved as an ordinary member of the Folketing as from 3 March 2016, when Morten Løkkegaard resigns his mandate to join the European Parliament. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303100221	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 108 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303100258	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303100321	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour, 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) [on the other hand, 0 abstained]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303100354	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303100413	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 101 (S, DF, V, EL, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 8 (LA), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303100444	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303100459	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0 [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303100532	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303100552	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 91 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT and KF) voted against 18 (EL, RV and SF), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303100632	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 15 March 2016. Firstly, the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, the Socialist People's Party. We need a little quiet in the Chamber so that the rapporteur can begin his speech. We'll just wait a minute until it's quiet. Now I think it's there. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303100732	SF has raised the question debate today, hoping that the Folketing will come to the help of the North Sea and the marine environment. We believe that the state should contribute financially in solving the task of Høfde 42. Høfde 42 may sound a little technical, but all of us who travel to the North Sea every year to enjoy it, or the many Western Jutlanders living in the North Sea, know how important the North Sea is. It is not just for tourism; it is not just for fishermen; it is for the whole environment in Western Jutland. That is why it is so crucial that we resolve the problem of Høfte 42. Is it urgent? Does it have more to do with it than it has done in the past? Yes, it certainly does. Because there should be no doubt that the last very large storms we have seen, among others. The storm Bodil and other 100-year storms have had consequences for Høfde 42. I know that there are many West Jutlanders who have written to the Danish Parliament and have sent pictures of what the situation is at polite 42 and therefore I think it is a little crucial that we focus on how close we are to the fact that Høfde 42 can actually end up in the sea at the next storm. Last night I stood out at polite 42 and, where the Ministry of the Environment says that there are 32 metres from the edge of the depot and out to the water, I have to admit that this is certainly not the case, since the water was up at the edge of the depot and on its way around the depot. That is why we need to have the discussion today. That is why we want the question debate. We don't just think this is West Jutland's problem. We believe that this is the whole of Denmark's problem and that we have a shared responsibility for it. We also have that because the state itself has contributed to the poison on the ground, and that is why the state will also have to contribute if we are to honour the polluter-pays principle. So I look forward to a question debate. I look forward to hearing what the various parties are going to say, because I have noted that all the parties have been out, at least locally, and support that the state should contribute to a clean-up of the site, i.e. of Høfde 42. I hope, then, that the parliamentary parties will subsequently support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303100942	Thanks to the questioner. Then it's the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303101003	Thank you. The pollution at Høfte 42 has been the subject of a number of questions from the Committee on the Environment and Food which have been answered on a regular basis. In the light of the previous questions, I interpret the question as indicating that the questioner fears that the poison depot at Høfde 42 at Harboøre Tange is being washed in the sea and that the questioner therefore believes that pollution should be eliminated as soon as possible. I would like to start by stating that under the soil pollution law, it is the regions that are responsible for public action against soil pollution. This also applies to pollution at Høfde 42, where it is the Central Denmark Region that is responsible. The regions receive approx. 420 million kr. each year for that task, and they give priority to efforts to deal with soil pollution, which poses the greatest risk to human health and the environment. I am fully confident that the regions will carry out their tasks in the best possible way, in accordance with this priority. The pollution at Høfte 42 dates from the period 1953-62 when Cheminova was authorised to discharge waste water from production to a dune pot. The State also deposited some 40 tonnes of chemical waste in the dune pot, and together more than 1,000 tonnes were deposited. In 1971 and 1981 the state eliminated most of the pollution, but a residue was left under the groundwater mirror where it was difficult to dig. The residual contamination consists of approx. 110 tonnes of pesticide residues and approx. 7 tonnes of mercury. In 2006, the Danish EPA and the then Ringkøbing County carried out a housing of most of the residual pollution. The encapsulation consists of a 14 m deep spun wall, which surrounds the depot. On top of the depot is a waterproof membrane. The encapsulation is built to withstand flooding. At the same time, extensive coastal protection was established on the sea side of the depot. Both the enclosure and the coast protection are built to withstand very strong storms and high tides. This also applies to storms such as those we have seen in recent years and of which we expect more in the future. Region Midtjylland continues to maintain the enclosure and to check that there is no leakage of pollution. The region is in continuous dialogue with the Coastal Directorate on the possible need for increased coastal protection around the depot due to climate change. The stronger storms and higher water levels expected in the coming years will only require more maintenance of coastal protection around the depot. The region considers that the containment and coastal protection of Høfte 42 is stable and therefore Høfte 42 does not pose any risk. I quote from Region Midtjylland's note on Høfde 42 from 4 February this year: The overall assessment, when the monitoring and monitoring are compared, is that the plant is in a generally good condition. The spuns appear close, and the monitoring of the cathodic systems shows good protection against corrosion. Monitoring in the sea shows that the spun wall prevents the leakage of contaminated substances from the depot to the North Sea. With regard to life expectancy, the region writes the following, and I quote: With the ongoing maintenance and monitoring, the lifespan of the plant is expected to remain at least 25 years old. In 2013, the Soil Pollution Act was amended so that consideration of surface water and international natural areas should systematically be included in public action against soil pollution. The amendment was adopted by a broad majority and with a SF as the minister responsible at that time. She has since become radical, but I expect that she will continue to mean what she was aiming for then, even in spite of the change in the party. The amendment of the law means that up to 2018 the regions will have to provide an overview of where action is needed against pollution that threatens surface water or international natural areas. It is clear that there may be a need for action now and here if there is a pollution that poses an acute threat, but that is not the case here. Therefore, I think there is good sense in giving the regions time to get an overview of the soil pollution that threatens surface water, so that we have the best possible basis for assessing the order in which pollutions are to be handled.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303101453	Thank you, Minister. It's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr first.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303101509	I mean, it's not like Høfte 42 is a new case. It is no surprise to anyone that the site is contaminated and that Cheminova has a great responsibility for it. Cheminova contaminated the site from 1953 to 1962, and the State, as the Minister also pointed out, contributed poison and increased pollution, among other things. 1961. You just have to admit that pollution is violent. When the poison began to leak to the North Sea, several measures were taken: in 1981, when parts of the poison depot were removed; in 2003, in the county, after very intense pressure from the then County Council member, Mrs Anna Marie Touborg, decided to build a spuns around the depot, it was built in 2006, a spuns, which was estimated at the time and in several notes to hold the poison back for 10-15 years. It was 2006. We're in 2016 now. The minister then says on the platform that it is now estimated in the region that it is 25 more years. This was certainly not the starting point at which the spunsen was built. It is, of course, essential to look at. The reason I'm saying all this is to put the discussion in the open. It has been a long, tough fight, both in the region, in the municipality and, as such, in the state too, to put this agenda and get something done about it. It is not new at Christiansborg, nor is it new in West Jutland, and the time has come for us to act. What's the rush? I believe that the Minister is overlooking the climate change that we are facing. We can see from question 519 that the Minister has replied that out of the last 20 hundred years of storms, 18 of them have been within the last 50 years. It's been violent. We've been able to see it with, among other things. the effect of the storm Bodil. What I think is rather the challenge in the answers we have received is that the Minister leaves the assessment of the impact of climate change on the depot alone to the region and COWI, which is based on a Dutch model back in 1986. I imagine that more modern methods could be used, not least modern computer models. Now, if we get a few more storms, what would prevent the depot from slipping at sea? I know we've all got pictures of it. We can see that the entire depot is now surrounded by water. It doesn't take much for the water to get behind the depot and pull the entire depot at sea, that is to say into our common North Sea. We cannot be aware of this and we have a responsibility for that. Then why should the state contribute? After all, the minister is right that the regions are responsible for the land pollution cases in Denmark and that the state is constantly spending 400 million. kr. annual to ensure that the regions have the funding for it. All we have to do is recognise that it is far from enough money if we are to be able to lift the major soil pollution cases. In addition, there's the simple difference between this particular soil pollution case and others, and that's why I don't think it should be a precedent if we clean up at Høfde 42 that the state has contributed. If we in Denmark pay tribute to the polluter-pays principle, then the state must also help finance the clean-up at Høfde 42. There should be no doubt that I, too, would very much like to see Cheminova contribute to this or Aarhus University and others because, in general terms, I believe that the polluter pays is a principle that we should pay tribute to. We have to take responsibility for Høfte 42. We can then ask: does Cheminova not have any responsibility? Unfortunately, they do not have a legal judgment, but I believe they have a moral responsibility to contribute to the clean-up as well. So is this something that isn't potential in? Because it can certainly be said that there are plenty of challenges, not least for the North Sea, for fishermen and for people living in the area. But there are also some options in cleaning up, and that is some of what I think is being overlooked in this discussion. We have a large Danish company, Krüger, which is currently acting and acting in Vietnam in relation to major soil pollution cases. They are cleaning up after project Orange, and we know that they are looking at very dangerous chemicals and help clean them up. This means that we have a Danish company which is engaged in new clean-up methods in connection with soil pollution cases. It might be interesting to look at it, because it really means that we could also create a completely new export option. In conclusion, if this land had been on Amager or at Gilleleje Strand, please nap me if it had not been cleaned up long ago with government subsidies I might suspect so. Now the Minister has stressed on several occasions that there are 32 metres from storage to water. I have a leash with me, and I have an offer to the Minister that we go together to the North Sea. I stand at the edge of the depot, and the minister goes out 32 meters. I do not expect the Minister to walk on the water, so I would suggest to the Minister that he bring a swim vest. I would like to make the following proposals for adoption on behalf of the SF, Enhedslisten, Alternative and Radical Left: Proposals for adoption Since the 1970s, the extensive pollutions at Høfte 42 due to the landfill of toxic waste from Cheminova and the state have been seen as a unique issue. Climate change means that there is an increasing likelihood that a particularly severe weather event with an unfortunate coincidence in duration, wind direction and water height will break a hole in the depot. The consequences for the aquatic environment, local communities and cities on the West Coast and the Limfjord will be very extensive. The Danish Parliament therefore invites the government to enter into a new dialogue with the region of Central Jutland on the removal of the toxic depot, focusing on developing Danish environmental technology competence for use in other pollutions, so as to avoid transport to and from landfilling abroad. Finally, the government is encouraged to find funding to remove the custody of the Finance Acts from 2017 onwards, including examining the possibility of funding from the former shareholders, assuming that the region as in the past is ready to cover half. • V 26)
ParlaMint-DK_20160303102135	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. Then there is a comment from Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303102145	Thank you. I think that all parties take this matter very seriously, and I think that will be stated in the course of the debate here. I have two questions, and the first is: does the rapporteur for the SF not have confidence in the authorities and in the assessments which are already in place and which have now been explained by the Minister? It could then be a little interesting to hear how many times Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr has actually visited the area. I could understand that she visited it yesterday, but did Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr also visit it, as the SF himself had the office of Minister for the Environment not long ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303102219	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303102221	I can tell you that I think I have visited Høfte 42 four or five times in total, I have not only visited Høfte 42 yesterday. And I'd be happy to go out there with mr. Erling Bonnesen doesn't have to do that, and I'll also be happy to bring the Minister for the Environment, because I think it's crucial that we also get more focus on it in the Danish Parliament. I do not think it is a surprise to the rapporteur that the SF has pursued this matter in the Folketing since the 1980s. Margrete Auken has worked on several occasions here on the Danish Parliament's platform to clean up the Cheminova site and has put quite a lot of pressure on it, among other things. When the first clean-up was started in 1981. So of course SF has confidence in the authorities, but the authorities also have to be looked over the shoulder sometimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303102308	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303102310	Thank you. It is good to hear that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr also has confidence in the authorities and the bodies that exist. But what did Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and SF do quite specifically when SF himself sat in government and had the office of Environment Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303102328	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303102330	Now I was not the environmental rapporteur or, for that matter, the Environment Minister, but the SF has been working on soil pollution cases, including in government, and Mr. Erling Bonnesen should be aware that SF in connection with the Finance Act 2015 was working on precisely Høfde 42 being part of the Finance Act. Unfortunately, that was not possible, but we have fought for it all the way through. The reason I'm saying this is because this isn't something we just made up yesterday or a week ago. SF has been fighting for this case ever since it became clear that there was a soil pollution case in West Jutland, and we have actually taken the long tough move in the municipality, region and state.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303102410	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303102425	Thank you, Madam President. There should be no doubt that we in the Social Democratic Party are very concerned and on long stretches together with all other parties here in the Folketing share the concerns raised by the SF in this question debate. Therefore, our former Minister for the Environment Kirsten Brosbøl has also visited Høfde 42 during our previous government's time. This is, of course, also a matter on which the Social Democrats are deeply concerned, and if we did not do anything and do nothing, it would be very problematic, but we are actually doing something together to try to solve this issue, because it is one of the biggest environmental disasters in Danish history. Fortunately, we have become wiser and do not do anything like this anymore, so of course there is a bill for the whole of society that we have to deal with in the best way. So that's what we're doing. I must be one of the first to regret that the solution to getting more contributors has not entirely succeeded. Even if you do not have a legal responsibility, you have a moral responsibility. There are also those in the ownership circle who want to take on that. It has not succeeded quite, because the best thing was, of course, to have it removed completely and perhaps also to use this new technology that exists to clean up the place instead of transport over long distances. So there are a lot of things. But that is also the work that has been set in motion. But that cannot change the view of the Social Democrats at the time that it is a matter for the regions to clean up after Cheminova pollution, and that line has not changed since then. After all, the state also has an agreement with the regions that by 2019 an overview of the pollution that threatens lakes, ports, watercourses, etc. should be established. After that, the state and the regions will have to negotiate which pollution should be cleaned up first, so that we can ensure that the most acute problems are solved first. Social democracy therefore believes that we should wait for this work to ensure that we use our resources best and where it makes the most sense. That is why I believe that, on the basis of the most recent answer to the Danish Parliament, we can defend that, among other things. It is clear that the Government and the State consider that the so-called spun wall must be replaced at the earliest every 25 years. Storm protection has been taken into account during construction according to the same principle as for bridges. The coastline will remain in place for the next 30 years if the coastline agreements are complied with, and we must therefore be aware that the agreements are just being complied with so that we can add so that the coast does not erode. Furthermore, it appears that the spun wall has not been exposed to visible damage and that it is not leaking from the depot. Finally, the area is monitored by both the Coastal Directorate and the region, and that is why we can say that if there is a situation that is different from the one we know, we are, of course, ready to move on to it, but we would like to wait for what is happening in 2019. So, against this background, the Social Democrats believe that it makes sense to let the regions finish their work and have a discussion in 2019 so that we ensure that we use the funds to eliminate pollution in the best possible way. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party, together with the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party, supports this adoption text, which I shall now read to the Danish Parliament, so that it can be included later in the forthcoming negotiations. The proposal for adoption of F 13 on Høfte 42 reads: Proposal for adoption The Parliament recognises that the regions, cf. The law on soil pollution is responsible for public action against soil pollution. The Danish Parliament notes that the State eliminated most of the pollution at Høfte 42 in 1971 and 1981. In 2006, the State and Ringkjøbing County encapsulated most of the remaining pollution. The Danish Parliament notes that the Central Jutland Region considers that the enclosure is dense and can last at least 25 years yet. The ongoing maintenance and monitoring of the density of the depot means that there is no pollution risk at present. Climate change makes it necessary, in relation to coastal protection, to continuously assess whether the depot remains safe. The Danish Parliament notes that the regions have until 2018 to provide an overview of where action is needed against soil pollution that threatens surface water and international natural areas. In 2019, the State and the regions will then negotiate priorities and funding for further action towards them. V 27).
ParlaMint-DK_20160303102902	Thank you. I'll tell you, there's a little noise in the house that we're trying to stop. We don't really know where it's coming from, but we'll find out. I hope you can concentrate anyway. There are a few questions, and first it is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303102918	Thank you very much. I think we should be very careful in this matter that it is not too easy to say that some others are responsible, in this case the regions. It is a very high risk that we are running by having many, many tons of poison lying in a depot right out to the North Sea, when we know with climate change that we will experience more violent and violent weather phenomena, which can be very difficult to predict the consequences of and predict the strength of. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether we do not have to take responsibility in here now because the risk is simply too great and the consequences, if Høfte 42 breaks up due to extreme weather phenomena, are simply catastrophic. And it is a totally unfair situation in which we place a whole lot of citizens in West Jutland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303103025	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303103027	I fully share Maria Reumert Gjerding's analysis that we are dealing here with a problem created by the sins of the past. And I also share the concern about more extreme weather on the basis of climate change. So we in the Social Democratic Party are certainly also worried that something more can happen. But we have and it's being watched. Once we have set in motion the work that should result in there having to be a new debate around 2018-19, at the same time as it is being kept under constant review, we think that you are in good shape compared to this. We would like to see a solution, and we would also like to recommend once again that a solution be found to which more people contribute, because at least one has a moral responsibility, because one was not wiser then. It was completely crazy to put so many tons of mercury and pesticide residues, etc. into a dune pot out by the North Sea. We fully agree with the problem, but we would like to wait for the work that has been started.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303103135	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303103137	But now that the state has received an extraordinary income from the tax on dividends as a result of the sale of Cheminova, I do not understand why this opportunity is not being used here to say: we must now allocate the necessary funds to clean up. The problem is that year and year pass and that we are at risk of the extreme weather event that is causing this to collapse. And it can be impossible to predict, regardless of all the risk analyses. It may be impossible to foresee that this will happen and the consequences, if these tons of poison get into our marine environment, are • and I hope that the rapporteur can agree with me in disaster.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303103223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303103224	I fully agree that 110 tonnes of pesticide residues, which are estimated to be left, and 7 tonnes of mercury will be a disaster without equal if there is a release. That's why we've done something. And that is also why we are saying: let us now have this debate and get those studies in play so that we can see how it is. Because we are not going to treat this area differently from all sorts of other things, it also sets a precedent and so on. In the social democracy we do not run from the agreements we ourselves have been involved in, but we share the view that this can have very, very serious consequences. Therefore, we are also on guard all the time, and if something happens, we get indications that something is happening, and we will of course also press for a faster solution than the one proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303103308	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303103311	I'll take note of that, sir. Bjarne Laustsen refers to the fact that the Høfde 42 depot is the responsibility of the region, according to the Soil Pollution Act, and the Minister does so fairly enough. However, if you take note of the replies sent by the Minister before the question debate today, then the Minister also stresses that if you are affected financially as a fisherman or local resident in the area or inside the Limfjord after a collapse of the depot, the region cannot be made financially responsible. Then the region It is, despite the fact that we have just pointed to the region as those in charge. So in reality it must be the state that is financially responsible when the fishermen or local residents get into trouble. Should we not therefore make this a little better together and show a little care in good time so that it is not the fisherman and the local resident who can actually risk sitting on the bill? It is not, of course, connected with the fact that one can be financially responsible on one point, but that one is not on the other. Can the Socialists not agree with the SF that we need to get the drill out further so that it does not end up with fishermen and local residents without anyone who can really compensate them for some very severe damage?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303103430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303103431	I agree with Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr that the conditions must be the same, whether you are in government together or you are now in opposition. I understand you want to run this case. That's fair enough. I also believe that the SF is aware of this on a large number of points, while in government, has been working for improvements in everything in the environmental field, and that is fine. But back then, we made this deal that we have to deal with it that way. Those were the announcements, and we will live up to them. What could change that was if there were any indications that the project we've been doing together up there doesn't hold that it's starting to leak, or there are some other indications. Then we are ready to look at it again immediately. But until then, we'd like to keep the deal we've made together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303103521	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303103523	Now new information has come out since we left the government, and so, since the Social Democrats lost government power, among other things. A great deal of answers to questions recently sent by the Minister for the Environment. And here it turns out that there is a mess in relation to who is actually financially responsible. I do not think we can allow fishermen to sail their own lake or, for that matter, leave the local residents in the area or inside the Limfjord with the bill if we find that the depot is going to go to sea. Because it will have severe consequences for their economy. I'm quite sure, sir. Bjarne Laustsen knows that this could have consequences for fishermen. I think it is important that we clean up who is actually financially responsible. We can't push the monkey around and leave them behind.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303103612	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303103613	I fully agree and I also know that it has had consequences both for fishermen, local people, nature and the environment in the area, that you did something you should not have done. But it can be no different than that I would like to give an assurance here today that if there is any doubt about the information that is now coming here in relation to compensation, then we would very much like to make it clear that we are looking at it all under one in 2018 or 2019 • also in relation to what I think we are all concerned with, namely that unfortunately there are plenty of pollution around the globe. And if we can help to take the lead in finding new technology that can deal with the problem and bring it to an end on the ground, then we will be happy to take part in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303103703	Thank you. Then there is a question from Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303103707	This is actually a question or a proposal for all the parties. I am not the environmental rapporteur for the alternative, but have tried to get a little involved in the matter because I am in Western Jutland. And if there's something I'm also taking part in, it's this parish council policy that's come up after I've gone out and placed myself with that now I've been there, that I've seen it and talked to the locals. That is one of the things I have been out trying to spend some time on to understand the matter. I have tried to push the party color a little in the background, and I think that for those sitting in Thyborøn or Harboøre, in the area up there, and listening to it, it is a pity that today's debate is just a chat about who has been responsible for what. In fact, I think that the SF is taking the lead in this in a very sensible way when they say: let us have a new debate, because new information has come to light. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur whether he could not try to take this up, simply forget the past and think about what kind of a cloud is hanging over the area up there right now. What are we thinking when we hear about Pick 42? Then we think of an area that's dead. It's not just removing any poison. That is to think: what should be when we have the poison removed? It is a whole area that is currently blocked. So could we try to forget the past and look ahead instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303103821	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303103822	This is a case that started before my birth certificate was written, and that doesn't say a thing. So it's not a new case. It is dealt with in different ways and, like everyone else, I find it awful that you could do something like that back then. That is why we have also done a great deal and will continue to do a great deal not only in that area, but especially in this area we will do some things. And that is what has been proposed. That is why I do not think it has anything to do with parish council policy or anything else. We are all together and should all be concerned about how we can solve this. There have been some problems with the fact that we could not have cleaned up completely in 1971 and 1981, but can there be some new techniques so that we can deal with it, and can we find a circle that will now help to pay because they also have a moral responsibility, but then the solution is considerably easier. And I think we should all work on that. We know who is to blame, but those who are to blame did so at the time with the state's permission, so we all have a responsibility. However, the soil pollution law says who is primarily the player in this area, and that is the regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303103926	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303103927	I believe that what is needed in the area right now is that when we have finished that debate in here and hopefully have a positive result for the area, we agree that we will have a new debate on what will happen in the area afterwards. Because regardless of what is happening here, I would like to ask the rapporteur, and I will do that to the other parties when we are finished in this Chamber: will you take part in a debate on what to do on Harboøre Tange? What can we do with projects that make it quite obvious that of course we have to remove the poison? For this investment is minimal compared to the gain that will be for the local community in the future. Is this supposed to be a nature park? Is it supposed to be a growth center? What can I get you? Right now, it's a dead area. So my question is: do you want to take part in that dialogue afterwards, not necessarily just about removing the poison, but about what we need to do to get a new light on Thyborøn and Harboøre?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303104012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303104013	Well, it falls like an orange in my turban, because yesterday I got an item on the agenda of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, which was about the Committee on the Environment having to look at the Danish coasts because they erode. And that's the same problem up there. I have suggested that we should have a hearing so that it is a fine part of the rationale that we say that we have some problems, both with our coasts eroding, and especially with the fact that it is not just a summer house falling into the water, but that it is a poison depot. And I have to say that is an aggravating circumstance. So it hits completely into what I would like, and I think we should go up and look at it together and take Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhrs's leash, so that we can measure for ourselves how many meters there are from the depot to the edge of the water.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303104059	Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303104102	Thank you. Sir. Bjarne Laustsen wants to wait until the regions finish their mapping in 2019. I can be a little worried about that, because we are talking about an annual total allocation for the whole of Denmark of some 420 million. kr. for cleaning up and mapping contaminated sites, and we have in the order of 29 000 of them. Does the rapporteur expect that, immediately after 2019, about half or more of the annual budget will be allocated to this pollution alone? That's what it takes for us to remove the depot.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303104148	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303104150	We know that both municipalities and regions lack money. The state doesn't have too many either. It is certainly the case that the present government does not give this particular priority. You might go more for tax breaks. I fully agree that we must clean up the past's past sins, and we should also have liked to have had the polluter pay. So it may well be that it ends up with some more money spending on it. I hope, then, that the new technology will enable us to clean up the place and get it handled so that it may also become cheaper, so that we use our resources, as I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, in the best way possible in relation to the tasks that we have in this area and in a large number of other areas. I think that would be wise. I cannot pre-discount what it will be like, but we have made an agreement with the regions, and we expect them to live up to it. When it is on the table, we are ready, together with all the parties of the Folketing, to look at what the next step is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303104250	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303104253	Now this is one of the biggest pollutions we have. It is the one that is extremely close to the North Sea, and we know that climate change is creating wilder and wilder weather. I can be very concerned that when this area is included in a priority, along with all the other reasons that need to be cleared up, it can be moved many, many years into the future. Is it not a concern shared by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303104317	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303104319	Yes, but when we have those analyses inside, we also know in what order of priority we should proceed. And I'm gonna think this is the top of the list, so it's not for decades that it's gonna have to wait. I believe that taking the analyses in such a way is just a matter of respect for the agreements that are being made, and that is why we have the view that we have today. The agreements we make stand in the Social Democrats. It is both when we are in government and when we are in opposition. That's gotta be it. If there is an extraordinary situation, it is that I say that we are prepared to push it forward. Fortunately, there are indications that they do not. That is why we are following the rules of the game that we have agreed together and then we are ready to look at it, because I fully share the analysis that if something goes wrong and if something happens, we have to do something.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303104406	I must clearly ask the audience to remain calm, otherwise they will be expelled from the Chamber. Thank you. I think we should. I'm interrupting the meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303104524	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303104528	I finished, but I'm ready to answer several questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303104535	It's fine. Then it's mr. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303104543	I note that Regional Chairman Bent Hansen has said on several occasions that the region would very much like to take responsibility for the task, and back in April last year Bent Hansen said that the region would be able to find 125 million. kr., but that, by the way, the financial burden could not be lifted by itself. Does the rapporteur agree that at no time will the region itself be able to lift the financial burden and that it is therefore necessary for the state to intervene with funds if the problem is to be resolved?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303104625	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303104627	I have not just counted the money in the money box in the Central Denmark Region, but when Bent Hansen says that you are not able to carry out the whole task alone, I think he is, because I know that you are tense. That is also why I think it is a great gesture by Bent Hansen to say that the 125 million are to be found. kr. in a difficult time, but that you think it would be reasonable for others to contribute. In the whole structure of ownership, etc., we have just had to note that the Folketing cannot require investors to ensure that the other 125 million. kr. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come I think we would have gone further in this matter if it were the case that we could find a common economy with which we were able to solve the problem. That is why we are in this situation. So I fully share the view that finding the money alone is problematic for the region, and that is why I would like to appeal once again to the others, especially the owners, who have a moral responsibility here, to find the remaining amount.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303104724	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303104727	Very much has been appealed to the former owners. I believe that there is a broad consensus in the House that it is quite unreasonable for the current owner, Cheminova, to avoid taking his share of responsibility, which is indeed the main responsibility, even though, as has been said, the state also has a responsibility. Now I hear that the rapporteur believes that the matter can wait until 2019 for a decision. I think that in 2019, if the Constitution is followed, we have had or have a parliamentary election. Should I understand the rapporteur's commitment that if we get a social democratic government again in 2019, then the Socialists will be prepared for the state to find the means to do the job?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303104823	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303104824	I think it will, without being able to bind a new government or say what constellation it will be and who will participate in such intergovernmental cooperation. However, I share the rapporteur's wish that we should have another government that looks at this differently. I simply cannot be in doubt about that. It seemed this week that we could already get started on that project, but it is then postponed a little bit. We know what the deadlines are for elections, but I think there will still be respect for the fact that when you make an agreement with a region, everyone should hold it, whether you are in government or in opposition. But if there are good reasons for this, I am sure we will be able to move on to that field at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303104911	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments and questions. Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303104921	Thank you. Nor should there be any doubt that the Danish People's Party believes that we should very much monitor what is going on with the depot located at Høfde 42. I think it is important to outline the story, because this tells us a lot about the fact that we have a new knowledge, which means that we should be aware of what is going on up there, but that this knowledge was not there before, and that this is actually why we have the situation we have today, namely because, back in the late 1950s and 1960s, waste from Cheminova was deposited well to feel with the state's approval, and that the state itself was also instrumental in depositing pesticide residues back in the early 1960s. In 1971 and again in 1981 the state also went in and removed a large part of the waste from the depot, but it is estimated that there are still about 110 tonnes of waste left, plus 7 tonnes of mercury. And the garbage we are talking about is awful garbage, because when I was reading the American expression and looking it up and seeing that it was a petal, I got a little worried. So this isn't a joke, this is definitely no. But what's gonna happen is there's gonna be some leakage. You find dead eels, the mercury goes into the fjord, there are dead seagulls, and you go in and say that we simply have to encapsulate the poison. This is done in 2006 with a spun wall that goes 14 m in depth. If you go over and look at the metro construction I don't know how deep it is but 14 m is actually quite deep. At any rate, this spun wall has been made fairly deep and with a membrane on top which is waterproof. And that means that it should work in such a way that, even if water comes in, there is no leakage. So that's what you measure up there. I've also been up at Harboøre Tange and seen the poison depot a year and a half ago. And if you believe it's safe, you don't have a problem with going there, you can say. If you're worried it's gonna fall into the ocean, that's a problem. What I and the Danish People's Party think is good is that there is constant surveillance at the depot up there. I also think it is good that the agreement has been made, that the regions are now looking at what is of depots around, where something needs to be done, and then you have a talk with the state, that is to say with the minister, when we reach 2019, to find a solution. There should be no doubt that something should not happen, we in the Danish People's Party are in any case prepared to do something about it. Of course. But we also have confidence that the assessment of the membrane, of the spun wall and of the waterproof membrane that is available right now from the region will be sustainable for the next 25 years. We trust that assessment. That is why, of course, we support the proposal for adoption which we have agreed to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303105308	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303105310	Now I know that the citizens' group Høfde 42 has sent this picture to all members of parliament and actually a video where you can see how close to the depot the North Sea is. The depot is now almost surrounded by water. After all, it is not about how deep it is, it is about that if there is water all around the depot, so that the depot will de facto become an island, then there will not be many storms before the depot goes to sea. Is the rapporteur aware that this is 30,000 tonnes of toxic sand and that there are poisons in the sand that do not take much to kill wildlife • birds and other things? When the rapporteur says that the rapporteur will wait until something happens, what is it then? Is it that the depot has fallen into the sea? Or when did something happen so that we can act?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303105415	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303105417	No, it is my very clear impression that the monitoring of the site is also well understood in the sense that I have no doubt that if leakage starts to occur, we will be told, and we will, of course, have to react. I have to admit, I have a little bit of trouble imagining that it could be an island. This is one of the few places on the west coast where the Coast Directorate has actually allowed a tough coast protection, i.e. with rocks... something that I otherwise plead for everywhere else, so that we don't let summerhouses fall the sea. But right here you have been allowed, of course because it is extreme, you might say. It's special. And I think that is a good thing, but it also means that both the region and everyone nearby will, of course, keep an eye on the fact that there is no leakage and that the coast protection is maintained. I find it very difficult to see it could be an island. At least I find it very, very difficult to see that the water can go down 14 m and pull a membrane into the sea. I find that hard to imagine. Then there's something really extreme to do. I am just saying that we must keep an eye on it and, of course, if we have the slightest suspicion that something is happening, something must be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303105540	Thank you. Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303105545	We can see from the Minister's answer to question 519. There have been a significant number of 100-year storms in the last 10 years. It is actually calculated in the answer. 100-year storms are not cozy, small rains, they are quite violent storms where the sea rises. Among other things, they do. could also experience inside the Limfjord. That is why I disagree with the rapporteur. In fact, I believe that we are facing an imminent risk that it will end up in the sea. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he is aware of who is watching and measuring whether there is leakage. Who is taking the samples, and who is it that subsequently analyzes the samples? It's not the region. We all know that. Who is doing this and do you trust them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303105633	Not directly indictment. I'm sorry). Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303105636	Thank you for the question. I have to admit, I don't actually know, because I haven't read it. It was my very clear view that this is the region and it must be something I have overlooked, but I am not really aware of who it is. And then it's hard to express trust or not trust.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303105658	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303105659	The rapporteur mentions that if something does not happen, the Danish People's Party is prepared to intervene. What Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr has also said is that the water is gradually standing all around the courtesy, and it is de facto something that reminds us of an island, and then we are running an extremely high risk of extreme weather phenomena, of which we know more and more are coming as a result of climate change. And if the depot is swallowed up by the sea, then we are faced with a natural and environmental disaster of very, very large dimensions. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur something. If we go the way that we can see it happens and that the disaster hits us and we do not get any warning, we do not have the opportunity to just move out and remove 110 tonnes of pesticides and 7 tonnes of mercury from one day to the next, when we look at the weather forecasts. What is it that the rapporteur thinks we should do and who should pay for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303105812	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303105813	When there are winter storms and autumn storms and other great storms that we have in Denmark, it is often the case that much of the beach disappears. We'll see that all over the West Coast, and then it'll be quietly rebuilt. At Høfde 42 the Coastal Directorate and the region are keeping an eye on whether the coastal protection that is just around the depot holds. As recently as a year and a half ago, several tonnes of stones have been added again, because of course it has to last. When the water comes in at a storm, it sometimes goes over the stones and also over the membrane that is made, which then also has to be waterproof. But I have not seen any pictures where it forms an island, and I have the impression that both the Coastal Directorate and the region, when they make assessments of the way the storms come, say that there is at least no danger of it falling into the sea. I have to trust that. I'm a politician, I'm a layman, I'm not a professional expert, but I actually think the Coast Directorate and the region are, and that they have some professional expertise so they can handle it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303105938	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303105940	I think the rapporteur very much agrees with me that these are enormous forces we are talking about, around our west coast, around our Western Sea. The sea has tremendous powers, especially when combining the North Sea with extreme weather phenomena. So what is at the heart of this is that there is a very high risk and the consequences, if there is an accident that is not impossible to imagine, are enormous. But if we imagine an extreme weather phenomenon hitting us, how are we going to clean up if Høfte 42 goes to sea and who is going to pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303110017	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303110018	I think that is a difficult question to answer. I consider the answers we have received in relation to the durability of the membrane to be correct. I suppose the professionals have some knowledge of this when they say that it does not fall into the sea and that the membrane can last for the next 25 years. Well, I guess that's correct. I guess it's true when I'm told by some professionals that this doesn't fall into the water.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303110053	Then it's mr. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303110100	If we have a poison depot of this magnitude, would it not be right for us to think preventive rather than healing? The rapporteur says that if there is a very serious situation, you will look at it. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not an expression of the fact that responsibility is being pushed away and that the entire population in that part of the country is being put at very serious risk of suddenly being faced with an environmental disaster which cannot be prevented because the necessary prevention has not been carried out in good time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303110142	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303110144	As a rule, we say that prevention is better than cure, that is the way it is. In this case, however, I would like to say that it is not the case that we are just waiting for something to happen. It's not like that, so we say that five and seven can just be equal, it's not like that. What we are saying with the proposal for adoption that we have is that at the moment the regions are working. They end this in 2018, and in 2019 the state and the region will get together and find out what they're doing about those things. I therefore believe that it is important for the regions to have time to complete this work and then to discuss how the hell we are going to deal with this problem, because that is obviously something that needs to be resolved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303110229	Sir. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303110231	I would like to know whether the rapporteur agrees that the state has to step in with the economy. The region, as I mentioned just now, has given an undertaking that funds from the region can be used to fulfil part of the task, but it is true that although the regions did not do anything about all other toxic deposits around the country, they would not be able to save money to solve the problem themselves at Harboøre Tange. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur: does the rapporteur not agree that it will be necessary to put state funds into this project if we are to solve the environmental problem at Harboøre Tange?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303110316	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303110318	Well, I would say that there are at least some things that are very curious, because I do not want to decide whether the state should pay anything or not. I find it strange that the region can go out and say that exactly half of the amount it is estimated will cost to clean up, they have exactly half. I think that's funny. That's one thing. The second point is that we have almost always had this principle of the polluter pays. In 1987, Cheminova was acquitted. But it is Aarhus University that was given Cheminova, and which has owned it until a year and a half since they sold it and received over 8.5 billion. kr. In the box for that. And now they can stand and say: We have a moral responsibility for cleaning up. But there's just no money in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303110407	Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303110411	Yes, I am thinking of the neighbours of Cheminova, who must think that it is a little strange that the state goes out and grants permissions to deposit hazardous waste and dump hazardous waste itself. That is what makes Cheminova an extraordinary case: that the state itself has been out depositing its own waste. When there is a sale in 2015 and quite a lot of money is made, it's a little strange that you can't find 250 million. kr. together over a long period of time if the region, the state and the former owners join together. There is something here where I think that you have to sit next door and think it's really weird that you can't find this money together. The region is actually the ones who have played the clearest out. They have 45 million. kr. a year in the region of Midtjylland, and they have actually offered to spend 125 million in those years, so that at the same time they can also do something for other citizens in the municipality. I think it is quite a sensible approach that the region has taken. I can then hear from the rapporteur that the Danish People's Party does not think so. I just want to ask whether the Danish People's Party does not believe that the state also has a responsibility here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303110521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303110522	I just find it odd when it comes to the region's announcement that it is exactly 50 per cent. Well, it's not 100 million. kr. It has been estimated that it will cost 250 million. kr. to clean up, and then the region can find 125 million. kr. I just think it's funny that it's exactly 50%. That's not 100 million. kr., that's not 75 million. kr., no, that's 125 million. kr. I just think it's a joke. That's one thing. Another thing is that if Mrs Ida Auken thought that the state had a responsibility, Mrs Ida Auken, when Mrs Ida Auken was Minister for the Environment, could, by the way, have tried to find the money. You could have done that at the time. You didn't, and that's fair enough. I'm an environmental rapporteur. I don't have my hands in the treasury, so I'm not gonna stand here and promise the government will find the other half. But I promise you, in 2019, you'll look at it because that's what's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303110621	Thank you. Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303110623	What we were discussing was whether the state has a responsibility. Then you can always write history and say that somebody should have done something at some point. The case was last up in 2015. That's when it was up. There are plenty of problems to solve, and when there are times when you have to solve them, that is where you have to look at them. And they've been up again in 2015, and then I don't have to stand by and entertain that, actually, there were initiatives on the part of the radicals to try to solve it in 2015. It's kind of history writing. I would like to look forward and ask whether the Danish People's Party also thinks that the state has a responsibility. I think the citizens of the region really care much more than the history of what previous governments have done or have not done. We're gonna have to solve this problem. I ask the Danish People's Party again if they do not believe that the state also has a responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303110710	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303110714	The state has helped to deposit some toxic waste, so the state obviously has a responsibility. The state has also helped to eliminate a large proportion of the pollution. 1971 was done, and in 1981 it was done. Whether the state is obliged to help remove the rest is an assessment. As a citizen of Denmark, I think that we should, of course, have this removed at some point. That is why I think it is very good that the regions have started work to find out where the hell it is that we have some problems. I know, for example, that there has been a steel mill that went bankrupt up at Frederiksværk. My acquaintance hasn't cleaned up there yet. I don't know who's gonna pay for it... whether it's the region or whether it's the state. But we have some challenges in Denmark that we have to solve together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303110810	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303110812	Thank you. I can, of course, pick up the thread from the previous one, because whether the state should be involved is a political decision, and that is why we are discussing it today. I hear the rapporteur say that we are being told that this depot is under control. I would just like to ask the rapporteur if it is not true that we are at a time when we are constantly being surprised at how the wilder weather caused by climate change is still spoiling something that we thought we were keeping to the storms we are used to there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303110849	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303110850	I'm not sure I understand the question. As far as the storms we have are concerned, there is a dependence on the security we have on some things that last and some things that don't last. That is why I have been fighting for a very long time for us to have a more firm and harder coast protection along the West Coast, which the Coast Directorate is opposed to, because they only want sand-feeding. So I'm not sure I fully understand the question. At least there are things that have surprised, but that is the way it is with the wind and the weather. What is going to happen is not necessarily something we can always predict.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303110929	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303110931	Yes, but now, for example, the rapporteur mentions. even the steel mill site, and one could also mention Kærgård Plantage, but they are not as far as this. What I am asking is: is it not also the rapporteur's impression that we are living at a time of hugely increased climate change year by year and that it can actually be really difficult to predict whether such a depot can last? So even if the experts say this is gonna last, I'm sure I'm in a lot of doubt as to whether we can say it in 2, 3 or 5 years. And should we not, for that very reason, and because we are dealing with such dangerous chemicals, make a special choice here and choose to make an additional allocation so that we can get that risk out of the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303111018	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303111020	I believe that once we have a professional assessment that this membrane will hold, and when we have a clear agreement that in 2019 you sit down with the regions and try to find out what the hell to do, I think that we are not just sitting with our hands in our laps, but are trying to do something constructive in relation to the toxic deposits around us. It also means, whether you think that the steel mill or Kærgård Plantage is extremely important, that you should also look at these things. Because it's not necessarily just what can be said to be a big storm in the North Sea that makes pollution dangerous. These may be other phenomena that I cannot say anything about on a stand-by basis, but which can do that even pollution in the middle of the country can suddenly become dangerous. That is what we have to deal with, and that is what we will be discussing in 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303111121	Then it's mr. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303111123	I think it is fine to be prepared to brief them, but in 2019. I would like to return to some of the points raised by the rapporteur a little earlier, namely the question of who is actually taking these tests. It was some of the things that sounded a little unclear to me when I was listening. The fact is that it is Cheminova himself who is measuring it today. Does the rapporteur not think it would be reasonable for the region, or at least a public body, to measure the leakage that is actually taking place? The problem is if there is actually a higher leakage rate than what we are told today, and is the rapporteur also prepared to wait until 2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303111205	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303111207	Until a very short time ago, Cheminova was owned by Aarhus University. Do I have to understand that when Cheminova himself apparently made the measurements, until 11⁄2 years ago, it was the university that cheated? Or rather, they didn't, but now there's private owners and they're cheating? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303111230	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303111231	I would have liked to see Aarhus University take responsibility for cleaning up. But that is not what the question was all about. The question was, who's measuring it? And I would like to ask again: does the rapporteur not think it is reasonable that it is a public body which measures the leakage which I am probably quite sure of, but let us just say probably in order to give the rapporteur a little leeway? Does the rapporteur not think that it would be reasonable for it to be a public body that measured it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303111300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303111302	Well, if you think it's a problem, I can see the point of it being a public body. My impression is that the employees who have been at Cheminova are still gone, even after the change of ownership, and that it is probably the same who drives out and measures it. I find it very difficult to imagine that as an employee, depending on ownership, you should give false information. But that's my assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303111329	Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303111333	First of all, I think the rapporteur has a very respectful approach to the subject, just by saying: we do not necessarily know what is up and down; we have to rely on those who give us the information. We can then be very uncertain and disagree as to whether the information we are getting is also true whether there is really any certainty that this is the way we are being informed. And that's why we can't predict the future, so I'd rather talk about something else. If we now imagine that we should not think about the money, I know that this is almost impossible in this case, is it the rapporteur's view that we should do it now, that is to say clean up the depot and get this cloud out of the area? Or should you still wait away because you have a security you can say that it is somehow a credit in the bank, i.e. if we assume that those who gave us the measurements are right. If we were not to think about the money, should we clean up now and be preventive, or should we trust what we have been told, but where something can happen that we are not, of course, mastering ourselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303111430	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303111434	But it's just not the world I'm living in, that I'm imagining something. Yeah, maybe when I sleep and dream a little. But the reality is that we also have to think about the money. The reality is that we have to think about what the hell is going on and where to get the money from, etc. etc. How are we gonna do that? Is this the most important thing in relation to other places in Denmark etc. etc.? And that's why I think it's good to wait until 2019 when the regions have done their inventory, and then find out how the hell we're doing this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303111509	Here you go, sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303111513	The reason why I still allow myself to think these thoughts is that if we go back to, for example, 1981-82, when one of the major emissions happened, we were in a situation where it did not really matter whether we had dreamed of it or thought of it there we had an export situation where the English were actually considering boycotting Danish fishing. And that was before we had the storms that we see today. So I'm thinking it's not just a web of thought. I am simply thinking: will we be preventive or will we wait? And when we wait, it's out of our hands. If we are in a situation where there is a spill, the world has become so much more global today that we can see, not storms from the sea, but shit storms from abroad that are going to really hurt us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303111556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303111558	But again, this is rather the same as the issue of prevention and cure. So, we're writing 2016 now, and the regions have until 2018, i.e. 2 more years, and then they have to come up with their analysis of the state of the pollution. And in 2019, we're gonna start looking at how the hell we're gonna solve this. And hopefully we also have a better economy, so that we could actually have some money to put into this. Because I don't think there are any of us here who are in any doubt that this is going to cost us money, and then we can talk boxes, because whether it is the region or it is the state or who it is that has to pay, it is basically cash-in-the-box thinking. It is the taxpayers who will ultimately pay. I guess we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303111640	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are no more questions. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303111650	Thank you. In the Left, of course, we take this matter as seriously as everyone else, and in dealing with this question about pollution at Høfde 42, it is important for the Left to stress that under the soil pollution law it is the regions that are responsible for public action against soil pollution. When we look at the specific case of Høfde 42, we see that the public authorities have already taken care to eliminate most of the pollution, and there is continuous maintenance and monitoring of the depot. In the Left we think it is important that we carry out these ongoing assessments of the security of the depot, because in the Left we fully recognise the need for a safe depot. Nevertheless, the Central Jutland Region has estimated that the enclosure can last at least 25 years yet, and also estimates that it is currently there. is not a risk that the depot will be flushed into the sea. In view of this, as well as the ongoing maintenance and monitoring of Høfte 42, the assessment must be that safety is sufficiently high at this time. In addition, the Left has noted that the enclosure is built to withstand flooding. By 2018, the regions will have to find out where it is necessary to take action against pollution, and when the regions have provided an overview of the necessary efforts, the State will subsequently discuss and negotiate these issues in 2019. With these words, I would like to say that the Left supports the proposal for adoption which Mr. Bjarne Laustsen from the Social Democrats has read on behalf of the Social Democrats, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative and the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303111838	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303111847	I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left: if we imagine that the depot is going to go to sea, it is just such an idea that we make ourselves aware of who is going to compensate the fishermen, who is going to compensate the people who live in and live off the area, both in connection with the North Sea, but also within the Limfjord? Does the Left believe that it must be up to the region, or does the Left believe that it must be up to the state?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303111912	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303111914	But the point of departure, as has also been made clear in the various statements, is also from the Minister that things are safe and sensible, as is currently the case. And, of course, if an extraordinary situation should arise, it must be discussed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303111930	Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303111933	The reason I asked about this was precisely because right now no one is financially responsible. It is precisely in the answers sent by the Minister to the Danish Parliament before the examination of this question. It is very clear that it is not the region that is financially responsible to fishermen or to the people who live and live on the North Sea and the Limfjord. And it doesn't say who it is. That is why I ask the rapporteur sincerely: who is financially responsible? It is the case that when natural disasters occur in Denmark and this has consequences for citizens, there are thus different bodies which usually contribute in those situations. I would therefore like to hear from the rapporteur: who is financially responsible for paying the fishermen, for paying the farmers and others who live off the land, for the sea and for the Limfjord?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303112023	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303112026	But that is quite clear, also in the Minister's statement in connection with the discussions here, and then there is no need to whip up a mood. It seems to be as safe as it might be at the present time. The processes that have been set in motion have also been explained and, if an exceptional situation should arise against expectation, it will of course be considered.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303112045	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Gade, Alternative
ParlaMint-DK_20160303112050	I would just like to ask from the rapporteur and the Left in general a helping hand, because I and more people in the area need that. There is a group of volunteers, as Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr also mentioned earlier, who have worked hard for many years up there. There are many places in Denmark. Well, there's a lot of places where you have some kind of case you're fighting for. But the problem in this area is that the fronts are drawn so sharply because of history and that Cheminova casts a shadow over the meetings that are being set up. Some people are simply afraid to come to these meetings, because imagine if it costs jobs; imagine if it costs bad publicity. What we are doing right now is extremely bad publicity for the area. When I started getting up there, people were afraid to even come and talk to me about it, 'cause what if people hear about this? Then it's bad for the area. So what I'm asking is: could the Left and the rapporteur help me with when I call citizens' meetings up there completely apolitically, I don't troops up in green pants or anything to break through and get some people to come by saying that it's okay to debate this? There is no policy in it, but we need to discuss: what are we going to do in the future? Can we support this in the community so we can get away from the fear of touch that is? Could I get help with that, because it's been hard so far? There we do not need to talk about the alternative and the left. We can just say that the Left can help support the civilian citizens up there, because I find that difficult. The left is something stronger than the alternative in the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303112207	Here you go. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303112210	Thank you. Great respect for local commitment. It is perfectly understandable that there is a concern about it. That is why it is a good thing that on an occasion like this one we can get a statement from the Minister that things have been properly encased. What has already been done in this matter? Many may not be aware of this, but it may be localized that a large part of it has already been removed on an earlier occasion. We have also been clarified that it is the regions that are now in the process of registering and preparing for the discussions and negotiations that will then take place in 2019. That is, in fact, helping to shed light on things, and I think everyone would like to contribute that. Then there is no reason, we can say, to whip up an extra unnecessary mood on top of that. But you can try to relate a little bit to what is a professional assessment, namely that things seem to be well and safely in place as well as you can now do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303112258	Thank you. Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303112303	I reach for it, but I couldn't quite feel if there was the outstretched hand I was looking for. This is actually something that could help us a great deal in this Chamber if we could make such an agreement that we were just using civil society to create some kind of support that we could then go ahead with. The status is as I also hear from the rapporteur that you do not really have any interest in messing this up. There are facts on the table, and we move on along the path that has been set out. I'm just saying, society up there is split in two. There's a lot of people who can't even talk about this. And there it could help a lot and then I'll just try to grab the Left again and then ask if we can do these meetings together, where it's not about politics, but where it's about how we get some growth up there. And I think we could agree that could be interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303112346	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303112351	What I think can be done if you can use that expression to reassure as much as possible is to get concrete facts on the table in the case. It's clear there's a rest depot up there. Is it so dangerous and uncertain right now? Well, of course it would be nice if you could just snap your fingers and remove it, just like that, but it can't be done. But there is a procedure, and it is in fact the strongest form of calming that we can say in concrete terms: there is this procedure where the regions that have the task of recording these things. And then there will be negotiations on it in 2019. So there is, we can say, gone in the matter in the sense that the process is put on track by agreement. It is not the case that there is a fear of touch, but it is also the case that we should not whip up an extra mood, but give concrete and professional information and refer to the statements that lie there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303112435	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303112438	Thank you. What is of course interesting here is what the rapporteur also calls an extraordinary situation. For an extraordinary situation can have disastrous consequences, and that is if 110 tonnes of poison disappears into the North Sea, let alone 7 tonnes of mercury. And that is also the poison we are talking about and, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also mentioned, is a very, very bad and very, very toxic poison. I would like to follow up on what Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr asked. If this extraordinary situation now arises and if Høfte 42 gets engulfed by the sea, how is it possible to encapsulate this pollution, and who's going to pay for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303112529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303112532	At any rate, I find that everyone who cares about this case is all parties, everyone who is involved in it somehow takes this issue and this matter seriously, and that is why I think we should start by looking at what is the assessment of it at this time. Some of it's been removed, and there's still this stuff with spuns and enclosures, and it's estimated to be safe. If, therefore, an extraordinary situation should arise against expectation, it will, of course, be discussed and dealt with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303112601	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303112604	However, an extraordinary situation does not come across us as a wanderer and, by the way, warns us of its arrival with months of time, so that we can react, and that is what makes this problem so serious. We know that we are in a situation of extraordinary weather phenomena, and we know that we are faced with a poison depot that lies right to the North Sea and where the North Sea is gradually almost encircling the depot. We know that an extraordinary situation can have disastrous consequences, where the bill we are looking at as a society and the human consequences for all the people living in the area are enormous, and that is the risk we are talking about. So again: who is it that has to deal with it if something happens suddenly, and who is it that has to pay for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303112647	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303112650	I find that everyone takes this matter very seriously. I also think it is precisely important that we listen to and focus on the professional assessments, the authorities, the reports, the studies and what has already been done. If, therefore, an extraordinary situation should arise against expectation, it will, of course, be dealt with and discussed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303112713	Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303112721	Thank you. The rapporteur says that everyone takes this matter very seriously. What is interesting is what you do so that something happens when you take the matter seriously. What I have also expressed concerns about earlier today is that if we just let this case go into the ordinary flow of 29,000 cases that need to be prioritised, and we only address it once the overview has been created around 2018 or 2019, can we not risk that this case will not be dealt with until 10 years, 15 years or 20 years? And what will be the effects of climate change at that time? We're always surprised. We thought it was under control here, but then there are dikes that are being broken through, or fortifications that cannot cope with the new weather conditions we have with climate change. Does that not concern the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303112816	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303112823	But the whole thing, I think, I'm worried about everyone who works with it. That is why it is also important to look at exactly where the matter stands, and that is why I believe that we should be careful not to overreact. We must respond, but we must not overreact, and we must respond precisely to the information and facts that lie, among other things. in the light of the Minister's statement and the professional assessments available. That also shows exactly what has already been done in the case. A process has been rolled out, so it is not the case that nothing is happening in the matter. And if, contrary to expectations, exceptional situations arise, it will, of course, be discussed and considered. I'm absolutely sure of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303112858	Thank you. Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303112902	However, several rapporteurs have said today that there is no overreaction, and I agree with that. This is not going to set a precedent. It is a question of us having here a depot of extremely toxic and dangerous substances as far as it can possibly lie, towards the North Sea, which is the place where we have the most powerful storms. And we see the storms become more violent and more violent. Then the rapporteur cannot see that this is a very special situation, which requires us to react fairly quickly and in a few years we will find additional funds for this particular case on top of the 420 million. kr. A year?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303112943	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303112945	Well, changing governments have responded too. I can refer to what is already the answer, namely that a large part of the depot has been removed. I don't know why, but I'm afraid you couldn't bring the rest back then. There's been a process unfolding, so it's not like nothing's gonna happen. I think that's a wrong picture to draw. Something's actually happening. A process is under way so that it is taken care of as professionally as it can be done at all. I also note that changing governments follow the path that lies, and I think that is a good thing. It also shows that the regions now have until 2018 to make the registration required, and then you get the discussion and the negotiations on that basis. I think this is the way to do it, especially when, on the basis of the professional judgements which lie there, it is possible to establish that the depot is properly sealed in as well as possible with the instruments available today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303113040	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303113047	In Denmark we pay tribute to the 'polluter pays' principle. Yet it was the state, not Cheminova, that removed some of the pollution as far back as 1971 and 1981 while the pollution under the groundwater mirror at Høfte 42 was left behind. The county and the state agreed in 2003 to share the cost of establishing a spun wall around the poison depot, and in 2006 110 tonnes of pesticide residues and 7 tonnes of mercury were encapsulated and coastal protection was provided on the sea side of the depot. Today we have become wiser. We have adopted a new law on soil pollution, and the Central Jutland Region rightly believes that the time has come for this pollution to be eliminated. At the same time, it is quite clear that this is not a task that the region itself can carry out financially. As was the case in 1971 and 1981, the state must step in one way or another in order to speed up this clean-up. The government argues that the poison depot is well located where it is and that it will be years before it becomes a problem. It is a strange thought that the ambition alone is to shoot the problem into the future, while the poison slowly leaks out. The government apparently has the idea that as long as you pollute a little at a time and push the problem to our descendants, all is well. The Enhedslisten does not think that way, and apparently the region and the local citizens do not think that way either. It is unacceptable that we continue to push this problem ahead of us. We could have gotten a solution when Cheminova was sold. We could have chosen to spend just a small fraction of the 8 billion. kr., which the sale of Cheminova brought to the owners, to co-finance the clean-up. But when the company Auriga sold Cheminova, we witnessed an extremely unbelievable course. The main shareholder, Aarhus University Research Foundation, decided that part of the proceeds from the sale should be used to clean up Cheminova's pollution scandal, but the board of Auriga went against the main shareholder and had collected signatures and powers to go against its main shareholder. Our pension company, ATP, also played a very, very sad role when they voted against the proposal. ATP collected about 0.5 billion. kr. and would have only earned 6-7 million. kr. less if they had supported the proposal that part of the proceeds from the sale should be used to clean up at Høfte 42. For this modest amount, the necessary cofinancing could have been ensured with the region. I find it embarrassing that all Danes pension companies have played such a sad role in this process and have not lived up to their social responsibilities. The Enhedslisten also suggested that we should take the money to clean up the state's dividend tax of approx. 2 billion kr. in the sale, but no, it is the region's responsibility and not the state's responsibility, the reaction is. I think the case of Høfde 42 is a frightening example of all those responsible running away from the responsibility to pay, while the poison slowly leaks into our environment and the nature of all of us. Frankly, it is time for this escape from responsibility to end. It is time for us to deal with this ticking bomb under our nature and environment at the North Sea, which puts the citizens of West Jutland in a totally insecure situation. I would therefore like to call today for us in the Folketing to be our responsibility, so that we can decide that the money must be found, that it must be found soon and found quickly, so that we can finally clear up the sins of the past. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303113529	Sir. Erling Bonnesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303113533	Does the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten recognise that there is an ongoing process in this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303113538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303113541	Yes, I recognize that. But the reason we have this debate today is that for a very, very many years there has been a process in this matter, while for decades there has been a poison depot all the way to the North Sea. I also recognise that we are in a climate change situation that increases the risk of extreme weather phenomena quite enormously, while the sea is moving closer and closer to this depot. So when we have this debate today, when the discussion has gone on again, it is because it is urgent to clean up the mess so that we can avoid a disaster.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303113615	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303113626	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the new Minister for a very good and comprehensive answer to this question. And it is probably neither the first nor, for that matter, the last time that the problem of the remaining pollution at Høfde 42 at Harboøre Tange is discussed here in the Assembly Hall. I also understand very well, as so many other rapporteurs before me, the concern that may arise when such large amounts of hazardous chemicals are left very concentrated in one place where they could potentially pose a risk to people, the environment and nature as well as the local community as a whole. But I also understand from the answer given by the Minister that pollution is encapsulated according to all the rules of art, among other things. with a 14 m deep spun wall and a waterproof top membrane. At the same time, quite extensive coastal protection has also been provided in front of the depot. Both the enclosure and the coast protection are built to withstand very strong storms and also particularly violent weather events with unfortunate coincidences in duration, wind direction and water height. In addition, I can also understand from the Minister that the Central Denmark Region and its specialist adviser consider that it is perfectly justifiable to leave the enclosed depot for the next many years, because there is no risk, nor is there any severe weather. If the Minister or, for that matter, other parties in the Folketing so wish, the Liberal Alliance is very willing to look at the distribution of the general framework allocation for the soil pollution area and for the work of the regions to investigate and clean up soil pollution. In fact, the Liberal Alliance believes that, as elsewhere in the public sector, there could also be a debureaucratisation and efficiency of administration and administration in the field of soil pollution. And such debureaucratisation and efficiency could release funds, among other things. for the benefit of the very many landowners, who are today 10-20 years on the waiting list for a clean-up via the value loss scheme, and who for many are more or less de facto tied to their property due to limited loan possibilities for landmark pollution at knowledge level 2 • well note noted pollution where there is a documented risk to people or the environment. The Liberal Alliance believes that it will provide the most environment for money by giving priority, if any, to efforts in the value loss scheme rather than cleaning up an already secure depot. We also believe that a possible professional assessment would come to the same conclusion. In the Liberal Alliance, of course, we also have full confidence that the region is responsible for monitoring the residual contamination of the security system and, moreover, in relation to all applicable rules and legislation in general. And that is why the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal for adoption that has been put forward in the past, which has been read out by Mr. Bjarne Laustsen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303113958	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303114004	I think the Liberal Alliance prides itself on being a business-friendly party, and that is why I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur sees no business opportunities in cleaning up Høfte 42. I am thinking of Danish companies in the environmental field which have expertise in soil pollution cases. What has been proposed at the moment by the region is that 30.000 m 3 should be transported. Krüger, who has expertise in the field of soil pollution, which can make it mobile, and will be able to do so at the North Sea if they could have this opportunity to show that they can deliver on their own domestic market in relation to a soil pollution case? Could there not be potential in it, and could it not also help to offset the possible cost it would then be for the state, because in the long term it would create private jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303114107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303114111	Thank you. There is certainly no doubt that the Liberal Alliance would like to boast of being a business-friendly party, and I agree with Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr that there are plenty of companies and advisors in Denmark who have great expertise in this area and also in carrying out remediation in soil pollution. I am quite sure that if the Central Jutland Region should one day come to the conclusion that the depot in question must be cleaned up, contact will be made with the firms concerned and in a tender for the clean-up itself will come up with the best and the cheapest solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303114147	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303114150	I am glad that the rapporteur can also see some business potential in this, because I actually see that, and I think it is sad that we do not see that perspective too. Because when you count on this, there are also some dynamic effects in terms of future jobs. Now the rapporteur said many times during his speech that the depot was absolutely safe, and that is why I have to ask a few questions about it, because the Minister did not say the same words. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur really is just to be aware of what the rapporteur has said... agrees with the minister that the depot is not 100 percent safe, or does the rapporteur think that the depot is 100 percent safe?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303114233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303114237	In fact, I support the statements I have heard from the Minister and have read out, also in answers to various questions, and there is the assessment by the Central Denmark Region and their specialist advisers that the depot is secure for, I think, 25-30 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303114256	Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303114259	That is exactly the thread I would also like to address, because we have heard the words several times today that it is a safe depot. Now the rapporteur is also educated in science, just as I am, and so I should like to hear: how safe can anything be? Or upside down: Can the risk go to zero for anything?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303114321	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303114324	It is quite true that I am also scientifically trained, and in contrast to, for example. We very rarely place two lines under the heading of science. I cannot, of course, stand here and claim that the risk goes to zero, or guarantee that a whole lot of horror scenarios will never happen. After all, however, I support the assessment made by the Central Jutland Region itself, which says that the depot, as I remember it, is secure for the next 25-30 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303114357	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303114401	The risk is really a combination of the possibility of something happening, times the disaster that comes out of it, if that happens. And this is exactly where this case is interesting. Because it may well be that we have some assessments that this will last and that it is reasonably safe, but if there is an accident now, we are dealing with very toxic substances to do in very large quantities right up to nature, and it can destroy both nature and local fishing, business and citizens. There are a lot of big things at stake here. Does it not concern the rapporteur at all that this is the extreme consequence we can get out of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303114441	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303114445	I fully share the concern of the questioner about the serious consequences that may arise here. Once again, I just have to stick to the professional judgement of the Central Denmark Region itself, and that is that the depot is safe at least for many years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303114503	Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303114507	Thank you very much. The rapporteur acknowledges that if something extraordinary should happen, if there were to be an accident at the depot, then the cost of clean-up and damage restrictions, etc. Probably many times exceed what it would cost to clean up before?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303114528	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303114531	I have not seen any risk analysis or any economic estimates of what a possible spill in a disaster scenario will cost the local community, but I share the concern, as these are dangerous chemicals in large quantities concentrated in one place. Now we heard earlier about dreams, and I think that my imagination can also play a part here, and I have the imagination to imagine that this would have some serious consequences for the community.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303114605	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303114608	As is currently the case, there is a very great deal of confusion as to who is going to pay, who is actually responsible, if there is an extraordinary situation which none of us hopes will arise, but it is the risk of such a depot that lies all the way to the North Sea. Who, in the end, does the rapporteur think will be left with a bill if what neither of us hopes will happen before it is tidyed up? So who's gonna pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303114637	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303114639	Thank you. After all, we are talking about hypotheses here, and I cannot at such a hypothetical level comment in any way on who might have to pay which bills for some consequences and some situations we do not even know the extent of.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303114700	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are no more brief remarks, and then it is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative, as the next rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303114720	The case of Høfde 42 is one of Denmark's biggest pollution cases, and for me it has a particular significance, because it was when I heard about this case for the first time that I was burning for the environment. That's when it struck me that this chemical thing that I was learning about wasn't just about making smart products for the future, but that it could actually also have some negative consequences of a caliber I hadn't even imagined at the time. I have been following the matter regularly ever since, and I think it is extremely relevant that we are standing here today, because this is a new situation, as Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr has said. We have an annual framework of 420 million. kr. for environmental pollution here in Denmark. In my view, this is quite a small amount, because we are talking about 29 000 contaminated land in Denmark, and all these reasons must be given priority within this amount, and a clean-up for a reason can cost from a few hundred thousand kroner to several hundred million kroner, as is the case in this case. We have an estimate of 250 million. kr., and you could ask if you should also give the other big cases a special shell and get to the bottom of them. To that I would say: no, it is not a question of setting a precedent for cases, it is simply a question of us being in a very special situation at Høfte 42 now. We are in the situation that the sea has come quite close, that we get wilder and wilder weather, and that we have a depot that is described as safe but nothing is absolutely certain. It is extremely important to understand that risk is of course a possibility that something can happen, multiplied by the consequence that is if it goes wrong. And if it goes wrong with Høfte 42, the consequences are so severe that I think it is time we gave an extra grant for this particular case. We cannot do it within the ordinary framework where we have to give priority to between 29 000 contaminated sites. And by the way, it's an exercise that we only see the result of in 2018, and then you start in 2019. It's way too late for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303115004	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303115010	It is, of course, an old matter that we are discussing, and it is also a matter that I am absolutely convinced that everyone takes seriously. It's also a difficult area. The soil pollution area is difficult because somewhere you have an immediate feeling that we must, of course, clean up soil pollution all over the place. It has to be said that the pollution in Denmark would cost us up to 15 billion. kr. to clean up, and many of them would be environmentally unwise to clean up, because much more energy would be used and would not be able to make an overall environmental account, which said that it would be good for the environment to clean up. So it's about giving priority to soil pollution. I do not think there should be any doubt about that. It is also true that we spend 400 million. kr. A year in the field of soil pollution, and that is quite a lot of money. We have also added it to the regions, and we also support the priority being given to them. When we look at this case of Cheminova and Høfte 42, I think there are two things that make this case stick out as an extraordinary case... no, three relationships, I'd say. One, of course, is the scope. It is therefore by way of comparison the largest pollution case among the pollution cases we know in Denmark. Secondly, the risk with the new weather conditions is that it can be dug out. I think we should have a look at that. And if the disaster, God forbid, hits, I think we as Parliament should have discussed this properly. The third point, and it is not least as important to me as radical, is that it is a disgrace that lies on our coasts in Denmark. It is not right for there to be a huge amount of pollution which the state has authorized and even helped to create. So that separates this case from the others we know. I understand some people are saying: let's take it in 2019 when we're ready. What made me go in and say that I think the state has an extraordinary responsibility is that we saw this big sale in 2015. Danish was made a lot of money. It is therefore a little upsetting that there could be no means of helping the region clean up in that process. And I would say that although we were sitting with the government at the time, I think there is a reason why we are all looking each other in the eye now and saying that the state has a part of the responsibility here. We must also be able to go back and take the discussion again with the former owners and see if there are some things in the legislation that stand in the way of them being able to face up to responsibility, that they also have to pay part of the bill. So from a radical point of view, and we have also discussed this in relation to previous finance laws, we would like to try to find the money as early as 2017 and to cover up to half of this here, and we hope that we can reduce the government's bill by also involving the former owners, if possible. So we really think it would be good if the government would take up the matter again and try to see if we could come together to lift the responsibility that I really think we all have, even if it is an old matter. In a way, we have all assumed a share of the responsibility, including myself, who has served as a minister. In my time it was very Kærgård Plantage that we talked about, and an extraordinary grant was given to Kærgård Plantage. I think it would be good if we could talk and already start sending out some signals at this point that we should ensure that the state takes its responsibility here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303115341	Thank you. Sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303115345	I am glad that Mrs Ida Auken starts by saying that it is also her view that everyone takes this matter seriously. If Mrs Ida Auken himself would like to look back a little, then it could be interesting to have Mrs Ida Auken explain what Mrs Ida Auken herself has taken of concrete initiatives in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303115403	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303115405	Now it is the case that when you sit as Minister for the Environment for two and a half years, you cannot solve all of Denmark's environmental problems. I think I've been completely honest about that all my time, and we had among other things. a long discussion about Kærgård Plantage in my time. We did not actually discuss Cheminova while I was sitting, and it is not to free myself from responsibility, because that was one of the things I wanted to have solved for the two and a half years I sat as a minister. Now it was in the 1950s that pollution happened, so maybe there's forgiveness for a sinner like me who didn't solve the matter. I just think the important thing is to talk about what we can do now, and as a radical, I know that after a change of government I can hopefully soon risk having to sit and pay the bill. And that is, of course, why we are trying to engage in dialogue with the former owners, so that the state does not just have to go out and find 125 million. kr. to pay the bill, but instead try to see if you can't distribute it any more. I actually think it's nice of the region to go out and say they're ready to take half of this. So, no, I'm not going to relieve myself of responsibility at all. But I really don't think that's what matters right now. That seems to me to be looking each other in the eye and saying that it is the responsibility of the state, not least in view of the sales and the weather conditions that can actually become a threat by creating an extraordinary event.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303115519	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303115521	But Mrs Ida Auken did not mention a single initiative that she herself had taken as a minister. Wouldn't it be a little good to try to recognise the process which, as such, is now in place and to which there has now been a number of answers in relation to the fact that these registrations have been made, and then we will have a discussion on a solid basis, can we count on, here in 2018-2019? So does Mrs Ida Auken not agree that something is happening in this case and that there is a process? Wasn't it worth getting it recognized?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303115554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303115557	If sir... Erling Bonnesen had listened during my speech, he would have heard that I just recognized that there was a process. I just do not think it is too early for us to say in this Chamber that the state also has a responsibility. That is why we in the Radicals have chosen to support the SF's proposal for adoption, because we think it is important also to bind ourselves to the responsibility of helping to solve this problem. And the Radical Left is ready to drop the money on the finance laws from 2017 onwards and try to get into the work and see if we can get the former owners to join us. I believe that this should also be recognised by the Left as coming from a party that can face up to its own responsibilities and obligations. And it is therefore a greater step to take for some than it is for others who can demand things from the Finance Act, but should not have everything to hang together. So yes, at least I think that is a concrete initiative. Another thing I can mention is that since we... it must wait, for the time has passed). I have to wait, says the President.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303115646	Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303115653	Thank you. It's annoying when the time is too short, isn't it? I should just like to ask whether this is a change of attitude on the part of the Radical Left, because while we had Mrs Kirsten Brosbøl as Minister for the Environment and Radicals as part of the government, we had a conciliation in which, according to the speech paper, Mrs Kirsten Brosbøl says: on the question of political responsibility, I would like to make it clear that the regions have full responsibility for public action against soil pollution, including pollution at Høfte 42. I suppose that was supported at the time. And then I just have to ask: has one changed one's mind and has it been the sale that has changed one's mind or what the hell has happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303115730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303115733	In the introduction to my speech, I said quite clearly that the responsibility for soil pollution lies with the regions. What I want to open up to today is a discussion about whether this matter is not so extraordinary that we have to find out that the state has a responsibility, because I simply think it is a disgrace that there is pollution over there. I do not think it is that interesting whether we have changed our position. I can tell you that during our reign we were already discussing whether we should find the money in the Finance Act. And now I'm not gonna be entertaining about who wanted what and who didn't want to, but I can tell you that we worked radically behind the lines to find some money for this. I think that everyone wants to clean up, and then it is about whether you want to go out and use the negotiating points you have in any given political situation to find the money too. I really think that's the interesting thing here, and I really don't think that anybody in this room doesn't think that the state has some part of the responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303115826	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303115829	I think it is positive because it also tells us that we can be constructive, even if we have our own proposals for adoption and something like that, because we know that some money needs to be found. But that is why I think it would be very nice to acknowledge that Mrs Ida Auken has done so and I know that there is a process going on. Then you can relate to whether you think it is going fast or slow etc. and so on, but one can at least recognise that we are trying to do something. We must somehow resolve this problem, and I think I finished my speech by saying that no matter which box we take it from, it is still the taxpayers' money in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303115902	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303115906	Well, what I'd like to do with this discussion is because I know that our proposal for adoption doesn't get the majority to make as many people as possible say that they think the state has a responsibility. That is also what I asked the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And then, of course, it was also to commit myself and my own party that we will be held responsible, we will help to find the money from 2017 onwards. I do not think there is any doubt that, for those parties who are today willing to take the power of government and are in a position to do so, it is therefore more binding to print bills that you think twice. And that is also why I thought it was important to say that we should also try to see whether we cannot get some of the other former owners, who have an unconditional responsibility, to take their part. And then politics is such that those who hold the power of government must have it in common, and I have also recognised that I know it is the other side of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303115957	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's no more questioners. The sitting will be suspended until 8 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303130104	We shall continue Question F 13 to the Minister for the Environment and Food on the clean-up of pollution at Høfde 42, and we shall now proceed to the Minister. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303130125	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Danish Parliament for a good and thorough discussion of a relevant topic. As Members of the House, I share the concern that exists when nature is exposed to strain or danger, and it is clear that it is also in the light of the fact that many of the issues that have been raised today have been discussed. Let me make a few comments on some of the points that have been made by Members. I would like to say to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr that, with regard to the assessment with reference to 2006, when the spunsen was launched, there was a lifetime assessment of 10 to 15 years. In 2016, we have a new assessment that says that there are 25 years of additional lifespan. To that, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr says that it is time for us to act. But it's not in my world, it's not in the government world. It is time for the authorities responsible for this to continue the line they have taken, and that means that there is a 25-year guarantee. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr also says that responsibility is left to the region and COWI alone. No, not really. In my ministry, of course, we follow what happens in such a place. If we are asked to assist, to be consulted, etc., then of course we are doing so, because of course my governments are also aware that there is a challenge here. After all, all coastal protection alone lies with my ministry via the Coast Directorate, so it is not the region, nor is COWI alone, who is responsible for this whole area. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr then says, on the basis of the observations made by Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr on the spot, but also on the basis of imagery, that the entire depot is in danger of going into the sea. Personally, I think this is something of an assessment to be able to do on the basis of pictures and visits of its own, whether it is four or five, or how many it may be, considering that we have just received a consultant's report saying that it can last the next 25 years. Are there changes in the climate that cause stronger storms, major floods or the like? Yes, there is, and that is a serious matter, and of course we take stock of that, and it is also part of the considerations that are in connection with the general coastal protection that the government will be working on in 2016. In my world we shall not have a renewed dialogue, which Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr invites. This is to be understood in the sense that dialogue is always useful and I have been pleased to hear the views expressed today, but I await the clarification that will be provided by the regions until 2018, after which we invite to negotiate a new agreement. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr mentioned Mrs Margrete Auken, who had been chasing the case for years, and Mrs Ida Auken herself said here that this was not one of the things that Mrs Ida Auken managed to address as Minister for the Environment, but it is always gratifying that one can be concerned about a matter afterwards, and of course we take note of that concern. This isn't just a rejection of dialogue. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr invited me to take a look at the area with Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, and I could then, as Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr mentioned, put on a safety vest or a swim vest, and I would very much consider that if Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr then put on a bikini. And we can do that here, because Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr can, of course, stand on land if I have to go into water, and I do have a belief, but I do not have a belief that I can walk on water, and that is why I will, of course, put on a safety vest if necessary, in view of the considerations made by Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Sir. Jonas Dahl, who is unfortunately not present in the Chamber at the moment, said that Cheminova himself is making the readings. It was in a question to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, I think it was. I am informed that this is not true. It is the region that carries out and is responsible for the measurements, but they are analysed in Cheminova's laboratories, and that is something quite different. I am so confident that the laboratory analyses carried out by the measurements are correct, and why so? Yes, because the people who work at Cheminova live in the area, and no one could do themselves a greater disservice than laboratory analysts, who might come out with an incorrect analysis of the results, with the risk that they could see pollution coming into the sea themselves. There have been a number of concerns from the Alternative and from the Enhedslisten. Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding of the Enhedslisten addressed the problem that the government should accept gradual pollution. I would very much like to see Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding document that. I have not said at a single time, as Minister for the Environment and Food, that it is acceptable for there to be a gradual pollution. So I would very much look forward to explaining this to the rapporteur after this debate. Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding also says that we let the poison leak out slowly. I would very much like proof of that too. It is a very serious accusation to address us, so I would very much like to have a thorough record of that. And then Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding says that we are fleeing responsibility and nothing could be more wrong. There is a responsibility with the Region of Central Jutland. It is provided for in an agreement. And we do not come running in from the right as a government and take away from the region the responsibility that they have also rightly made the economy have. The responsibility of the state was one of the other issues discussed with regard to this concern about who is responsible if it were to turn out that it suddenly went into the sea to the detriment of fishermen, for tourism, for business and for all those who live along the west coast of Jutland, where I myself am. It is clear that if there is a huge toxic disaster in Denmark, if there is a huge natural disaster in Denmark, then a Parliament will relate to it just as it has done in relation to storm damage and other things. Does this mean that the government is printing a check in advance today? No, it doesn't. Nor does the government worry that the depot is going to smoke in the sea as it has been slightly between the lines in here. We take it seriously, we have a discussion with the region, and we have a report that now shows that there is certainty that this will last for the next 25 years. Mrs Ida Auken made a surprising point of view, namely that companies that have sold their business should be forced to pay for clean-up, in this case the Auriga Foundation, which has sold Cheminova to a private US-owned company, even if it is not part of any legislation or agreement. The government won't. The government will not raise the matter further until 2018. Do we get the impression that there are relationships around Høfte 42, which are serious? It certainly does. I myself have had a dialogue with some of those present in the gallery. I am listening carefully and seeing the picture documentation that is being presented, and that is why the Coast Directorate is of course also looking at the conditions surrounding the whole coast protection. In those words, I would like to thank you for an enlightening and good debate with the Things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303131008	Thank you very much, Minister. We have a number of brief comments to make. First, it's Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303131015	I have put a number of questions to the Minister before this debate, to which the Minister has also kindly replied before the debate. I think that is a qualification, including for the facts of the debate. In one of the answers, the Minister says that one is not willing to make an economic calculation of what the consequences will be, for example. for fisheries, for the people living in the area, for tourism and other things, if and if Høfte 42 should fall into the sea. I don't think any of us in this room want Høfte 42 to fall into the sea. I don't think anyone wants that. I think there are some of us who believe that there is a greater risk than others. However, we could get into that situation and that it had financial consequences for the fishing industry and other people in the area. In fact, the consequences are extremely severe and the Minister will not make a calculation of that. Why? That is the first question. The second question is: will the Minister give an answer to who will ultimately be financially responsible for resolving this problem afterwards? For the Minister has replied to me that it is certainly not the responsibility of the region.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303131132	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303131133	Thank you for the question. But when I haven't wanted to make a calculation, it's because you can say, "What am I supposed to calculate?" Is this the entire storage facility going into the water? Does this have consequences for the fishing hours north of the fishing grounds or south of it? Where does the ocean current take pollution? Should we do an analysis of fish stocks all the way to Doggerbanke? In other words, it is quite unrealistic to have to calculate in advance what consequences it will have. If it is a wind coming from the north on that day, then poison is washed all the way down the west coast of Jutland, yes, it will have a huge impact on tourism. If the weather is still standing after it may have gone to the sea if it should happen yes, then it may only have consequences for tourism right in the area. And there are not many tourists on Rønland, although it is a nice place. What are the consequences of this on the fishing side? Well, it's completely unqualified to answer from my side, and that's why we shouldn't, of course, make calculations of something that is a thoughtful situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303131236	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303131237	Well, I think that's a confession case. This can have very, very major consequences, and that is what the Minister is really saying. There are two things the Minister says in his reply, which I would just like to pursue a little. The Minister says that climate change is not only the responsibility of the region and COWI, although I have actually received it as an answer, but that it is also the responsibility of the Minister. I am delighted about that, and so I would like to ask how it can be that the model calculations that you have, in relation to how the sea eats the coast, are still based on Dutch model calculations from 1986 and that you have not chosen to update the material base. As I understand it, it is the region's choice that it should be this model, and now the minister also says that it is the Minister's responsibility, and therefore I would like to ask the Minister (1) if he was interested in perhaps updating the way in which it is done, and (2) whether, in relation to the tests that are being taken I am aware that it is the region and Cheminova who are subsequently looking through them could imagine that some more samples were taken northwards and a little more southwards, and whether the Minister might be able to enter into dialogue with the region about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303131341	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303131342	Thank you. Well, it's not a confession case. Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr is not going to play with the words. This isn't a confession case. When Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr asks me whether an analysis can be made and if I will do so, I will answer: No. So this isn't a confession case. I have said that it is unqualified to start talking about the need to analyse what can happen if Høfte 42 goes to sea. As far as climate change is concerned, yes, it is the responsibility of the Minister when he is Minister for the Environment and Food in relation to coastal protection. It is the Minister's responsibility, because it falls to me, and it lies as a resort with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303131416	The next question is Mrs Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303131418	We are already finding out that the Minister is having some difficulty with the polluter pays principle. It is a good old principle in Denmark that those who make money or earn money from pollution also have a responsibility because the polluter pays. But we'll have to take that another time. What I would like to ask the Minister is whether he does not think that this is so much a matter that one can talk about the state having a responsibility here, even though the regions are responsible for combating soil pollution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303131447	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303131448	The Minister, whom I am at this moment, has not broken with the understanding that it is the polluter who pays. The state has just helped with part of the security of the whole of Høfte 42 because the state itself has deposited waste there in its time. So where Mrs Ida Auken gets from, that I should break with the polluter-pays principle, I do not know. Mrs Ida Auken will have to explain that. I don't see this as such a case, so the state has to do anything other than what the state does: engage with the regions in meeting the responsibilities of the regions, and in 2018 on the basis of the reports coming from the regions, start a new debate in 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303131528	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303131530	It has been the case twice in history that the state lifted its responsibilities in this matter and went in and did some things. I believe that we have come to the time when it will be appropriate to clean up completely here, not least in the light of the new climate change. It is just in this situation that I would like to ask the Minister whether he recognizes that the State still has a responsibility for the pollution and permits it gave, and that it can therefore also be said that this case is extraordinary in relation to other pollution cases, which are the sole responsibility of the regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303131603	We'll move on to the next question. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303131614	It's okay. I just want to answer Mrs. Ida Auken, if you don't mind. When we have reports from the regions in 2018, we have to discuss with the regions what they recommend in terms of dealing with this situation. It will, of course, be a matter which will also be discussed in the Folketing, and so, depending on the political party in which you sit and who has the power of government at that time, it can be argued whether the state should intervene more or less in the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303131637	Then we move on to the last one asking in this round. This is Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303131644	Thank you very much. I would like to start by welcoming our new Minister for the Environment and Food. I can already sense that we probably have a lot of cheerful times and hours ahead of us with exciting political debate. I would like to ask the Minister one question: can the Minister guarantee that no pollution, no one at all, is leaking out of Høfte 42?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303131707	I would like to thank you for your welcome. I am also quite sure that this area will be both constructive, funny, but also sometimes critical to discuss with our different environmental views. I can assure the rapporteur that it is the Central Jutland Region that is responsible for what is going on in Høfde 42, and it is also the Central Jutland Region that is responsible for the possible disappearance of poison from the depot. This is being analysed on a regular basis, and that is what Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr also explained, namely the analyses that are being analysed at Cheminova. In the event that something might happen that requires exceptional measures, we have to deal with it. The last time the spun wall was made, it was done because of the spill that was at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303131753	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303131756	Thank you for your answer. If there should be an extraordinary situation, then there will be pollution at Høfte 42, who is responsible for cleaning up?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303131808	It is the region that is responsible. But it is clear that it depends on the scale. As we saw in Fredericia, when there was a collapse at the port, there was an emergency response in connection with it. I would then at any time, if there were a major, serious release, talk to my ministerial colleagues about whether the government with the responsibilities we have could assist with material to ensure that there is no natural disaster. In exactly the same way, there is a preparedness that assisted with the release that was in Fredericia. But it is the region that is responsible. However, since I live in a country, as the rapporteur also does, where we have an interest in the absence of sectoral conditions, it is quite natural that we should talk about solving the problems together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303131857	Thank you, Minister. Since Mrs Mette Abildgaard had no opportunity to be present at the beginning of the debate and was thus able to give her rapporteur's speech there, Mrs Mette Abildgaard will have the opportunity to do so now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303131910	Thank you very much. I have to apologize to the Folketing that I wasn't here, but I really got locked out. There were then some individuals who were allowed to be escorted in, including political commentators, but one was not as important as a member of parliament that one could be allowed in because one had to be on the platform. Apparently that was not a good enough argument, so I am very sorry for the delay. I would very much like to have the opportunity to say on behalf of my party that, of course, we also take the situation with regard to Høfde 42 quite seriously. If the depot collapses, breaks out into the sea, it can have very, very major consequences for the environment and, of course, we should be extremely careful. "Better safe than sorry" is probably an expression that fits very well in this situation. But that does not change the fact that the fight against soil pollution is the responsibility of the region in terms of legislation. However, I would also like to say very clearly that in the Conservative People's Party we also believe that the state has a responsibility in this matter. The state itself has helped to pollute and thus bears a share of the responsibility. The state has also been involved in cleaning, as it were, in two rounds. Unfortunately, however, we have not reached the end of the road. On the part of the Conservative People's Party, we would like to follow the situation closely. It was important for us that this climate change issue was written into the adoption text that we are behind together with the Left and the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Social Democratic Party, because we must just bear in mind that there are weather phenomena that are changing. We get more wind, we get stronger storms, etc., and of course we have to remember to take this into account when assessing whether the depot can hold tight in the future too. Now we look forward to the regions in 2018 getting an overview of the pollution that could threaten surface water, and then in 2019 this priority and funding for the further efforts will be lacking. But I would also like to be honest and say from the Conservative People's Party that we will by no means rule out the possibility that the state can go in and finance it here, because this is an extraordinary situation. It is difficult for the region alone to carry out this task. Finally, I would just like to refer to what my Socialist colleague said about the fact that if there is a new situation, of course we will have to re-evaluate it. But in the first place we also have to have confidence in the professional judgements which say that it does not present a risk at this stage. With those words, I would like to thank you for wanting to listen a little late.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303132158	We have a brief comment to make. This is Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303132203	Thank you very much for the rapporteur's speech. I agree with a great many of the points of view, among others. climate change puts this in a new perspective and a new light. I would like to ask the rapporteur: since it is now the case that the state has received a considerable amount of profit tax as a result of the sale of Cheminova, is it not fair that we are now saying that extra money has been put into the register that we are spending it on cleaning up instead of waiting and allowing Høfde 42 to be included in a general priority discussion on soil pollution, since we now know that this is an extraordinary situation, an extraordinary pollution with exceptional risk?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303132247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303132249	I am not quite keen on exactly when the sale took place and in which budget year the money came in. However, as far as I can judge, that opportunity is missed for that budgetary year, but I can follow the questioner's view that it would then have been obvious to think along those lines. For us, it is about looking ahead and now we are waiting in the beginning of 2019, but I would like to emphasise that we do not deny that the state can help fund this over a number of years in cooperation with the region and hopefully some of the other responsible parties that are also in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303132327	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303132329	Thank you. I think that was a very constructive answer. Then I very much hope that in the long term, as I read the texts of the adoption, we will be able to maintain this dialogue very closely with those of the SF, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Radical Left, and those of the remaining parties, so that we can find a solution to the Høfde 42 problem in the very foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303132353	We are very aware that a number of people in the community need clarification. I hope they are comfortable with the fact that this enclosure has now been made and the assessment of how long it can last. However, as I said earlier, it is better to be on the safe side of this issue, which is why I certainly do not hope that we will have to spend 25 years in the future before we get a solution to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303132418	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur of the questioners, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303132425	I would like to thank you very much for a good and thorough debate. In fact, I think our common North Sea deserves this, because this is not just a question of those who live in Thyborøn or fish in Limfjorden or fish in the North Sea. That's kind of our problem, all of us. If Høfde 42, God better, should end up in the North Sea, then it will be a problem for the whole of Denmark. That would really be a scandal. I am glad that everyone thinks this is a serious problem. There is something that needs to be done, everyone says. The patience of certain parties is greater than that of me, I must admit. Maybe that's not my strong suit either, that with patience. But I also think that new developments have emerged, among others. in 2015, when Aarhus University chose to sell Cheminova to an American company. In connection with this, funds were just released, and sales were given the opportunity to contribute to cleaning up the site. Well, that's the new part. In addition, we must also recognise that the images we see from climate change are one of the things that should attract attention. I am glad that the Minister says that he also has a responsibility to follow developments with climate change, because there is no doubt that if we do not keep an eye on the 100-year storms forward-looking and this is the case for the whole coast, but there is a separate challenge with Høfde 42 and we are facing some insurmountable problems. We want to help solve that. We would like to look constructively at what is forward-looking. I can of course hear that there is no majority in favour of the SF's proposal for adoption. I am pleased that the alternative, the Radical Left and the Enhedslist support the proposal for adoption and that we could do it together. I'm really glad. However, I can hope a little that a majority in the Folketing will help to look at what the financial consequences of this can be. It is not because I want the Minister to get himself into something unrealistic, but at least some scenarios can be discussed. I think it's important to have that in the back of your head. Maybe it'll cost 125 million. kr. for the state to help clean up this land, but if we don't clean up, then the financial consequences can be much greater. In addition, I think it is important to have a very factual discussion of the tests that form the basis for assessing the leakage from Høfde 42, so that we all feel safe so that there is no mud out there with whether it is right or not. It would be great if we could discuss further with each other what kind of tests are being taken, how they will be assessed afterwards and whether they are the right places to be taken. They're gonna be taken in the fall. Everyone who lives near the North Sea and I know the Minister does know that the sea is quieter during the summer. So when you take the tests in September, they'll probably give a different picture than if you take them in April or May. In such areas, we could try to meet each other so that we could have a common understanding of the challenges we face. I think that would be good for all parties, so that no myths are formed. I am not interested in discussing the problems either, but I am interested in resolving them. So thank you for a good and thorough discussion. I'm glad. I am also pleased that the Conservative People's Party mentioned in its concluding remarks that the state also has a responsibility. I think that is a good thing for the further discussion, because it makes it possible to open up that discussion as well. Many parties have said it is serious. All parties have this sort of thing, but they refer to 2018 and 2019 when we need to do something about soil pollution. I am sure that in this respect, and preferably before, I would like it to be no secret, we take the Høfte 42 case very seriously. This is a very unique case. But you shouldn't be in any doubt. I'm not going to wait until 2019. So, in order for there to be clear lines, I would like to say that I come back to the Parliamentary Assembly at least once every six months with this discussion, because I think, in a sense, that the Western Jutlanders deserve us not to forget them. It may well be that there is a long way to West Jutland, but we have seen a common commitment. I am sure the Minister would like to come with me to West Jutland, even if he should not expect to see me in a bikini. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303132900	As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place on Tuesday, 15 March 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303132913	The debate is open. It's sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303132942	Thank you for that, President. In the Social Democratic Party we feel that we want growth and employment to be created throughout Denmark, and we therefore also support the government's overall plans to relocate state jobs so that it can contribute to a better balance for Denmark. The relocation of state jobs not only does it, but, together with other initiatives, it can help to move in the right direction when it comes to achieving a balance between Denmark and Denmark. The bill we are discussing here is part of that objective. Part of the goal of the transfer of tasks and 430 years' work from the Danish Working Environment Agency to ATP is that essential parts of the process will eventually be transferred to decentralised centres in Haderslev and Vordingborg. As much as we support the relocation of state jobs, we are also concerned that this is being done on a proper basis. This is true both in relation to the relocation of jobs, but also in relation to the transfer of the specific tasks from the Labour Damage Board to the ATP and the new self-employed institution, Labour Market Insurance. We therefore have a number of questions and concerns on the part of the Social Democrats, having read the draft law and the consultation answers carefully, which we want to see clarified in the further work of the committee. We believe, for example, that it is important for us to be guaranteed that the transfer of tasks will not adversely affect the processing times. It is extremely important that we reduce the present far too long duration of proceedings. That is why we need to be sure that ATP can deliver a secure operation of the task, including a guarantee that the relocation itself to the decentralised centres will not have to be financed with fewer employees and therefore longer processing times. We also believe that it should be made very clear that the Minister for Employment continues to have full political responsibility for the legislation on accidents at work and for other powers of instruction to be clarified. In addition, we believe that we should look at whether it is optimal that labour market security should have both a decision-making authority and an appeal unit under the same roof. This may immediately give rise to certain legal concerns. These are just some of the issues that we think we should look at in future work. On the part of the Social Democratic Party, we hope that the exercise of moving tasks from the Labour Damage Board to the ATP, including Labour Market Insurance, can contribute to a good solution to the problems that have been and are around the processing time, while contributing to the relocation of state jobs. However, as I said, this must be done in a responsible and responsible manner. That is why, in the further work of the committee, we look forward to taking the bill further into account. And now I look at the Chamber and I shall say on behalf of the Radicals that they share the same view as the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303133248	Thank you to the rapporteur. We go further in the rapporteur's line, and this is Mrs Marlene Harpsøe from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303133308	In the Danish People's Party we want an equal Denmark. For a number of years there has been a tendency for state jobs to be created here in the capital. In the Danish People's Party we work for the whole of Denmark. Denmark must and must be a coherent country. When state jobs are primarily located in the capital, it helps create a skewed Denmark • a Denmark that has broken into two. This is by no means appropriate, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party have been working for several years to ensure that we have just moved more state jobs from the capital and out around Denmark. That is why this bill is also something that we in the Danish People's Party can fully support, because that is exactly what we have worked for a very long time for should happen. Now it's not just the Labour Damage Board that's moving out, so to speak. Other governments do the same. But it must and must be the case that the whole country is an attractive place to live and work. It is therefore very important that we, as politicians and legislators, take a political responsibility for making it attractive to live, whether it is in Haderslev or in Silkeborg, Thisted, Holbæk, Svendborg, Nykøbing Falster, Hillerød etc. And therefore it is also very gratifying that today we are discussing these bills to transfer the Danish Labour Damage Board to Vordingborg, Haderslev and Hillerød. The aim of the legislative proposals is to establish both L 140 and L 141 which we co-operate here. The social security system will then receive technical and administrative assistance from the ATP. In the future, the Labour Market Occupational Insurance will be responsible for the current tasks of the Labour Damage Board concerning the handling of specific cases of personal injury and the tasks of the Labour Market Occupational Sickness Insurance concerning the financing of compensation costs, etc. and payment of compensation, etc. in the field of occupational disease. It is also important to point out that these legislative proposals do not alter the rights and obligations of injured persons or insurance companies under the Work Damage Insurance Act, and it is also important to point out that it is still the Minister of Employment who has the highest political responsibility for the area. We in the Danish People's Party are aware that there are currently problems in the Danish Labour Damage Board with too long processing times. There is now a large hump of old cases which understandably has an impact on the overall and average duration of proceedings. However, in the Danish People's Party we are of the opinion that it will be positive both for employees of the Danish Labour Protection Agency and for citizens who have an occupational injury case during treatment that the task from 1 July is transferred to ATP. ATP is known for their rather efficient and professional work, which is why it makes great sense that, according to the draft law, the Danish Labour Protection Agency is, as it were, converted into the Labour Market Occupational Safety Agency and will in practice be covered by the ATP. Geographically, this means that in the long term you will have to move from premises on Østerbro in Copenhagen to Vordingborg, Haderslev and Hillerød. In the long term, we in the Danish People's Party have no doubt that it will lift the case and that in the long term we will also achieve shorter processing times. We cannot, of course, deny that the transfer can have an impact on the processing times, but we in the Danish People's Party are extremely aware of this and we follow it up to ensure that we do not get extra long processing times. Against this background, we in the Danish People's Party can support the legislative proposals, and of course we have also noticed that we have previously moved, for example. the payment center under SKAT from the capital to Ringkøbing. It was with an incredibly positive result and we believe that it is possible to relocate jobs. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303133809	We have one brief comment to make, Mr President. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303133813	The rapporteur said at one point that she was not hoping that this reorganisation would change the situation of the injured. I have to say that I disagree very much. I hope, in particular, whether these changes are being implemented or other initiatives are being taken, that we will change the situation of the victims. They are quite unacceptable. They really need to be changed, and that should be what lights up at the top. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur what in the world it is that makes her think that ATP should do better than the very experienced but overloaded people of the Labour Damage Board. Why should the ATP, which has never touched a cause of industrial injury, be better at doing the work than the Labour Damage Board is?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303133902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303133903	At any rate, it can be said that, first of all, it is not the case that, as an employee of the Labour Damage Board, you will not be able to go to the new jobs. You'll still be able to move away if you want to. For it must of course be up to the individual. That also says that there are some special professional staff who have to deal with these matters. This is not something that has normally been heard under the ATP, and therefore what we are doing today is also new. However, as regards ATP as an organisation, we have to say that they have shown themselves to be very effective and professional in their work, and that is why I have no doubt that it will have an incredibly positive impact on the work that is going to take place in the future, in relation to the treatment of, among others. injuries in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303133956	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303133958	Now it might seem rude to ask whether the rapporteur has read the contributions to the report. This is, of course, expected in such a situation. There are really serious warnings from DA to the Workers' Injuries Association and a number of trade unions against this. Big warning lights are on in this context. Can the rapporteur imagine that a company which already has very, very serious problems with unreasonable waiting times and stress would have to reorganise itself in the first place and in the second place move to three destinations which are actually as far away from each other as it can be in Denmark, without the fact that everything else offers even less service?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303134042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303134043	First of all, a little teasing: No, I have not read any contribution to the report, as Mr. Christian Juhl just mentioned, because they haven't received yet. They do so only when we have to submit a report. However, I have read the hearing answer and, of course, have noticed the various hearing answers that have come. Then I just have to say that we are, for example. has an example from Ringkøbing. We transferred SKAT's payment center here from the capital to Ringkøbing. Some 150 new employees had to be recruited, and qualified workers could easily be found. And in fact it also turned out that within a very short period of time the payment centre improved. You turned 70%. more efficient. So this argument that when there is a relocation and a reorganisation, it is equal to a poorer processing time, is not necessarily true. It can get better.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303134140	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303134149	Today we are discussing two legislative proposals: L 140 and L 141. The legislative proposals are part of a comprehensive legislative package on the transfer of tasks from the Labour Damage Board to the ATP, and they are both part of the government's plan On 1 October 2015, the Government presented a plan for the relocation of state jobs from the metropolitan area to the entire country. After all, the State's organisations solve tasks for the benefit of citizens and companies throughout Denmark, which is why the task solution must also be distributed throughout the country. The tasks must be carried out effectively and of high professional quality. It's important. The plan is therefore to create a better geographical balance in Denmark, which will create more proximity to citizens and businesses. The two legislative proposals that we are discussing today will, in the transfer of tasks, only change the responsibility of the authorities and the performance of the procedural tasks. Thus, it is proposed that a new self-governing institution be set up under the name of Labour Market Insurance, which will receive technical and administrative assistance from the ATP. The tasks of the Danish Labour Inspectorate and the Labour Market Occupational Sickness Insurance Office will thus be placed in the hands of the self-employed institution. The draft law assigns to the Labour Market Occupational Insurance all specific cases, including in relation to the financing of occupational diseases, the processing of personal injuries and the payment of compensation, etc. This does not alter the rights and obligations of injured persons and insurance companies. We want to ensure that citizens and businesses are treated in an effective and simple manner and that they are treated in a high professional quality, and we therefore propose that the two units be merged into one self-serving institution which can carry out this particular task. We thus help to create a better balance for Denmark. Against this background, the Left would like to recommend the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303134419	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303134422	I would like to ask the rapporteur when we in the government parties will get a real message on how to create more jobs. Well, it's fine to move around in jobs if there's a reasonable explanation for that. However, there is no explanation here that it provides benefits, either for users or for local areas. It does not create a new job anywhere, but it shifts some jobs from one place to another. When will we get a plan for when really new jobs will be created instead of just moving around the old ones?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303134457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303134459	The situation at the moment is that the number of jobs is increasing. The number of jobs in Denmark is increasing, and in our financial agreement we have actually relaxed the taxes and taxes imposed on companies, and this helps to create growth. So, overall, things are moving forward quietly. In the Left, we are so concerned about creating further growth, because we are not satisfied with the growth we are experiencing today, and we would like to see higher growth and thus the creation of more jobs. But this proposal is basically based on the fact that we believe that state jobs should be distributed fairly evenly across the country and that they should not all be lumped together in the metropolitan area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303134545	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303134547	Let us say that the rapporteur had a company that was in crisis and had problems delivering what it had to do. Would he then start experimenting with reorganising? Would he then start moving it to three different destinations, that is, without it being justified by the operation itself, but just because it was considered nice that it was in Haderslev, in Vordingborg or in Hillerød? Would you experiment with it if you are a company that has problems delivering what you have to in the area you are in?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303134618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303134619	In my opinion, it is necessary to look at how we can handle it better and better than today and to reduce the processing times. Because they are not satisfactory, they certainly are not. You can just look back at the last 3-4 years and see that there has been a replacement of directors and that there has been a processing system running in the ditch. So there's a whole series of things that make you say that there's just a need to look at this in a different way. There I think that ATP can be one of the solutions. Because they can handle IT systems and major administrative systems to such an extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303134702	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten
ParlaMint-DK_20160303134722	Thank you. After all, the bill is about transferring the activities of the Labour Damage Agency to another company, a so-called self-owned institution, and then the plan is to move it to three new destinations. As I have mentioned during the debate, I do not understand the deeper wisdom of moving the Labour Damage Board to Vordingborg and Haderslev and Hillerød in addition to making a few voters happy in those areas. There is no objective explanation for the fact that it should lie in precisely those cities • none at all. The tasks of the Labour Damage Board can be solved anywhere in the country, but they are not being solved well at the moment, and this is not because of the location, but because they are likely to be overloaded by tasks and burdened by some missteps over a few years. In my best opinion, it would be better to solve those problems first and then experiment with the organization afterwards, i.e. with relocation and division into three units. I think that even the most well run Danish company would recommend that such things should not be done if you want a company to function optimally, in other words experiment with both the organisation and with the location in the country. If moving a company was a good idea, but it doesn't. At the moment, everything is being worked out to make things work and to bring down the processing times. It was perhaps an idea that we concentrated on one thing at a time, or rather that the Minister concentrated on one thing at a time, so that we could get the company to work, and if otherwise there was a mood to experiment with the company, one could do so at that time. This can only result in one thing when you want to both reorganise and relocate and solve the problems in the company, and that is longer processing times in the coming years • longer processing times. After all, the Minister suggests this in the answers he gives when you ask him: yes, there will be longer processing times for the first few years. In addition, there are a number of objections from some of those who work with it. Unfortunately, I am burdened with working with occupational injuries myself for 15 years, and I would say that this is not the easiest area to work with. Together with the cashiers, it is the two most difficult legislative areas in the labour market. These are very complicated areas to work with, and I would therefore like to say that it is perhaps a good idea to listen to the comments made by various organisations. You can take the hearing from KL. They say that KL considers that it is essential both at the establishment stage and in the long term that there is a safe exercise of authority in this area, both in terms of quality and duration of proceedings. Yes, it is because it is not clear from the bill and from the Minister's markings in this area. Danish employers find it crucial to have a work injury system that works. Yes, of course. And DA is concerned about the fact that there is now a relocation of a state task, which is likely to be associated with a significant loss of knowledge and competence which risks both prolonging and increasing the processing process. In any case, the DA is interested in its cheapness and in many cases in its shortness. Note that it is not a trade union or some who are close to the left. But LO e.g. is sceptical about the relocation of the Work Damage Board's tasks to ATP and the planned relocation to Haderslev and Vordingborg in relation to the need to improve the case management. It is once again a clear marking; a red lamp that lights up: there is something wrong here. Danish Metal is opposed to the transfer of authority from the Danish Labour Damage Board. 3F, i.e. the Trade Union Confederation, is generally opposed to the current transfer of authority from the Danish Labour Damage Board, and this is in recognition of the acute serious situation of the Danish Labour Damage Authority. It is as if you choose to look at it big and say: Here is a well-trimmed organization, let's just experiment with it. Insurance & Pension considers that the transfer of the tasks of the Labour Damage Board to ATP is significantly different from other tasks administered by ATP. Then why do we need to talk about ATP's quite excellent qualities in the area of ATP's work? They are relatively clear and simple procedures with which they work. It is not complicated occupational injury treatment, which they probably do not know very much about. I find that striking, and I have been looking for an objective explanation that it should be ATP. Because they are good in one area, there is no guarantee that they can help in the area of occupational injury. A large trade union is also very concerned that a public authority as important and sensitive as that in the field of occupational injury is entrusted to the new entity and, in practice, to ATP's administrative business. Once again, an example of this, and I fully agree, is that this is a very, very sensitive area. It is not just the payment of money that can be paid back, but it is people who have had their health ruined and who are waiting and many of these people get sick from waiting. The wait alone makes them sicker. And that's why it's a very, very sensitive area. There are people in this country and I would like to remind you that about 60 000 people get a work injury every year that loses the house, which loses the family due to long processing times and uncertainty about the family's finances when you are out in such a situation. These are harsh conditions, and that's why maybe we can't just talk about it as numbers and something practical that we can experiment with. The ACP Labour Damage Association also regrets that the government has initiated the relocations. And I have but the plan is to split it up. The Employers' Association of the Financial Sector says that they consider it both unjustified and highly questionable that such a large part of the private labour market is not represented on the Board of Directors. It's about how to build the new organization. And I would also like to ask the Minister to explain a little about how we deal with these things. Even the Ankestyrelsen has objections, and the Data Protection Agency has objections. All in all, I have it can mean loss of knowledge and competence. This could mean an extension and an increase in procedures and a shift in responsibility on the part of the Minister for Employment. I think it is thought-provoking that, in a situation where there are problems on a board, the Minister says: let me get it even further away from me so that I can blame others for how bad things are going. That's not good, sir. Minister. No analysis of the benefits and costs of relocation has been carried out, and this is also called for in some of the consultation responses. There is no precise description of the division of tasks, responsibilities, competences, legal certainty and access to documents. Can we not put it on the table so that we can also see what we have in mind in this area? In short, I think it would be extremely reckless to experiment with the situation of the workers, and that would be done by adopting these two legislative proposals, L 140 and L 141. We cannot vote in favour of what is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303135556	Thank you to the rapporteur. As there are no brief comments, we go further in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303135609	Thank you so much. The previous rapporteurs have examined the content, but in short it is of course that the Danish Labour Inspectorate is transformed into the Labour Market Insurance Institution as an independent institution, and that the handling of specific cases and administration is transferred to the ATP. We can support this bill. Something needs to be done in this area. We can hear from the rapporteurs here that there is a broad consensus on this. There are far too long waiting times in the Labour Damage Board today, and I fully agree with Mr. Christian Juhl in that it is a problem in itself in the sense that it thus helps to make people more ill and get people further away from the labour market. That's why something has to be done in this area. For us, it is not so much a matter of moving the Labour Damage Board and turning it into the Labour Market Insurance, it is about something happening in this area. We believe that this can contribute positively to reducing waiting times. ATP is good, they have a digitisation of their work, which we believe can be of great benefit in this area too, and that is why we can support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303135751	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's a brief comment: "I'm sorry, Olsen is coming down from the platform" Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303135802	Thank you. I would like my colleague to have a chance to deepen his opinions, particularly in two areas. The first is: what makes the rapporteur think that if you reorganise a company and divide it into three units, which is approx. 300 km apart, so can the work be done more efficiently? Why does the rapporteur not listen to some of the serious objections that have been raised that this risks both an increase in costs and an extension of the procedure? You also risk losing knowledge and competence when we move an organization like this, especially when we do a whole lot of things at once. There have already been major problems with computer systems, and I know what they are. We've put enough problems on the shoulders of the poor people who work on the Labour Damage Board.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303135855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303135856	Firstly, I would like to say that I have also read the answers to the hearings. I therefore also made contact with some of the organisations, and I must say that in my oral contact I did not sense the same scepticism that I have also read out of the hearings. It is therefore absolutely correct, as the rapporteur points out, that there have been problems with the computer systems of the Danish Labour Protection Agency. And there it is that ATP is going to take over responsibility. I know they haven't had those problems. They are very professional in this area, and that is why I believe they will be able to solve some of these tasks more quickly for the benefit of citizens and ultimately for the benefit of the whole of society. I would also like to say that this requires a follow-up, in other words a reform of the whole system of occupational injury, which I consider to be a prerequisite for getting started too. For my hope with that is that it will benefit the whole of society and, of course, for the benefit of individual citizens who are in the system, if we can get the waiting time down and thus hopefully many people back on the labour market more quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303140016	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303140018	We surely agree that there is a need for great insight, great knowledge, great routine to do something as complicated as occupational injury treatment. Does it not make the impression that virtually the whole horizon is being said that there may be a loss of competence and knowledge? Does it not make the impression that the Minister himself says in one of the answers to the questions: yes, we cannot immediately expect a reduction in the length of proceedings? Well, that doesn't mean there's something that doesn't just succeed like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303140100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303140102	When you make changes, there is a transition phase. You can't get around that. What is always hoped is that in the long term the gains outweigh the costs that are at the beginning when you change something. If you dare not have any costs at first, you cannot change things for the better in the long run. It is an important task for us in here sometimes to show some political courage and change some things, knowing that there may be some run-in difficulties, but that we expect a gain in the long run. And that's what I see here as an expression of. Moreover, I do not share the rapporteur's premise that it is possible to regard the Labour Damage Board as a company in that sense. After all, it is a question of carrying out some tasks, and if you consider that they are not performing those tasks properly and it does not work well enough, then you have to change it at some point. And that's what you do here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303140201	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303140216	Thank you. There have been long-standing problems with the handling of cases within the Danish Labour Damage Board in relation to the duration of the proceedings, errors of assessment, IT etc. The Minister for Employment will do something about this by moving the Labour Damage Board to a new self-employed institution named the Labour Market Insurance. Administration and procedure must then be carried out by the ATP. In the alternative, we are, as a starting point, in favour of both. ATP has a reputation for efficiency, efficient processing. We also think that the relocation of jobs is a good idea, although, of course, much more is needed to ensure growth in the province and rural areas in the long term. I myself am elected in North Jutland, and every workplace that is moved up there is therefore met with very, very great satisfaction and joy, and I must promise you all that there is competent labour to take care of those jobs. However, there are a number of questions to which we would like better answers in the next committee. There are some skeptical consultation responses in relation to whether the transfer of the Labour Damage Board to Labour Market Insurance/ATP will lead to a loss of competence through employee flight. We also want to know more about the financing of the future relocation, and we want to ensure that in practice, political governance of the new type of actors is maintained in relation to legal certainty issues, complaint advice and individual case handling. So the alternative will enter the committee procedure with an open mind. With us, it is the people who are injured who are at the centre. It is people who are entitled to compensation or who are waiting for their decision in cases which also have a very, very important impact on their families. If these laws end up making things better for those people, if it is our opinion that they do, for example. through shorter waiting times, fewer mistakes, better IT, then we will be supporting it. Otherwise, we do not, because then we think it would be smarter to add more resources to the Board of Occupational Injuries.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303140424	I would like to thank the rapporteur, and it was quite late once again that a request for a brief comment was made. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303140432	I'm sorry about my slow finger. I would like to hear something from the rapporteur. If we just use common sense and say that the company has major problems in advance, has had major problems and has been burdened with reorganisations, expansions, new data processing, etc. etc., does the rapporteur think that it is right now to reorganise once more and then move right out into every corner of Denmark, down to Vordingborg, over to Haderslev, up to Hillerød? Does the rapporteur really believe that it would be to take account of the injured and those at the centre? I mean, it can almost only go wrong, it can almost only cause major problems. I don't see just one corporate advantage in these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303140523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303140525	These are some of the things we really want to clarify, which we really want to go a lot deeper on, but I don't think that comparison with a private company really holds. I have a company of my own, a small company with four employees, and if I were to move it because of tumultuousness, I would wonder if there is a customer base in the place where it is going, and it is, to put it mildly, no less because you are moving the company. Another thing that makes the comparison really difficult is that an ordinary private company's goal is to create profit, of course value, but profit is a very central thing. We don't want to create that here. Here is the value we must create, value for injured citizens, and I think that makes business comparison difficult, so we will not relocate on the basis of how a private company would have worked. We're going to relocate and assess this relocation on the basis of whether it creates value for injured citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303140630	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303140632	I completely agree. This isn't a private capitalist company. It is a public enterprise, a public administration which must be managed and which must inspire employees to make good efforts for the purpose they have. In this way, it is a company like any other activity where you are some who have to solve a common task. This is a board of directors, and I therefore ask, because there must be management in every company: does the rapporteur think, if you have problems on this board, that if you reorganise and move it into every corner of the world, that you get a better operation out of it? Then I hope I've made myself clear. For my common sense tells me that yes, you create three other problems, and then we have to promise to have long waiting times.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303140723	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303140725	We would like to examine this with Enhedslisten. One of the reasons why we give it a chance is that leadership is extremely important. We think that this suggests that ATP is good at management, and if there is really good leadership, we think that this can be done wisely. But let us examine it, let us take a look at it, and let us dig deeper into the spade, as the Social Democrats say.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303140749	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303140803	If this bill is the answer, I wonder what was asked. I wonder how we can achieve this bill if we are to help a positive development, if we are to have the work injury procedure in mind and not all sorts of other things. At the same time, the government will set up an entirely new institute, namely Labour Market Insurance, transfer casework assignments to ATP and then physically move to three new cities. For SF, the question is: How do we make the treatment of occupational injuries work better? That is, of course, the key question. The natural answer will be to strengthen the Danish Labour Damage Board with more resources, not to close it down and move the rest to a new organisation, share the ATP and move out to three new cities, which have not already been noticed with special skills in this area. There are a number of different worried consultation responses. I'll settle for a few. HK raises a question of principle about the legal consequences for citizens when transferring authority responsibility from a public authority to an institution which is itself the enemy. Danish Metal believes that there is a risk of quality and processing times deteriorating, and Dansk Metal is also concerned about the fragmentation of several geographical units. The conclusion from Danish Metal is that they fear loss of knowledge and resources. It is not only from the trade union movement that criticism has been made. The Danish Employers' Association is also concerned that there will probably be a significant loss of both knowledge and competences in this context. I would say that there is no doubt that there is a need for a significant boost when it comes to improving the processing of occupational injury cases, both in time and in quality. But when that is the challenge, the draft law is just not the answer, although I will then acknowledge that there are some other good intentions behind it. However, if we focus on the treatment of occupational injury cases, I do not see that this bill brings us closer to a positive goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303141033	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303141052	We support the bill. We are not doing this because we want to stand by and say that everything will be better when it comes to dealing with occupational injuries, but it is part of a plan for the relocation of jobs that we are behind. It is clear that there may be some challenges with competences when moving a job, but we must then take that disadvantage with us. We believe that it is appropriate in the long term to do so, and that is why we are behind the two legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303141126	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303141129	We support the legislative proposals, despite the fact that there may be a number of disadvantages! In other words, the rapporteur believes that the most important thing in these two legislative proposals is to move a workplace from the Copenhagen area to three other destinations. But isn't the goal of running the Labour Damage Board primarily to solve occupational injury problems and to find out how people will move forward once they have clarified their situation and decided whether they are dealing with one or the other?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303141205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303141206	That's right. That's why we have the Department of Occupational Injuries.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303141212	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303141215	If, however, you have a completely different objective with the institutions, are you not on the wrong track anyway, regardless of what you want to achieve with other objectives? I believe that if you create some accidents for some very, very pressured people in society, in other words those who are injured in work, because you want to move a job, could you not experiment with some institutions that really have a surplus and room for new challenges instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303141245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303141246	If the Enhedslisten has any other proposals for jobs that can be moved out, I am sure the government will listen to that. But now I am just saying it as it is: there is a relocation of jobs here because there is a desire for it in order to achieve a better balance in Denmark. This is not something I, as elected in the metropolitan area, have come up with. But the party supports that it is done, and then we must stand by it when there are specific proposals, and we do so with our eyes open. I may be the only one who admits it, but everyone knows what it's all about. It is about creating that relocation, and then you have to make up for yourself whether the disadvantages that may be involved are some that you can stand by. And we think it is in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303141335	Thank you to the rapporteur. Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303141344	Thank you. And thank you for the consideration of the bill here in Things today. With the plan, the Government wants to improve the balance between the State and the citizens and companies........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ATP has many years of experience with large-scale administration. ATP has shown that they manage case handling safely and effectively. This experience can be very useful in the field of occupational injury. In practice, it will be the creation of a new self-governing institution in the ATP, the Labour Market Insurance Office, which will be responsible for the tasks transferred. Bill L 140 lays down the organisational framework for the institution. The social security system will have its own board of directors with representatives of the social partners and the public sector, and the social security system will be managed by a director. The occupational security of the labour market will be an independent public-law entity in which administrative rules applicable to public authorities are directly applicable. This is true, for example. administrative law, public disclosure law, personal data law. Employment and social security will receive technical and administrative assistance from the ATP. The legislative proposals also contain rules on, inter alia: the audit and annual accounts, as well as provisions on the supervision by the Minister for Employment of the Social Security for Workers. The transfer includes all the current tasks of the Danish Labour Damage Board concerning the handling of specific cases of injury. These are purely organisational changes. Thus, no change in the rights and obligations of injured persons or insurance companies is foreseen under the applicable legislation. The Labour Damage Board is currently also handling complaints under the Unemployment Insurance Act, etc. It is a task that is not related to the cases of injuries, and therefore this task is not transferred to the Labour Market Insurance, but is transferred instead to the Labour Market and Recruitment Agency. In addition, occupational insurance also takes over tasks relating to the financing and payment of compensation in the field of occupational diseases. And these are tasks that are already being administered by the ATP today. The task of occupational disease insurance in the labour market, however, is to assess whether decisions in occupational disease cases can be brought before the Ankestyrelsen, not to the occupational insurance of the labour market, but to a unit set up by the board of directors of the ATP. As a starting point, occupational safety in the labour market will ensure operation within the current framework. However, it is up to the new Board of Directors to define the future financial framework for labour market security. Since the transfer plan was published on 1 October last year, ATP and the Labour Damage Agency have been working to prepare for the transfer. The aim is that, following the possible adoption of the bill, the transfer is carried out in such a way that it supports safe operation for the benefit of the victims and that there is a safe transfer of employees. This means that the Labour Market Occupational Insurance will initially take care of the case from the current premises of the Labour Damage Board on Østerbro. In addition, employees of the Danish Working Environment Agency will be formally assigned to ATP in order to ensure that the competences are kept to the best possible extent in the field of occupational injury. The possibility of adapting the area to ATP's existing business model will be examined with a view to transferring essential parts of the case-law to the decentralised centres of the Labour Market Supplementary Pension in Vordingborg and Haderslev. The transfer of the Danish Labour Damage Agency to ATP is part of the government's plan to relocate jobs, which is important in terms of creating cohesion across Denmark. I would therefore like to thank you once again for the consideration of the legislative proposals, and I look forward to a good committee reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303141836	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303141838	Thank you. As far as I remember, the Minister has a very good knowledge of the organisation of the Danish Employers' Association, which has also given a hearing answer here. Don't make the impression that an organization like DA is worried about this and lights up some red lamps and says to the minister: Be careful with this. Maybe this is the wrong time to do this or the wrong way to do it? The second is that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party, as he himself said, quite frankly said that the main objective is to move jobs into the country and that it has been established as an ideological principle. If it gives some drawbacks and it probably does yes, then you take them with you. Does the Minister agree that there are disadvantages for the workers involved in reorganising them in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303141933	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303141933-2	All hearing answers are carefully examined, and all warning signals are thought through, regardless of who they come from. So in this way, all consultation answers somehow make an impression on us in a legislative process. To the question of whether we are prepared to take on board the disadvantages mentioned, the answer is no. There is no assessment on our part that there are disadvantages linked to the arrangements we make. There are always challenges when you change some things, but it is my opinion that it is urgently necessary to change the entire organizational framework and the entire business model of occupational injury treatment in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303142026	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303142028	I do not agree with the Minister. I think he is overlooking a series of things which will put extra strain on the employees of the Danish Labour Inspectorate and, as the Minister himself writes in one of the answers, it cannot be expected that this will cause a decrease in treatment time right away. I think he is right about that, and perhaps he is right that there will be no improvement at all because of this. The second is that ATP does large scale case processing in a relatively simple area that is manageable, and this is very easy to do. On the other hand, this is an individual case, and the individual case of occupational injury is rarely the same as the one that was dealt with three hours ago. That is to say, it is a very complicated procedure that cannot be discussed on a large scale; it cannot be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303142116	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303142117	It is undoubtedly the case that the thousands of reports received every year by the Danish Labour Protection Agency are a large-scale project, if you can put it that way. And as Mr. Christian Juhl knows, we have a board that has been in crisis for years because of too poor quality, because of recovered cases and because of a completely discarded IT system, which has had the consequence of working on a case-by-case basis that is decades old. We are strongly challenged and, in the view of the government, the best way to deal with these challenges is to move the institution to the labour market institution ATP, which has both competences in these fields and professionalism in developing and operating systems of this nature. Our goal is to make things better and to move things out in Denmark so that we can create a whole Denmark. Of course, we do not think that there is a single point where this is worse than it would otherwise be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303142227	Thank you. The last comment I have made on short remarks is that of Mr Seligman. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303142233	Thank you. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, the hearings have given rise to a whole series of questions which I would like to put at least during the committee's reading. Sir. Christian Juhl has read out something from the hearings, and it could be said that some of what is really going on again is the concern that there can be safe operation, so that you get an abbreviation rather than an extension of the processing time in connection with this relocation. Then I would like the Minister to clarify this and say a little more about what he was talking about here in his speech, namely how the process will be in connection with the planned takeover and relocation of the Labour Damage Board. What's the order of this? How long will it take? Where are we in relation to safe operation before a relocation takes place? I would like to hear the Minister say something about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303142323	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303142325	What is happening at present is that the social partners and the Ministry of Employment have discussions on corrections in the legal basis itself, i.e. a reform of occupational injury, on top of some technical committee work. That's one. The second is that it is linked to the development of a new processing system. The third is that the operating system we have today is so vulnerable that the Labour Damage Board simply cannot currently move anywhere. That's why it's gonna stay where it lives for the time being. However, the responsibility is currently transferred to ATP if the bill is adopted, so that one is able to link the development of new processing systems with assessments of how to build a new IT system, so that one is able to develop and implement it and then provide the basis for physically moving the board. It will be taken into account that physical relocation will take place on the basis of in-depth analyses by the Ministry of ATP and the Ministry of Employment, so nothing is going to happen either ill-considered or over the neck and head. On the contrary, I believe that we have been creating a kind of synergy solution to some very serious problems that we are facing and have been dealing with for a number of years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303142443	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303142444	Thank you. This was also something that the Minister said when we had recently consulted on the Danish Institute of Occupational Injuries. Another thing I would like to ask about now, if the Minister can say anything about it, is how the division of responsibilities will be. That is what many questions have also been raised about in the consultation answers: how will the division of responsibilities with regard to the ATP, with regard to the Labour Market Insurance, with regard to the Board of Directors in both places and then with regard to the Minister? What is the division of responsibilities? It is, after all, a question of procedure, of appealing to decisions; it is a question of instructional powers and then also of establishing rules. How is the division of responsibilities in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303142527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303142527-2	The starting point here is, of course, that there is no change at all for users, either for the injured or for the companies or insurance companies that work with them. But it is clear that when you move a company as you do here, there are a number of questions of legal certainty that need to be taken care of. We have explained them, and questions have been asked in relation to the work of the committee during this debate. And that is where we stand, because there must of course be clarity about that. However, I am convinced that legal certainty guarantees have been taken care of, both administrative law, complaints and so on, so that there is no deterioration anywhere and so that there are waterproof bulkheads between operation and redress, etc. In addition, there will be annual supervision by the Minister of Employment both in terms of safe operation and in terms of economy, tariffs, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303142624	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. No one else has asked for the floor for the debate, so they have ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303142639	The debate is open. Sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303142701	First of all, let me make it clear that when it comes to the relocation of state jobs, the position of the Socialists is that it is important to ensure a better balance in the distribution of government jobs in Denmark. That is why we also generally support the idea behind the government's relocation plans. There can and must be state jobs throughout the country, even outside the big cities. But it is just as clear a social democratic view that there must be objective and professional sense in the relocation, and it must be able to be economically sensible. We are not profited by the fact that relocation means loss of professionalism and leads to more trouble or bureaucracy, or that it will cost more tax dollars than necessary. The parameters also apply, of course, in assessing what is on today's agenda, namely the relocation of DIIS, as proposed by the government. The Danish Institute for International Studies is an important institution for Danish foreign policy, for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and for the many actors and organisations involved in foreign policy work. The portfolio of tasks is wide. DIIS serves the official work, government and parliament and cooperates with them and other central research institutions to clarify and research current foreign policy developments and also the Danish foreign policy situation. DIIS conveys to the general public the work through extensive participation in Danish and international media activities, through the organisation of debates, events and conferences, and DIIS has a comprehensive interface with NGOs, think tanks and research environments in Denmark and abroad. Both the administrative services themselves, but also the many seminars with the participation of politicians and researchers and NGOs and civil servants, are taking place today in Copenhagen, where most of the players are located. The reason why I am describing this here is because it is precisely a question of whether DIIS can carry out its professional tasks in the most appropriate way, which has been at the heart of the many critical consultation responses received by the government. We have to note that there has in fact been nothing more than critical consultation responses. This naturally leaves us on the socialist side with a whole range of questions to which we would like answers before we take a concrete position on the relocation of DIIS. We need more concrete information about how many of DIIS' central partners are based in Copenhagen and how many physical meetings are held with those partners. We need to be clear about how many hearings and seminars DIIS is holding, where the main audience are players in the metropolitan area or from abroad. We need to know how many foreign travels the DIIS staff carry out per year. year, and how many foreign guests and collaborators DIIS have visits within a year. We must also have more detailed calculations of the consequences for travel economy and time spent moving DIIS, so that, overall, we have an overall view of the economic consequences and also the production consequences of the proposal. Several organisations point out that the relocation of DIIS will also have implications for knowledge sharing, sparring and participation in events between the mentioned organisations and DIIS. Here we would like the Minister to answer whether he can ensure that the important knowledge sharing between organisations and DIIS will not be lost in this process or weakened. Finally, several organisations also point out that DIIS is an independent institution and that the draft law reduces the powers of the DIIS Board in a very important matter, namely the location of the Institute. We are concerned that the relocation of DIIS could set a precedent for State interference in other areas, since we have now wanted to set up a self-serving institution. We would also like to see the Minister's assessment of this. Overall, there are a great many questions and far too few answers from the government from the point of view of social democracy. There will now be an opportunity to do something about this during the legislative process. When we have all the questions raised, the Socialists will take a final position on the proposal for the relocation of DIIS.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303143152	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303143156	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur, and thank you for wanting to relocate state jobs overall. We are very, very much in agreement on that. Then the rapporteur is very curious about what it will be important to move DIIS to the second largest city of a city which already has a European level in terms of research. Does the rapporteur know about the cities of Brugge, Munich, Milan, Bonn, Glasgow and Bergen? I think the rapporteur does this, and if the rapporteur notices it, it is all cities around Europe that are not capitals, and it is all cities that have major research policy institutions that have been placed there and that are acting on a little the same terms as DIIS. So my question to the rapporteur is: Can the rapporteur not see that if this is possible in other European countries, where it has been visionarily said that development outside their capitals should also take place, then it is possible to move DIIS to Aarhus with the great benefits that are also in Aarhus in relation to easy access to media, easy access to Billund Airport, easy access to Aarhus University and their high level, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303143302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303143304	I'm well aware of the cities that Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen mentions. I don't know all the research institutions in those cities. There are probably some who are really, really good and well-functioning. I wouldn't question that at all. So is DIIS. In other words, no one has doubted that DIIS works very well in the way that DIIS operates today. And therefore there is also reason to clarify what the consequences are of moving. I also believe that a research institution in Brugge, which was one of the examples, Mr President. Michael Aastrup Jensen mentioned, would ask if it were so that they were asked to move somewhere else. Then, like, there has to be some practical and professional sense in it. And there we would like to have looked at more closely than what lies in the government's, I must say, somewhat slim consultation note, what the consequences are actually going to be. I hope the Left will also contribute to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303143402	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303143404	The left is always happy to enter into a dialogue, absolutely. Especially when we all hopefully agree on what the rapporteur himself said, namely that we should have relocated state jobs where it makes sense. And it makes sense here, if you want students, when they are finished at Aarhus University, at Aalborg University or at University of Southern Denmark, not to go to Copenhagen today to get jobs like this. these research jobs. So does the rapporteur, who has himself been elected in Jutland, not agree that if we are to stop centralisation, which unfortunately is in this research environment, then it is also necessary to take the lead and dare to take such a decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303143443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303143444	Well, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen is absolutely right that I am elected in Jutland. There are a great many in my party who are, and our starting point is that we want to help ensure that there is a balance in the distribution of government jobs. But this should not be at the expense of professionalism. Nor should this be done financially at all costs. I have seen that, for those reasons, the government has already cancelled some of the relocation planned. So that is just it: we would like to have things fully clarified before we take a final position.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303143526	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303143527	Thank you. I have to admit, therefore, that I am somewhat incomprehensible about the Socialist speech. When I hear the arguments, I can see nothing but that it must lead to a no to this. The rapporteur says that he has then asked a lot of questions, to which he wants answers, about how many key events and hearings you have, how much you use external and foreign people, how much contact you have with embassies etc. etc. But it is clear from the hearing answers that have come to light that there is a big difference between whether it is in Copenhagen or in Aarhus. If you look at the questions put by the Socialist rapporteur, there can be no doubt that when they are answered, the answer will be that it should be in Copenhagen. That is why I do not understand why we cannot get our act together and say no to this right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303143628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303143629	Now I am glad, on behalf of the rapporteur, that the SF's rapporteur has already clarified this issue and obviously believes that it should also be the Socialists. In the Socialist Group room, there is always room for people who want to influence the policy of social democracy. However, when we have decided not yet to take a position on this, it is actually because, despite the fact that there have been virtually only critical consultation responses in relation to some of the questions I ask, there are no answers to some of the issues I have mentioned here either. It has been raised as a criticism. But in order to assess whether these are real points of criticism and to assess the extent to which this is a problem, we simply need to get some more figures on the table. This is in order to assess the final consequence of moving DIIS. I hope, then, that the SF will respect the fact that we will get to the bottom of the matter before we take a position.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303143737	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303143738	We must always respect the fact that the questions have to be answered. That's right. But it is not always as difficult as it is then made. I believe that we are ten former Foreign Ministers, including some Social Democrats, who have no doubt that this is a bad idea. All foreign policy interested people you talk to are no doubt for a second that this is a bad idea and that it will weaken DIIS in the work that DIIS is doing, because it is a central place for the foreign policy discussion in this country. You have contacts with embassies, foreign researchers, external actors, various events, etc. etc. No one is in doubt about that. That is why I simply cannot believe that it should not be a little easier for the Socialists simply to say: we are saying no to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303143841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303143842	Well, as I said, there is room in the Socialist Group if you want to come in and influence how the Socialist Group views things and what position we have. I can only say that we have also noted that virtually only critical consultation responses have been received. We have also taken note of what a large number of foreign ministers have said about the matter. This, of course, is also part of our deliberations on the matter. But it is precisely in view of the fact that we have to have a better overview of the extent of meetings, travel etc. and, therefore, also of the practical consequences that DIIS will have to be moved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303143929	Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303143930	Thank you. As far as I remember, the rapporteur from the Left comes from Denmark's fifth largest city, but he forgot to mention it entirely among the magnificent cities he had in his hands. I remember it as Randers. They haven't even been taken into account in this, but fortunately Aarhus is in the election area on the edge of Randers. Is it particularly nice here in the Folketing to discuss what can be moved to one's electoral area and thus make the employees or institutions cannon food in our election campaigns? Does the rapporteur think that this is a good way of making policy? There will be no new jobs created, you will move them, you will steal them from your Copenhagen opponents, if that is what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303144019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303144020	Once again, I think that achieving a better balance in the distribution of government jobs in Denmark is important. It is an important matter, it supports the Socialists, and we have also supported the vast majority of the concrete relocation projects proposed by the government. But there are also projects that we have been critical of, and I have also noted that there is at least one that has been withdrawn from the government's programme because it was simply too expensive. But before we take a position, and this has been the case in every case, we will be allowed to have the matter fully clarified, and that is whether it is a matter of moving something to one's or another's constituency. In my view, the electorate must be completely ignored in a situation such as this one here and in relation to an institution such as the DIIS.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303144119	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303144120	I'm kind of happy about that. For the Liberal and Democratic Reformist Group, the Liberal and Democratic Reformist Group, the Liberal and Democratic Reformist Group, the Liberal and Democratic Reformist Group and the Liberal and Democratic Reformist Group, the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party, the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European Liberal, 'Cause I think that's underneath the belt seat. Sorry. I agree that there must be balance in the country. But would it not be a better strategy to create new jobs around or only move them to new cities where there is an objective reason why these public institutions can be run better in those cities? Wouldn't that be the only right thing to base this on? Then it would also be much easier to relate to DIIS.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303144156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303144157	At any rate, I agree with Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur that it should not be the case that the relocation of an institution would mean that we would have a worse professionalism and a worse job solution, nor, in my view, would it mean that we would spend relatively many more tax dollars on solving the same task. Of course, we need to look at what is the main task of DIIS, and with whom it is mostly working when we have to assess whether it is sensible to make a relocation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303144239	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party now. It's sir. Claus Kvist Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303144251	Thank you. Shortly after the last parliamentary elections, the government presented its proposal... Better balance sheet. With this initiative, 3,900 government jobs are expected to be relocated from the metropolitan area to the rest of Denmark. The relocation of state jobs has for years been a matter for the Danish People's Party. DF stresses that state jobs are financed by funds from taxpayers throughout the country, and it is therefore only reasonable that jobs should not be concentrated in Copenhagen, but should help to achieve a better balance in the supply of jobs throughout Denmark. Public jobs are, of course, attractive to the cities where they are located, as jobs generate tax revenue and a well-trained contribution to the population base. This is also why DF welcomes the government's initiative. The consultation responses received to this bill show great interest in the relocation of DIIS, and the Danish People's Party acknowledges that challenges are to be expected in the relocation process. DF also acknowledges that for the individual employee it may be an unwelcome knot in privacy to have to move with his workplace to Aarhus. However, rather than focusing on possible difficulties in relocation, we should focus on how relocation can be handled to the minimum possible inconvenience for DIIS and employees. It is in this way that a private company must navigate the real world, and that is how public employees in regions and municipalities must play an active part when circumstances require it. The Danish People's Party has noted that many politicians across and cross parties are often very committed to the issue of the creation of local jobs. The undersigned sees today's debate as a litmus test of where members of parliament are actually standing when it really comes to it, i.e. whether you want to take the necessary responsibility for the joy and benefit of East Jutland, or whether you want to stick to the fact that the metropolitan area is being favoured as it is now. With these words, the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303144446	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303144449	I would like to ask the rapporteur something. Let us say that he was faced with having to refuse to move jobs out and reduce the services of the public institution he is moving out and then to take account of the institution's ability to function most effectively. What would be the heaviest thing? We heard that Conservative Rasmus Jarlov said earlier in the debate here today that it could cost something. Is that the point? Is it so ideologically important to move jobs because it is not a question of creating new jobs that it can also cost on the quality and efficiency of public institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303144530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303144531	I think I mentioned somewhere in my speech that it will be a challenge, but we believe that it is something that can be overcome in the slightly longer term. It is clear that even the smallest relocation of an office is associated with difficulties at the beginning, but we believe that in the longer term it will be possible to overcome those problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303144550	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303144551	I'm not really talking about transitional problems with moving. Of course it takes time to move and find your new office and things like that. I am thinking of the operation itself, the very thing that the institution must provide to society. I understand that the rapporteur is in favour of both good and cheap when the public is doing something. If it gets worse and more expensive, but after all it gets transferred to the province, is it an end in itself to do so, and then you have to pay that price? I mean, in this case, it is quite obvious that it is becoming worse and more expensive. Yet you want to move it to another big city.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303144633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303144634	I simply do not agree that it is becoming less and more expensive with certainty. The Danish People's Party doesn't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303144641	Thank you. There will then be no further brief comments, so we will thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's report to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303144655	Thank you. It is the Left's ambition that state jobs should be better distributed across the country and be closer to the citizens and not just to the citizens of Copenhagen. Therefore, in the years to come, approx. 3,900 jobs from the metropolitan area to the rest of the country. It is the largest total relocation of state jobs ever, and as part of the project it is proposed that DIIS be moved from Copenhagen to Aarhus. The Left went to the elections to carry out the relocation of state jobs, and so it is also with pride in the vote that I note that the project is in good shape. There has of course been much talk of the relocation of state jobs over the years, and previous governments have also tried to do so with varying degrees of success, but never as ambitious as what is happening now. The relocation of DIIS is an important part of the Left's project to create a Denmark that is in better balance. By moving DIIS to Aarhus, there is a significant strengthening of the research environment in Aarhus, partly because there are a number of new jobs coming to Aarhus, partly because the biggest research talents from Aarhus University now have the opportunity to stay in the area instead of being forced to go to Copenhagen to pursue a research career. Of course, it is no secret that the relocation of state jobs has stirred our minds up, as we have already heard in the debate, but the criticism of the relocation of DIIS is not as widespread as one might think in this debate. The fact is that it is to a large extent only a criticism made in the columns of the Djøf Magazine and among opinion-formers who either live or have their passage on or around Slotsholmen. In the rest of Denmark, the relocation of state jobs is seen as a good idea, not only because new jobs are nice, but also because it is known that, for example, Aarhus can easily carry out the task of being home to DIIS. In a very loud criticism from DIIS, it has been said that the relocation will lead to a loss of knowledge and that the logistical challenges will be impossible to overcome. To the extent that it is necessary to meet politicians and diplomats in Copenhagen, it is possible both to take the train and to fly to Copenhagen. In addition, there are very few challenges that cannot be solved using today's IT solutions, for example: via Skype. And so it should not be forgotten that it is possible to run Denmark's main export companies, among other things. Grundfos, Danfoss and LEGO outside Copenhagen. So why should it be completely impossible to conduct research and security policy in Denmark's second largest city? After all, the above examples show that there are very much wise heads present, and that is surely not to be noticed wise heads that have been deported to Bjerringbro, Nordborg or Billund. So, unfortunately, this is an enormous arrogance when you hear that important knowledge should be lost if an institution is moved outside the capital. I know that maybe it's surprising to some people that there were also sharp heads in Jutland. I guess it's not entirely unthinkable. So instead of the very extensive protest from some about the relocation, it would be preferable to see the relocation of DIIS as a welcome opportunity for DIIS to distance itself from the other research institutions in the field of foreign policy, for example. University of Copenhagen and Royal Danish Defence College. In a number of countries, the most prestigious universities and research institutions are outside the capital. I have already mentioned some of the examples, and we can also mention Oxford and Cambridge. In both universities, foreign policy research is being carried out, and it may be said that it does not seem to be a barrier to the level of research, either there or in the other examples I have mentioned, that they are outside the capital. So if some of the world's very best research institutions have worked brilliantly for many, many years and have been outside the capitals, it is strange that some think that moving DIIS out of Copenhagen and to Denmark's second largest city would suddenly be hit by a large loss of knowledge. So in those words, the Left looks forward to the relocation of DIIS and we will be positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303145143	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303145147	Thank you very much. After all, the rapporteur from the Left would like to make this a question of Copenhagen, i.e. whether you believe that Aarhus' research environment will be able to carry out this task. That's not the question for me at all. Of course Aarhus will be able to. Aarhus already has some of the world's best heads, both in this area and many others. But that is not the relevant question either. The relevant question is why, with all the financial, professional and human costs that it always has when moving an institution, you should move a well-functioning research institution from Copenhagen to Aarhus. I think it is almost an insult to Aarhus that the government apparently regards the country's second largest city as an outskirt. It is one of the most efficient growth centres in the country. After all, they have well-functioning research centres which they operate at national level: DMU, to take just one example, and several of the central research centres of agriculture. I would not dream of saying: let us move it somewhere else in the country where there is already growth, by the way. So why on earth move DIIS?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303145255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303145256	Well, I'm glad that Aarhus is allowed to have agricultural knowledge jobs, but apparently you have to keep everything else in Copenhagen. Let us take Bergen as an example. There is an institute, a research institution that works primarily on poverty reduction, human rights, conflict resolution, etc. They hold over 100 events, and there are just about 70 people working at the Institute. They publish a wide range of books, reports, articles, etc. Here we are talking about Bergen, who is located in a car if you drive at least a mile away from Oslo. And that can easily be done. No one is talking about knowledge jobs that are now completely lost and that it is not possible at all because there must be contact with embassies etc. etc. I stand absolutely firm on what I have said all along, namely that I see no factual argument at all that it is not possible to move a research institution from one city to another where they already have a high level. The reason why this is a huge advantage I also mentioned in my speech is, among other things, that these people should not go to Copenhagen if they want to work in this field, as they are forced to do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303145407	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303145409	In all due respect, I do not think the rapporteur fully answers my question. I have not doubted that a research institution could be set up in Aarhus. Besides, DMU is responsible for Danish Environmental Surveys, so it has little to do with agriculture, but there are also several other examples of nationwide research institutions located in Aarhus, of course. What is the question is: why should one destroy a well-functioning existing research environment that has been built up over many, many years, and move it just to move it? Aarhus is by no means an outskirts area, and I don't understand that kind of strange thinking that now we're moving it, because it's just good to move it. I understand that with the constituency that the rapporteur has, it may be tempting, but from such a general professional point of view I do not quite understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303145451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303145453	Well, I have answered the question, but I would like to clarify and hope that my radical colleague will listen. One is that if you want to work in research in the field of foreign policy or security policy, etc., when you have graduated from Aalborg University, from Aarhus University or from University of Southern Denmark, it will be a huge advantage that there will also be some jobs for it, instead of it being like today, where you are increasingly forced to go to Copenhagen to work in this field. In addition, it will also strengthen Aarhus University, it will strengthen the entire research environment. And we are serious when we say that there must be better balance, including in the research environment. That's why it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303145530	Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303145532	Yeah, but the government says so much. They also say that public institutions must be run best and cheapest. This is a big experiment that you don't know the result of afterwards. We have just talked about the Danish Labour Damage Board, which is now at great risk of becoming a inferior board with a lower public service and a more expensive public service because of moving it. Now we're going to DIIS. If you move a well-functioning institution from one city to another, even from one city to another city, then in my head there can only be an argument for that, namely that it is close to the rapporteur's constituency. He's so excited, he's glowing at it. It is, then, less than enough to let the public institutions be a cannon feed for the government's politicians' election campaign. I can't do that. The voters can see that through. Unemployed unskilled workers from my trade union must be available and travel many, many hours to all sorts of strange places. Wasn't it a better idea to create some new jobs instead of moving around the ones we have?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303145640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303145641	After all, I heard that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur suddenly tried to involve me in his comments to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. In addition to calling Randers the fifth largest city, it is now unfortunately only the sixth largest city he is wrong in all other areas. To say that this should have any connection with where I am running or not is so absurd and at such a low level that even I am surprised that Enhedslisten will go down to that level at all. Let's stick to the facts. The fact is that Aarhus is Denmark's second largest city. The fact is that Aarhus has a research environment at a really, really high level already today. So if we want to make a Denmark in a better balance in relation to security policy and foreign policy research, then it is Aarhus who is self-written for it and not Randers. Even a Randrusian must admit that. That is why I support it wholeheartedly and say that I think this is the way forward. It may well be that Enhedslisten does not care if there should be balance in the country and that everyone should just go to Copenhagen if they are to work in this field. I just disagree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303145747	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303145748	We don't care if there's a balance in the country. However, we would rather create new jobs than move around public institutions to cover up the fact that new jobs cannot be created to the extent necessary in our society. We would also like to take it seriously that we should not make it worse and more expensive to run a public institution by having some ideological objective of moving around in some jobs. There has to be common sense in it. It must be the case that it is beneficial for the institution concerned to move it, and it must be the case that it fits sensibly into the area to which it comes, without doing any more damage where it comes from. It's something that goes without saying. Furthermore, it was the rapporteur himself who started talking to the Socialist rapporteur about constituencies and what that meant for the constituencies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303145832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303145833	In fact, I did not say anything about that, but the rapporteur can go back and listen to me if I did. There is talk of lower and more expensive. Why should it be worse and more expensive? That is not going to be true just because the Enhedslisten's rapporteur says so. As far as only local costs are concerned, I think one can at least say that the rental costs in Aarhus and especially in Højbjerg, which I understand is in focus as possible location, are something cheaper a place to stay for rent than it is at the current location of DIIS. So no, it doesn't get any worse and more expensive. On the contrary, it is getting better and cheaper and that is why we are in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303145907	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303145911	Thank you. In the rapporteur's recommendation of this bill, I actually just lack an argument about what it does for DIIS. I have heard what it does for researchers in Jutland, and yes, there are fantastic research institutions in Jutland that work very well, and it would be disastrous if, for example, it were to be a disaster. The one I worked on in Kolding was closed and moved to Copenhagen. But what is it doing for the institution? That must be the important thing to look at. We have a very well-functioning institution, what does it do about it? What value do we give to that institution by moving it? Why is it that it is so amazing that it should be in Aarhus? And it is not because of what is good for Aarhus or for researchers in the area. No, what good does a move for the institution and the research being carried out?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303145958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303150000	When the Left went to the polls to say that now we wanted there to be better balance in Denmark compared to these different areas, we went in and looked at what could be done to relocate and where it made sense. That is to say, how simply it was possible to move these places where it did not go beyond the professional level where it did not become more expensive etc.? And there it is that in relation to DIIS it will be just as good, if not better, to move it to Aarhus. And what do I mean by that? I mean it in relation to Aarhus University's research area in relation to foreign policy and political science etc. is at European level • European level. And there it isn't so stupid as to say it plainly if you go in and say that now we have a great collaboration with Aarhus University, and then this will be a really, really good advantage. Who gets the most advantage from it? It does this because we will have a better balance, so that everything is not centralised around Copenhagen. It has been the main focus, while at the same time we can also say that DIIS can be well-functioning in Denmark's second largest city; one of the largest university cities in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303150101	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303150103	But functioning is one thing. I don't think working is good enough for a research institution to do research on these things. Actually, I think it should be amazing. So can the rapporteur confirm that he really believes that it will be better research that we get from DIIS by that they are located in Aarhus than in the current location?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303150124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303150126	I have to get used to the fact that the alternative has arrived in the Folketing, and I also have to weigh my words a little better, so let me rephrase what I said just now. Instead of working well, I agree that it must be extremely well functioning. And I think it will continue to move DIIS to Aarhus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303150141	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303150144	Of course, you can conduct research in Aarhus. I've read over there myself, and there are excellent people over there. But this isn't just about research. It is also about a discussion and an environment created here in Copenhagen. I don't know if sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen has ever attended some of the DIIS's events, and if he hasn't, I can recommend it. He can learn a lot more from it. Yes, yes, we can all enjoy it very, very much. If you come out to their events, you can see that there is a very vivid foreign policy debate environment out there. There are people from embassies who are correspondents from the international press and there are different actors from other research environments and students. In other words, there is an environment that gives foreign policy a boost here in Denmark. I think we need that. That's why it's really hasty to want to destroy the debate environment by moving it to Aarhus. Can it be rebuilt? It may, but it will not be at all at the same level as is currently the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303150258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303150300	Just to start somewhere, I mentioned earlier that it works quite normally in Norway that you have this great foreign policy institution in Bergen, and they also hold events in Bergen, without anyone suddenly saying that it is not possible just because it is not in the capital. You could also turn it around and say that nobody says that because we are moving DIIS, you cannot hold events in Copenhagen. Of course you can, if you want, just as well as you can hold events in Herning or in Aalborg or in Paris, or where they want to hold their events. However, the location of their research center will be in Aarhus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303150341	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303150343	At the moment, you can also hold events in Aarhus, Herning and Randers if you want to. But what this is all about is that, for many years of hard work and effort, a foreign policy debate environment has actually been built in this country, as I think Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen should try to get a little more pleasure from than he seems to have got. Because these are actually fantastic events they have out there, and often people come from outside, who are in the middle of Copenhagen, and who can then get to give a presentation. As I said, there are people from the embassies, so at DIIS there is an opportunity to have a discussion between different stakeholders that you cannot get in the same way in Aarhus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303150423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303150425	Well, I can hear that the rapporteur really wants me to take part in events in DIIS, and I am also taking part in as many different kinds of events in this area as I can possibly take part in at all. I promise. But if the rapporteur is thinking of a special arrangement at the DIIS, which I shall be taking part in, then I am happy to do so. But again I want to say: you can call me anything you want, but I just can't see that anything negative should happen because you move the research effort itself, that is, where research is done and focused and they write their reports and articles etc., from Copenhagen to Aarhus. I can't. If you still want to have events in Copenhagen every once in a while, an annual event or something, then you can do it. It will not destroy anything at all as I see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303150506	Sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303150507	Thank you. As I said, I'm trying to get a little more ammo from the government in relation to this relocation. I just don't think I've heard Mr. Simpson. Michael Aastrup Jensen mentions how DIIS' activities and business will be improved by being moved. So I would like him to make a few comments on that, including about it, as Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen sees it, are some drawbacks in making the relocation. Finally, it's interesting to hear about this example from Bergen. The rapporteur also mentioned other examples, but let us just take Bergen. In order for us to use it in a comparison, I would like to know when that institute has moved from Oslo to Bergen and what experience there is from that relocation. Is it because it has moved from Oslo to Bergen that there has been an amazing environment? Or how is that connected? Are there any considerations about moving it from Bergen to Oslo? It's more so that we can use it in a comparison at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303150612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303150613	I hope, then, that the Socialist rapporteur will listen to the Social Democratic Mayor of Aarhus, who has clearly said yesterday, to various media, that he does not understand that his own parliamentary group should mind moving something to Aarhus. This, and it has also been said as an answer to the rapporteur's question, is not, of course, about the fact that it should be more fantastic for DIIS to move to Aarhus. If it can be kept at the same professional level as we clearly say it can, then it will also be a gain in getting a better balance in Denmark that we move an institution from Copenhagen to Aarhus. So that's, very popped said, a win-win situation: You keep the same professionally high level, and you will also help to create a better balance in this country. I can't understand at all that the Social Democratic Party doesn't want to listen to me, and it's fair enough that it doesn't listen to its own local forces in Aarhus, which has clearly documented the great and strong benefits of being in Aarhus. I have mentioned one of them myself, namely that it will be significantly cheaper to live for rent. In addition, there is the research policy that I have already mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303150722	Sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303150724	Of course Aarhus will. I don't think anyone in Aarhus wants more jobs for Aarhus. That's the way it is all over the country. That is also why there is a desire to try to achieve a better distribution of state jobs. But that is why things still have to be professionally and factually linked. I hope that the rapporteur does not think that we should support indiscriminate relocations. I still feel that I still need to hear what the advantage of moving DIIS is from a technical point of view, and I have not heard anything about whether the rapporteur can see any drawbacks at all. And then we didn't get any explanation at all about Bergen, which is mentioned as the very big example.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303150806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303150807	It is very important to make it clear that in a few seconds I will have to deal with it, but if I can have an extension of my speaking time, it will of course help a little. On Bergen, I would like to say that it is used as a concrete example, like all the other examples, of the fact that there are research institutions which can easily function outside a capital. In fact, I think that is quite a good argument for those who say that they cannot be moved out of the capital at all, because then you lose contact with embassies, airports and everything else. In other European countries this can easily be done. That's what this is all about. This is about: Can you maintain the same high level of DIIS research, their contacts, etc. even if they move to Aarhus. Yes, you can. In addition, it also creates an advantage for Vestdanmark as a whole, because you will get a better balance, and it is also for the researchers and all sorts of others. When they're graduate, they don't have to go to Copenhagen. It may well be that I am not saying it clearly enough, but for me it is a great advantage, not least if you mean something serious with a Denmark in better balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303150903	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is now Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303150913	I was born near Haderslev and live in Silkeborg, and I have not studied at any of the institutions mentioned, nor any of the universities mentioned. I have often sat on the listeners' benches when DIIS has made an exciting event about this or that, and I have always become wiser to attend. Someone asked me, Christian, do you have to start today? No, I'm not, I'm gonna get smarter. Well, they say so, it was strange, because we rarely see members of parliament coming just to listen. Then I say that I actually think that DIIS's events have such good quality that you can learn more from it. One time I was invited to debate a question. I think it is a good institution which plays an important role in our debate on foreign policy, the Arctic, Greenland, the Faroe Islands, defence, disarmament, development aid and a whole host of other areas. Therefore, it is also interesting for a lot of people to have them very close to them, and therefore the discussion is also good to have. I do not think that the debate is driven by a desire to make the most of DIIS; I think that, as I said earlier in the debate here, it is far below the low level when we hear someone talking about it now being best located in their area. That is exactly the opposite of our debates on nuclear power, where no one would have those jobs. DIIS was created 14-15 years ago when some institutions that had worked independently were merged, and I think that DIIS has managed to overcome the problems that were then and actually come into a good condition. That is also what the Foreign Ministers who have written to us say, and I think it is rather striking when the rapporteur of the Left so happyly argues that it is no problem to move such jobs. Then his party buddies, sir. Henning Christophersen and Mr. Uffe Ellemann-Jensen is on the wrong track. And when the Social Democrats' rapporteur doubts a little, he can listen a little when Mr. Mogens Lykketoft speaks. I do a great deal of that myself, and I think that would be a very, very good idea for the Socialists to do that in this situation. We need DIIS. I think they are working well in this town, and I also think it seems that the Aarhusns would like to come here to be with either as employees or as those who listen to the wise words when there is a debate in DIIS. That doesn't seem to be a problem. Nor should we make it a problem that a workplace is located in Copenhagen. Some jobs lie sensibly in Copenhagen, because it is the capital, where parliament and a whole lot of other institutions lie, and it is natural that some associated institutions lie there. Sometimes it is quite natural that jobs are elsewhere. It is natural that there are some environmental jobs and research institutions around the environment and watercourses in Silkeborg, for example. I would find it strange if they were to be in Copenhagen, as there would be no natural explanation for that. There are a lot of good institutions in Aarhus that could be moved elsewhere. I bet some of the departments in Aarhus could be in Randers or Silkeborg or Esbjerg, or where the hell they could be. But why should we do so if they are driven well in Aarhus and have a natural location in the environment that is in Aarhus? I think there has been inflation in this and I would ask that we ask whether there is common sense in it, whether it is wise to do so. And if it isn't, let's admit that Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen does not achieve his ideological goal of relocations, and then he must take what is common sense into account. And then he has to try to do what is the only sensible thing, namely to create new jobs. Because when we get into a fight like we do about this, it is primarily because there are too few jobs for those who want either a research site or a regular manual workplace. That is the problem! We have far too many people who do not have a job. The Danes want to move after them. So I think that instead of fighting, we should use the rational rationale that it would have been very good for the government to have used to distribute these jobs and to think about how we can balance the country. And then I would like to say that we need a place of work, and that is in relation to the fact that we must have created the opportunity to have another institute for peace and conflict research at one or more of the country's universities. I have called for this several times, but I have received active opposition from the current government, and I would like to mention it again. For my sake it must lie in Aarhus, it would be quite natural, as long as we get it, so that we can once again be on the same level as other large countries and large cities. The unit list cannot support the relocation of DIIS.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303151420	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303151423	Does it not make any impression on the Enhedslisten when I mention six European cities, all of which have foreign policy institutions and all of which seem to be completely functioning? Doesn't it make an impression on Enhedslisten if you also agree, as I thought on the Enhedslisten side, that not everything needs to be centralized in Copenhagen, but that we need to go in with common sense to see if we can achieve a better balance in this country? Because right now there is no proper balance in the country. Doesn't that make an impression?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303151451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303151452	I've visited five of the six cities. I haven't been to all the universities, and I don't know how they work. But I know that a lot can work in many places. Some of the universities have been there for centuries, and it would be foolish to move them. Aarhus University has been in that city for many years, as far as I am aware. I think there should be common sense in it when we place things around. For example: We lost in Silkeborg police station. This has caused us some incredibly great problems, and if Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen was unpopular because of that decision, I understand. That's the way it is with some things. I mean, when you move something from one city to another, they get sad about it in the city that's moved from, maybe even very sad about it. You shouldn't be happy and gloating about that if you can't create something else instead for those people who don't want to move to Aarhus or Randers or Esbjerg or where it is now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303151554	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303151556	Well, now I don't understand. Because what the rapporteur says is that in the city from which you move something, they are saddened. Yes, yes, but I thought it was the national parliament we were sitting in, and not some old county council for Copenhagen and surroundings. This is the national parliament, and we must look with national glasses at what it is that will benefit the country. Does the Enhedslisten not agree that it will benefit the country if there is a better balance in relation to the research environment? That is what the question is, and that is what Enhedslisten's rapporteur dances around and dares not give a clear answer to. Of course, the answer is yes. And then you have to do it too, so you have to stand by the decisions, even if it hurts some of those who use DIIS today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303151636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303151637	Well, it's not easy when Mr. Cole... Michael Aastrup Jensen overhears what I'm saying. We must strike a better balance if it costs no more than we benefit from. If we do more harm than good, we should not do it. Then we have to wait until we have the good idea. The present government does not have the good idea in all areas, which means that they are making a mess of it in some areas and doing something good in some other areas. Therefore, we allow ourselves to be nuanced and say: that is a good idea, that is a bad idea. Relocating DIIS is a bad idea where you make a mess of it and don't make any good for the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303151710	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. That is the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mrs Mette Bock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303151720	Thank you. I understand that it has become customary here today to tell something about your own background, that is, where you were born and raised and lived your life. And I was raised in Jutland, I was elected in Jutland, I was educated at Aarhus University, I have been an external lecturer and censor there for many years, and I have even been in the management of the university for a period of time. Aarhus University is an excellent university, and there is no doubt that Aarhus would accept DIIS in an excellent way. I don't doubt that for a second. In the Liberal Alliance, we are also very positive about the relocation plans put forward by the government. It is a really good thing that we will achieve a better balance between the different parts of Denmark. Nevertheless, the Liberal Alliance does not support the proposal to relocate DIIS for two reasons. After all, there is a reason why we have the proposal for DIIS here in the Parliamentary Chamber, and it is that DIIS actually has its own law in contrast to all the other relocations where it can be done without things going to the Chamber. DIIS has its own law, and from that law it appears that the home is Copenhagen. In addition, it actually states that DIIS has its own independent board of directors. And if there is something that contributes to the fact that there are a lot of people in Denmark who are extremely tired of many of the decisions that are made in here at Christiansborg, it is, among other things, that every time we say that now we create an independent independent organisation that has its own independent board of directors, we come and interfere. The DIIS Act states that the Board of Directors has the overall management, which defines the overall academic objectives and strategies of the Institute's activities and development, including research programme, and which decides on all important issues relating to the Foundation's finances and management. There is nothing more annoying than sitting on a board of directors. I have tried it myself at the University of Southern Denmark, where you are told that you are now entering an independent board of directors, and then they come constantly from the parliament and start interfering in the cases. It's just a bad thing. And that is why it is also a bad thing when there is now an institution which has its own law, which has its own independent board, that we just come over and decide that now we will move it. In addition, I have not seen a single positive hearing on relocation here. However, we should not be arguing against this. My feeling is that it doesn't sound very nice when you say it loudly that you have been told in all ministries: you have to bring something, you have to deliver something that we can move out. So the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not have much to offer, which is why DIIS has been said.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303152009	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur from the alternative, and that is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303152023	Thank you and thank you to the previous rapporteur, Mrs Mette Bock. It is just now that you do not have to say anything more on top of that speech. After all, however, I also have a few arguments on the part of the Alternative for us to take our stand on this matter as we do. Of course, we believe that it is absolutely crucial that we work to strengthen cohesion in Denmark and, of course, we also want to ensure good opportunities to live and work throughout the country. Therefore, we are not on principle against moving jobs, it may be very good, but we do not believe that the relocation of DIIS to Aarhus, the second largest city in Denmark, will create greater cohesion in our country. For us, the relocation of state jobs must of course make sense, and that is why we need to look at what role DIIS plays in our society and where and how the institution can best fulfil that purpose. DIIS is an essential lever for an enlightened debate and a crucial player when we need quality assurance of policy, and at the same time it is also a central hub for international diplomats and researchers from all over the world. DIIS serves as a place of communication between embassies, politicians, officials, media and researchers, and there is a need for the unique combination of research, dissemination and policy to be located in Copenhagen, because it is precisely the location in Copenhagen that makes it possible. Overall, Danish society gets the most out of DIIS if the institution is located here, precisely because the key players around and the users of DIIS are located in Copenhagen. As DIIS himself writes in their hearing answer, the relocation does not match the government's desire to bring state institutions closer to users, and therefore I am actually surprised that the government has chosen to point out precisely the DIIS. If DIIS is relocated, it will make day-to-day contact with politicians, officials, collaborators and international guests more difficult and make it logistically complicated. In addition, there is an important economic aspect. DIIS itself estimates that it will cost up to 34 million. kr. simply moving the institution to Aarhus, and if DIIS is to maintain its current function and role, it will mean additional costs for transport, lodging, etc. Moreover, it is unclear whether it will be possible to move the current employees and how quickly it will be possible to recruit new employees for DIIS. We do not want such a situation, and by its very nature there is not an unlimited number of talented researchers in this area, so it takes time to recruit new people. I therefore believe that DIIS should remain in Copenhagen. Here, the institution works best, and the users who are the buyers of DIIS' research and expertise get the most out of it. I am concerned that DIIS will have the best working conditions, just as I am concerned that the fruits of the DIIS researchers' work will be passed on to its users in the best and fastest possible way possible. We do not think it is a good idea to relocate state jobs when it is not based on rational arguments and therefore we cannot vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303152338	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is with the radical rapporteur, Mr President. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303152354	Thank you very much, President. From a radical point of view, we have sent many sympathetic thoughts towards the entire government's project of relocating jobs. Perhaps we are a little sceptical about the speed that has been experienced, as we think it is both expensive and involves some human costs, just as we will not fail to point out that while the government is busy with one hand sending jobs to other parts of Denmark, so with the other hand you cut down even more on youth education and other important life-nerves in rural areas. But leave it alone. This is not the idea of trying to spread state jobs with which we have any problems at all. But there are three reasons why we are going to vote against this particular proposal on DIIS. The first reason is professional. Because we simply cannot see what the professional reason for moving DIIS is. Aarhus is not an outskirts area, so for us it is not a reason in itself. There is a well-functioning professional environment. And as I said in my question to the rapporteur of the Left, this is not at all a discussion about the issue of which several rapporteurs and most clearly Mrs Mette Bock have pointed out whether a well-functioning research centre can be set up in Aarhus. Of course, there are many well-functioning centres, including national centres, in Aarhus. This is not the main discussion for us at all. For us, that's what you destroy by something that's already there. And there are many things that already work well in connection with DIIS, and it takes time to establish the kind of environments, make them known, also abroad, and create the collaborations you already have with people living in Denmark, people living abroad, and other research environments. When you pull it up with a mess and shake it, it has a professional cost. And if there's no reason to do that, we can't see the point of it. The second reason is legal. That is what the Liberal Alliance also said. We, a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, have thus made a construction with a really well-advised mind, which is about that when you have to have a powerful research institution, it must be its own as the cat on the road. It must be given the opportunity to give priority to itself, in order to determine for itself both the professional content and the practice and execution of the research. And the fact that you saw that because you got a nice idea some night at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or where it might be suddenly compromises with the principle of freedom or the principle of income tax, we also think that is wrong. Finally, the third reason is that we find it difficult, economically speaking, to see what savings can be made on this. On the contrary, it has a cost to move, just as it must be assumed that operations will become more expensive in order to have increased transport costs. So both professionally, legally and economically we find it difficult to see the reasoning here, and for us it is not a discussion about Copenhagen versus Aarhus. Nah, it's a completely quiet argument about that we have a really well-functioning professional environment that all of Denmark enjoys. So why in the world do not respect it, and why not rejoice in it instead of destroying it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303152721	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303152725	Thank you. It is absolutely right that action-oriented politicians are required if we want to put an end to the centralisation which exists in some areas and which is, of course, in the field of foreign and security research. There is a centralisation today, and I think the rapporteur will agree with that, if you want to do away with it and say that in Denmark we also need to think about a better balance in that area, then it requires action. This requires saying what the rapporteur also mentioned, that the high research environment makes it possible for us to move it to Aarhus. But then the rapporteur also says that there are negative things in relation to the fact that it is far away and that you want to destroy something and so on. As I mentioned earlier, and as the rapporteur hopefully agrees, events can still be held back in Copenhagen if you need them. And then the question is: will it be completely unthinkable that you will be able to go to Aarhus for some of these events if they are exciting enough? This can be done in the other European cities I have mentioned as an example. There you can find a way to go out of the capital and to this place and hold events. Does the rapporteur not see that it is possible to leave Copenhagen to take part in an event?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303152830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303152831	Absolutely, I can easily see it for the simple reason that it is already happening. Aarhus hosts many beautiful international conferences that resonate across Europe. I have not sat down with a bullet frame and figured out how many research sites there are in one place or another, but it will be true that there are more in Copenhagen. But it's not the same as that there isn't already a large, well-functioning research environment in Aarhus in this field too, not least in political science, and I think that Michael Aastrup Jensen is underestimating Aarhus University a little. So I find it hard to see the crisis in Aarhus. I think Aarhus is doing excellent work, and I have great respect for the work that is happening in Aarhus. But I just don't see why it basically wants to destroy another well-functioning research environment in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303152921	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303152923	The point is that I do not see how to destroy anything by moving it to the well-functioning research environment in Aarhus, as Radical Left itself agrees that there is. And you can find out how to go to Aarhus to participate in events. Well, what's going to be destroyed? The answer is nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303152940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303152941	No, but I am trying to get back to what I have still not quite received an answer to, although I recognise that the rapporteur of the Left was trying to answer, namely the elementary question of: why? The entire relocation plan is generally about strengthening Udkantsdanmark, i.e. the non-large cities, and for me Aarhus is not Udkantsdanmark, and for me, the need to ensure that Denmark does not break in the middle is that the areas of Denmark are either in Jutland or on Zealand or on Funen • where there is a shortage of jobs and not growth, we need to strengthen. But it's not Aarhus. Fortunately, Aarhus is a well-functioning growth centre in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303153022	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur from the SF, and that is Mr SF. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303153040	The debate on the relocation of state jobs is certainly relevant, but this makes no sense, to put it bluntly. It makes no sense to move DIIS from Copenhagen to Aarhus. There have been a number of arguments in the past in the debate, which I shall not repeat. Aarhus is not an outskirts area, and the whole problem here is whether you want a strong foreign policy research and discussion environment in this country. We don't have too much of that. Compared to other countries, we're actually not very good at this in Denmark. The debate on foreign policy is rarely highly qualified. There are often many superficial arguments, and that is why we so much need a place where we can go into depth with some areas where we can contribute qualified arguments, also in relation to the members of the Folketing, I would say to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen. That is why it is a very good idea to set aside one morning one day. You can settle for one morning when you are in here to go to DIIS, where there are often events that last such 2-3 hours with some presentations and debate. You can talk to some of those who are also interested in the subject in question from embassies, international media, students and researchers, and then you go back home. In other words, a unique environment has simply been created around DIIS, which, as I said, several members of parliament should take advantage of. The Foreign Minister should also go there sometimes to get smarter out there. You can certainly be, even as a minister. When I listen to the arguments, there are no arguments for the positive thing about moving this. Well, there are a lot of arguments that it doesn't do any harm, and that you can build it up in Aarhus as well. And of course you can. But why should we run the risk of undermining, destroying what has been built up over several years in DIIS, which is of fantastic value, for the sake of some, I would say ideological agenda that the government has got, where some of it can be sensible enough and other parts are less sensible? This is definitely part of the less reasonable part of it. As I said, I fully agree that research can be carried out in Aarhus, including in Esbjerg and Odense. It is not limited to specific geographical areas, but, as I said, this is not just about research. It is also about the synergy between different research institutions, in this case also in relation to the Danish Institute for Military Studies, which is also an important partner in relation to DIIS, and in relation to the other research environments located in Copenhagen. Should it also be moved to Aarhus if so, or what? I understand the need to show that things will also be moved to Jutland, and as I said, there can also be sense in it. But on this point, I would ask Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen admits that this is not a very good idea. Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen must acknowledge that the positive, constructive arguments put forward are extremely weak and in fact that nothing is done about it, that it has been seen elsewhere that it is possible to do so. Yes, sir. But the point here is that we have a well-functioning environment in Copenhagen in an area where we are not getting used to well-functioning environments in this country. You really risk ruining that through this. We're not involved in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303153509	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Sorry, there was a brief comment anyway. May I ask Holger K. Nielsen to stand up again. There was just a request for a brief comment at the last minute from Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303153530	I'm sorry. I hadn't pressed the button hard enough, but now I've pressed harder. The current SF group chairman, Mr. Jonas Dahl, said before the elections: unfortunately, the problem is that too many members of parliament make fine statements in the election campaign about the relocation of state jobs, and another thing is to put them into practice. He pointed out that it takes courage to stand up to the party and demand relocations from Copenhagen, because the big test is whether you dare to put action behind words. Isn't that exactly what we're seeing now? So it starts to hurt just a little bit among those who seem to be at the various morning events in DIIS, and who seem to think that taking a train for just over 2 hours to work is a big problem. Isn't that what this is about? If we really want to stop everything from being in Copenhagen, and if we really want to recognise that there is
ParlaMint-DK_20160303153640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303153642	No, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen was supposed to relax a bit and not get so squeaky in his voice about this. Sir. Jonas Dahl fully agrees with what I said here. He's against this, too. It is true that in all parties we have discussions about this relocation, because there are strong local interests involved. We know that there is, and so it must be. But with us, there's no doubt at all that this is just a bad idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303153717	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303153719	I'll try to relax. This isn't the first time, sir. Holger K. Nielsen has told me, and it won't be the last time either. However, I do not want to relax when it comes to the argument. For I have still not seen a single professional argument that DIIS could not just as well lie in Aarhus in a completely sound way, as the numerous other European examples show. Therefore, I do not want to relax when it comes to this, because if we really want a Denmark in balance, we should also decide to move out where it is reasonable and common sense to do so, and that is what this is all about, for example. to relocate DIIS.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303153756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303153757	Yes, but first of all, I think you should find the professional arguments to move but, in addition, there are plenty of arguments in the hearings. So, try to read the consultation answers that have come from all sorts of stakeholders, all kinds of people who know about these things. There are none of the consultation responses • none
ParlaMint-DK_20160303153826	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. I see no rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party, so we have finished the rapporteur's series and I give the floor to the Foreign Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303153845	Thank you. Thank you for the many posts that have been and the many comments that have been made. There may be a few things that need to be put in place. First of all, I would like to quote from the publication published by the government on 1 October 2015 on the relocation of state jobs, where we write on the first page: "State jobs must be distributed throughout the country and closer to citizens. The government therefore moves an historically large number of state jobs from the capital to the four other regions of the country. The state institutions are set in the world to solve tasks for the benefit of citizens and companies throughout Denmark. The jobs of the state must therefore also be distributed throughout the country. ▪ A number of the rapporteurs have had the approach that the relocation of state jobs should be almost alone something that took place in rural areas. And it is also true that we have moved state jobs to Lemvig, Ribe and Nykøbing Falster; we have also moved them to medium-sized cities such as Sønderborg, Viborg and Næstved, and we have moved them to university cities such as Aarhus, Aalborg and Odense. We have done so on the basis of a view that state jobs must be distributed in the country, because we believe that state jobs must also help to support local, regional and national environments that are scattered throughout Denmark. As several speakers have said, there are actually quite excellent national research competences in Aarhus, and I also believe that it is possible to find a clear link between Aarhus University and international research. It is the case that Francis Fukuyama visited Aarhus University for the first time in 2007 when he was the keynote speaker at the university's first major MatchPoints conference. Fukuyama was so excited about the conference and for Aarhus that he returned to the university as a visiting professor from 2009-2012, and in 2009, 2010 and 2011 he again gave the keynote speech at the MatchPoints conference, of which I had the pleasure of attending one of them. It has developed into an annual event involving hundreds of professionals, experts and researchers from Denmark and abroad. Last year, the MatchPoints conference in Aarhus, in which I myself participated, focused on the Arctic, with the participation of a large number of researchers, politicians, opinion-formers and media professionals from Denmark and abroad. If anyone should wonder who Francis Fukuyama or just Frank, as they now call him in Aarhus, is, I can tell you that he is American professor and one of the world's leading foreign policy researchers. Fukuyama deals in his research with topics such as democracy, state formation, political theory and security policy. When I draw Francis Fukuyama forward, I do so because the debate here has left the impression that it is not possible to conduct good development policy, good foreign policy research or dissemination outside Copenhagen. I do not only disagree vertically with that view, I believe that Aarhus University has already proved that it is possible to do so. When, at the same time, we have a desire that state jobs should be located throughout the country and that the relocation of DIIS to Aarhus can help strengthen the emerging foreign policy research environment that already exists, then I think there is good sense in the government's proposal to move DIIS to Aarhus. DIIS does not move to Aarhus in such a vacuum, where there is no research in the past, but will be part of a well-founded, strong and active academic environment.In addition to Fukuyama, it attracts a large number of other recognised Danish and international researchers. In January, researchers from e.g. DIIS in a seminar on radicalisation and counter-terrorism at Aarhus University, and later this year Aarhus will host a major international food conference, which among other things. focuses on food safety. I am convinced that the location in Aarhus and the city's research network and many professional activities will greatly support DIIS' work, just as DIIS will be a strong contribution to the research environment outside Copenhagen. Like Mrs Mette Bock, I am not going to go into such a whole life story about where I was elected, raised and studied. I feel like sir. Christian Juhl, that I have not gone to any of these studies. I would just like to say that the location is not organized according to my constituency, nor according to the constituency of the Left's foreign policy rapporteur. It is designed according to where we can support an existing, emerging political and research level and environment, and so there is in Aarhus. Secondly, a large part of DIIS' research and analysis work is completely independent of their geographical location in Aarhus. DIIS is a very active and productive research institution whose employees, like other researchers, convey their work through a sea of channels • books, articles, reports, blog posts, guest lectures etc. etc. This can happen from Aarhus as well as from Copenhagen, and I therefore believe that the scare picture that DIIS' research and expertise will lose its relevance and benefit fewer people and that it will go beyond the Institute's international reputation is greatly exaggerated. DIIS conducts good and relevant research and is demanded by many, and I have no reason to believe that it would change if DIIS changed its home to Aarhus. Thirdly, I am convinced that DIIS, like any other modern research institution or any other modern organization, already maintains contact with their users and business partners through much more than physical meetings, mail, telephone, video conferencing, etc. This is particularly true in the cooperation between DIIS and their many international partners. Nor will that part of DIIS' work change because DIIS moves to Aarhus. There is no doubt that at the very human level it will be a major upheaval for DIIS employees to move DIIS to Aarhus. That is correct, I will not hide that, and I understand that for many of DIIS employees it is a very big change for their living conditions with a transfer of DIIS to Aarhus. If only the criterion were used, any talk about the relocation of state jobs would make no sense, and therefore it is a condition when you want to relocate state jobs that it will also have an impact on employees, their families and their associations. You don't get around that. Nevertheless, I believe that for the reasons I have outlined, DIIS will be able to perform their work to a large extent as well from Aarhus as from Copenhagen. It is clear that during a period of relocation and during a period of construction there will be what can be called a loss of production. But I think it will be offset by the possibility of looking at new forms of cooperation and doing things in a different way than usual. It's not that I don't think DIIS is doing well, but because I think it's good for all of us to change our habits once in a while and look again at whether we should do things differently from the way we usually do them. I would like to make a few comments. I understand that there are a number of questions on the part of the Social Democratic Party that we want answered along the way. Some of them are quite technical and, of course, we would like to answer them during the committee procedure, and some of them are more political in nature, i.e. whether knowledge sharing with other organisations can be ensured. Yeah, I'm sure you can. Is this the start of a change of institution? It's a self-serving institution? No, it's not the beginning of a change in the fact that you're owned. I might remind the Social Democratic Party that the last amendment to the DIIS law was in 2012 under the then new Social Democratic Government, which chose to divide the Danish Centre for International Studies and Human Rights, which was divided into the Institute for Human Rights and DIIS respectively. At the time, it was not seen as a breach of their own right that political decisions were made to separate them, nor is this a sign that we are now going to start a major intervention in what they are going to do or something else. We are very pleased with the work done by DIIS, but we just believe that a similar can be done from Aarhus, and that as a state leadership in the Folketing and in the government we have an obligation to ensure that state jobs are spread throughout the country. In relation to the Enhedslisten's question as to whether we should just have created new jobs, I would point out that during the six months since the change of government, when statistics have been produced, 22,000 new jobs have been created for full-time workers. When you take the figures of Statistics Denmark for how many employees are employed, we have thus had an increase of 22,000. So jobs are created. What we are talking about here is where in the country we choose to place the state jobs there are. I would like to say two things to Mrs Mette Bock. Firstly, we have chosen to move the Danida Fellowship Centre from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so it is not the case that there is some checklist where DIIS is just something we have to check off from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to meet a requirement that everyone should relocate something. We have thus relocated the Danida Fellowship Centre, and we believe that DIIS should be relocated because there are some good opportunities to create a new synergy and a new foreign policy institute and research environment in Aarhus. Another correction is that the law does not determine the seat. But it is the case that we consider that the law says it is a self-serving institution, and then the government can only decide that the home should be Aarhus by making a change to the law on which it is based. I can also say that, after what I have been able to read now, I am the only one who is present in the Chamber today who was also present and participated in the debates during the first, second and third readings when we adopted the law and put together the institutions which, in 2002, became the parent organisation behind DIIS before it was split up in 2012, and... I apologise! Sir. Søren Søndergaard has arrived. It's weird that you can actually miss Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard. Maybe it's because sir. Søren Søndergaard has not been given the floor because I am sure he cannot be overheard. But now there are two of us. Well, then, sir. Søren Søndergaard may be witnessing that there was then a great deal of concern as to whether it would be a good idea to merge the institutions. Sir. Søren Søndergaard's party was the only party that ultimately chose to vote against, whereas Mr. Holger K. Nielsens and Mr. Mogens Jensen's party chose to abstain. I really appreciate the warm flow of joy that is today about the creation of DIIS, the one who delighted that we were some who were forward-looking enough to suggest that it was established. Then I only hope that we will have to get a little credit too, so that we now also propose that it can lie and live somewhere else. This is a question of how we would like to see state jobs across the country. It is a question that we are sure that Aarhus and Aarhus University will be a good and proper home for DIIS, and I am sure that although there will of course be costs for those who will move with it, it will be possible to obtain it from the working environment around DIIS and that DIIS will also be able to meet the high standards and expectations that we have for them. I look forward to the committee reading, I look forward to the questions and, of course, as always, I must show as much ability as possible to answer them thoroughly enough to convince the doubters who may be right in the government's proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303155200	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303155203	Thank you. Now I say this briefly here at the beginning, it can drown in the debate: we do not just want to take the neighbor's piece of cake, we want to expand the cake. We actually want more research, more university activity. There is no point in a government with one hand cutting down on universities and then moving around with the institutions with the other hand. We are not getting any more research on that, nor are we getting any better research. I guess none of us in this hall are in any doubt that you do a good job in Aarhus. There is also no doubt that part of DIIS' good people come from Aarhus and that they actually work with people from Aarhus when they do their research projects, and with Aalborg, Odense, Syddanmark and all sorts of other good places. And I understand from my intellectual friends that it is a condition when you are an academic that you have to put up with travelling around, yes, you actually do it to get challenges and the most exciting jobs. They are taken where they are, and the government is also in the habit of saying that it must also be done by workers and women. What on earth is wrong with having the good institution in Copenhagen and then letting it work with Aarhus? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303155321	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303155324	What on earth is wrong with the opposite? What is wrong with having a good institution in Aarhus and then letting it work with Copenhagen? That's a strange pseudo-argument, as Mr. Christian Juhl is coming with us. The argument on the part of the government, when we talk about the relocation of state jobs, has been that we want the state to be present. That is what I said, for example. Ribe, Lemvig, Viborg, Sønderborg, Næstved, Nykøbing Falster, but also in Odense, Aalborg and Aarhus, because we believe that the state's jobs should be widely represented in the state. And then there are some things that are important to put in a research environment. I am just delighted that Aarhus has a research environment that can receive and help develop DIIS further, and that is why we choose to move.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303155410	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303155411	In other words, the Minister believes that a criticism of DIIS is necessary and that when it is in Copenhagen it is not developing enough. I don't understand. They can just cooperate. In other words, I believe that it is now in Copenhagen, and if you want to be a country in balance, you should not move an institution from a city which is otherwise well-functioning, to another city which is otherwise well-functioning, and both have great capacities in the field of university. That makes no sense other than that it is a principle. And then I'll say to that with a country in balance: Denmark doesn't come into balance anymore, because DIIS is in Aarhus. Nor is it getting any closer to the citizens. Here it is close to 2 million people, in Aarhus it will be close to 750,000 people. That doesn't fit with those arguments.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303155454	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303155455	It's a principle, yes. It is a principle that state jobs should lie throughout the country, that state jobs should be distributed. And there are some jobs that are suitable to be located in cities like Viborg, and there are some jobs that are suitable to lie in cities like Aarhus. I would like to remind you that we have three universities located outside Zealand. Of course, we must also ensure that there are research institutions in those universities to ensure that there are attractive study environments, that there are attractive knowledge environments and to develop what is there. And I am absolutely sure that Aarhus can create some new synergy with DIIS, and therefore it will develop the institution forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303155538	Sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303155539	Thank you. As I have said, and the Minister is right, we have some questions which may be of a more technical nature, and we will of course forward them. However, I would like to address some of the hearings. It is like those we have to start with, because it is the users who are speaking here. I would just like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister agrees that the main users of DIIS are located in the metropolitan area, that these are the ones that you need primarily to hold physical meetings with, make conferences for, etc. Is it also the Minister's assessment, as well as the statement in all the hearings, that they are in fact located in the metropolitan area? I would also like to know whether this is the view of the Minister, as it is being advocated that it will be an additional barrier to making different types of events • of course hold meetings, but also hearings, events etc. When I mention this here, it is because it is some of the things that go back into the consultation answers and which I think require some answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303155659	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303155700	With regard to the consultation answers, it is true that many of those who have given a hearing are negative. I assume that among those who have not given a response to a hearing there must be some who have not given it because it is either an idea they support, or an idea they do not have as strong views on, because they see it exactly the same as the government: that there is a research environment in Aarhus that they can also participate in. It is true that for some of those who are today close to DIIS, there will be a longer distance when they move to Aarhus. Conversely, there will be some who will come closer. And a great many of DIIS' contacts • those they need to have to come to be presenters or other • have already a quite long journey time because they come from a large international area to participate and participate. Therefore, I do not think it is a hindrance to DIIS' work that it lies in Aarhus, despite the fact that for some it gives a longer journey time, but for others it will then give a shorter journey time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303155801	Thank you. There are still two inscribed to a short remark. The Minister for Taxation No, Mogens Jensen has another brief comment). I'm sorry, I just need to know. Then it's mr. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303155818	Thank you. I would just like an answer to this and I think it is a little essential, because it is in many of the hearings that the Minister agrees that the primary partners are located in the metropolitan area, i.e. those you need to have contact with immediately. Of course, mention is made of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself and the many offices over there, which mention embassies, NGOs, etc. etc. So whether it is true that they are located in the metropolitan area, where there is the most need to hold physical meetings and just to come over and say some things. This also applies to the Folketing, because we sometimes have DIIS over and say something, that is to say that they are in the metropolitan area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303155909	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303155911	It is quite true that many of the partners are located in the metropolitan area, but that is not all of them. There is also a strong and active NGO environment in Aarhus in the whole area of foreign policy and development policy. I'll just have to repeat it, as sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen mentioned earlier, namely that in a number of our European neighbouring countries there are similar institutions for international policy studies outside the capital. It is in Bergen, Milan and Brügge, and here they can easily find an active and vibrant job of studying and developing international policy papers without having to lie up and down the capital, their foreign ministry or embassies. I think that's possible in Aarhus, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303155958	Then we've reached the next one in the series of speeches. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303160005	Thank you. There are a lot of good reasons why the government would like to relocate these jobs, and it was found so quickly that, with regard to some of the people they had planned to move, it was not such a good idea to do so. These were not equal jobs in the minister's area of responsibility, but in others. I would really like to hear some reasons. Well, why was it chosen to point out that DIIS was to be relocated? Was it for Aarhus' sake, or was it because you thought it would create a value for DIIS and for DIIS' work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303160034	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303160035	It is primarily to ensure that we have research institutions that create attractive research and study environments throughout Denmark. We believe that we can create a very attractive research and study environment by combining the international work that Aarhus University is already doing with the capacity that DIIS has. So if you have to weigh it on the weight that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist wants, so it is more towards creating a research environment in Aarhus that develops the skills Aarhus already has. Then I just think that it will also mean that DIIS will be given new impulses that make them not continue as usual. It is not necessarily because caregivers are bad, but because I think that we all need to shake our caregivers off every once in a while and try to see the world with new glasses and therefore I think it will give new impulses to DIIS.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303160133	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303160135	Well, it is quite true that sometimes it makes sense to shake up the caretaker it can be really healthy for both institutions and people. But what I am actually a little curious to know is how the Minister has been sitting and finding out that it should just be DIIS. In other words, an analysis has gone ahead where it has been said: how can we strengthen our area of foreign policy in Denmark? And then DIIS came up. Or what kind of analysis is the reason why it was DIIS and not some other institutions that were chosen to move? Well, why has it been chosen to point to DIIS? Was it a little bit: how can we find the jobs we also want to move out of the Secretary of State's resort area? Or was it the analysis that was at first, which then did the arrow point to DIIS?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303160216	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303160218	It is the case that, in connection with the Government's desire to relocate state jobs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and I, as Minister, have reviewed what we have of institutions and opportunities to move something out and assessed what it makes sense to move. What is relevant in terms of being able to place something elsewhere in Denmark? That is why, as I said earlier, we chose to move the Danida Fellowship Centre out to Mrs Mette Bock. As far as I remember, it moved to Holbæk. If I look down in my notes, it might turn out it's another city, but I think it's Holbæk. And then we have estimated that DIIS would fit well into the international research environment in Aarhus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303160307	Thank you, Minister. There are no more entries for short remarks. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303160323	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, Mr President. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303160402	I'm sorry to keep you waiting. I had an idea that it was the Secretary of State who had to go first. Nevertheless, thank you for the floor, President, and thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the written statement. As the Foreign Minister's statement makes very clear, it has to be said that 2015 has been one of the more challenging years in the history of the European Union, to put it mildly. We have faced all the dilemmas associated with wars and crises when millions of people choose to flee. It has put our ability to reach common solutions under massive pressure, and at the moment Schengen is also under serious pressure. Over the past year, we have faced terrorism several times, we are still being weighed down by far too low economic growth and correspondingly too high unemployment, and the gap between North and South in Europe and the disparities between rich and poor is growing increasingly. We are still challenged by Russia's deliberate provocation to our eastern borders and by the real threats it poses to our neighbours outside the Union. And the problems of ending social dumping are still a major challenge if the fundamental principles of the free movement of workers and the right to set up business in another country are to work in the future too. It is important to understand that many of the enormous challenges facing the European Union today are internally linked. Things are linked, and basically the solutions are only found in the community and through stronger joint commitments. The refugee and migrant crisis, which is one of the crises that currently challenges the core principles of the cohesion of the European Union and, in the long run, our economy and stability, can only be solved by common solutions. There is a need for the EU to actively contribute with more and better help in the neighbourhoods. The European Union needs to secure its external borders through aid and support for countries that are taking on major tasks, and we need to find common solutions with the countries of the south to prevent whole countries and regions from breaking down and breaking under pressure. It must be obvious to everyone that all refugees from the war-torn regions cannot seek refuge in Europe, but that we must do all we can within the Community and with our neighbours to find solutions to the short and long track that can prevent this massive flight we are seeing right now. However, in the midst of all these crises, internally linked or not, it is also important to take on board the positive things that have been achieved together throughout the year, and to pay tribute to the progress that the EU countries have also made. I'll just mention a few of them. First of all, the European Union managed to play a very active and very positive role in the climate negotiations in Paris back in autumn 2015, and the general observation is that the European Union was actually a crucial reason why an agreement was reached at all. The development of new tools to regulate the financial sector in general continues in a positive direction, so that we prevent an entire sector from once again bringing down our economies and a great many ordinary people. The prospects for strengthening cooperation on energy supply and energy policy also offer great opportunities for the future. And it is important, at least for the Social Democrats, that, in the midst of the crises, we keep reminding ourselves that, in fact, we are also moving in an increasingly positive direction on a large number of very crucial points. Back in the autumn, as everyone is aware, we had a vote on the reservation of the law. Of course, in the social democracy, we are still disappointed and saddened by the outcome. This does not mean that we reproach the Danes for voting as they did, and the progress and efforts to reach an agreement on Denmark's accession to Europol and the other points were predictablely very, very difficult. However, we take the result seriously and we are also trying to evaluate the result. In my own constituency here in Copenhagen alone, there are many different types of noes, I have had to experience when I have been talking to people afterwards. On the one hand, people who have voted for Social Democracy for years and who regard themselves as progressive people, but who have nevertheless voted 'no' because they are disappointed that we had not included the reservation on asylum and immigration policy. And then we have another type of 'no', including from socialist core voters, who have been faithfully voting for the party for years, but who basically do not believe that the European Union is defending their fundamental interests and who, at the same time, are feeling clogged by the cart of globalisation. These are both things that we need to take down and evaluate, and these are also things we need to discuss in the Folketing. This is also closely linked to the agreement that Britain has just concluded with the EU countries, and in the long term it is certainly positive in our view. We also believe that it is positive with the result that the Prime Minister has come home with indexing of children's cheques and a large number of other points. But above all the recognition by the other countries of the European Union that we must not work all the time and all at the same pace towards an increasingly narrow union we see as an expression of reality, and we believe that this will also strengthen the Union in the long run. What is needed in the future is for us to come together and find common solutions, both on the refugee and migrant crisis, and also for us to recognise the very, very many people across the continent who, after all, are being helped by developments in Europe, by globalisation and by economic development. We therefore hope that in the coming year the government will also take an active part in the discussions on limiting the use of tax havens for which common European solutions are needed. This is a problem that challenges our entire ability to finance our welfare states. We very much hope that the government will take an active part in the discussion on the Commission's proposal for a revised Posting of Workers Directive, which, if it lands properly, can help prevent social dumping and other forms of wage pressure on Danish agreements, in particular, but which will, as such, prevail throughout the Union. We also very much hope that the government, together with the rest of us, will take a positive view of the enhanced cooperation that, among other things, is being strengthened. is around a tax on financial transactions in the coming year. I think I'll leave those words in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303161052	Thank you, and just one brief comment. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303161057	I would like to thank the rapporteur. There's just one thing I want to solve. For I understood it in that way that the rapporteur, on behalf of the Social Democrats, praised the agreement that the Conservatives, some might say reactionaries, British Prime Minister, have made with the European Union. And then I just want to hear what the rapporteur thinks about the British Labour Party and their leader, who has clearly criticised the agreement and thinks it is a really bad agreement in relation to the possibilities of ensuring social conditions in Britain. He actually calls on the European Parliament to change it, but you will vote yes because you do not want to leave the European Union. That's the choice you've had with the gun in your head, but you actually think it's a bad deal. I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303161145	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303161147	But first of all I would like to say that we are in Denmark and Labour is in Britain. That doesn't change the fact that it's our sister party. You can have many different views on the new Labour leader, but nevertheless I have noted that he has taken an active part in the Stay campaign, which I and the rest of my party think is very, very positive. The reason why we and I praise that agreement is, of course, most of all about the fact that, firstly, we consider this to be very, very critical. If we are to reach common solutions to all the issues I raised in my brief rapporteur's speech here, then we need Britain to remain in the Community. Secondly, we can see some prospects in that, among other things. in relation to the discussions that have been about welfare benefits and indexing of children's checks etc., are also things that we can use and take with us in Denmark. And that's what my praise is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303161243	The questioner for the second brief remark. Wait till it lights up. It is now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303161245	I don't think so, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen just answered the question. Because it is quite right that the British Labour Party, or at least a majority of the party, and the British Labour leader have gone into a stay campaign. For the alternative to voting 'yes' to David Cameron's plan is for Britain to resign, and you will not. At the same time, however, they have criticised the plan negotiated by Prime Minister Cameron, because it leads precisely to worse social conditions for employees with more social dumping and so on. That is why I am a little surprised that the reactionary Prime Minister's plan for Great Britain is given such unconditional praise by the Social Democrats. It's so okay if mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen does not want to go into it further. It's okay. I just think it's an interesting observation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303161345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303161346	I don't know how sir. Søren Søndergaard analyzes my statements. But they certainly should not be seen as any kind of tribute either to the Tory or to David Cameron or, for that matter, to the damaging austerity policy that George Osborne stands for, etc. Nevertheless, I welcome the fact that at all we have managed to reach an agreement with which the British Prime Minister can go to the elections and, hopefully, also win. Because we believe that it is in the common interest of all of us that Britain should remain in the Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303161419	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303161423	Thank you. After all, this is a very exciting debate that the rapporteur is calling for. And if I were a warm supporter of the European Union, I would have some self-critical thoughts about how it could have ended as it has ended: that so many people, both on the right and on the left in Europe, are very critical of EU cooperation. Do we not agree that there is some kind of crisis in the European Union in these years? It was not possible to find a solution based on solidarity in Greece, but to beat them with neoliberal crisis solutions. You cannot find a proper and democratic way of dealing with the refugee problem. You beat each other by building borders all over the place. I think that is exactly the opposite of what the Socialists have told us over the years should be the objective of the European Union, in particular solidarity solutions, common solutions and such things. And now there's England on top. Has the rapporteur given any thought to the future direction of the European Union? For that is what the Minister is actually proposing when he makes the annual statement on the European Union. What is it that is needed to create some enthusiasm and support for the big project?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303161533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303161534	Well, I am, in fact, fully aware of all the many different crises that the European Union is experiencing and take it very seriously as such. And there is no doubt that last year was • and this year it will probably also be a very, very critical time in the whole history of the community. I believe that the path to be followed in the future is, of course, to try to create even stronger common solutions to all the issues which, in particular, make many ordinary employees around Europe feel completely distracted right now. Unfortunately, Denmark does not have a direct influence on what kind of policy one is pursuing in the euro zone, but I think that seems very evident to me even after the OECD made its report here 11⁄2-2 weeks ago, pointing out that it is no longer enough if we want to create economic growth and more jobs, to use monetary policy tools. We simply need to pursue a more relaxed financial policy in Europe, a tool which, in particular, the German Chancellor did not want to use; instead, she has been sent along with increasingly harsh demands on southern Europe. I think that is an interesting perspective, just as it is there and, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, I think it is going in the right direction to try to regulate the financial sector. And I think it is a question of creating proper conditions for employees, where part of it is one of them. is the Posting of Workers Directive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303161658	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303161700	I agree that there are very, very major problems and problems that have partly been created by the EU system. However, does the rapporteur not agree that if we are to make the people like the countries working together, then there should be some kind of democracy, at least not top management, where one is dictated to? I believe that the European Union, through its decision-making processes and its very top-down and undemocratic way of working, is helping to strengthen the right. Because every time they say, there you can see, they come and decide over our heads. This is a very, very dangerous development with which the workers' movement must continue to work if they want international cooperation to be bought by the people. Otherwise, in my opinion, we are selling the political track to the right and in Denmark to the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303161751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303161752	I don't disagree with sir. Christian Juhl in that there are challenges with decision-making processes, top management etc. throughout the EU system. What, on the other hand, is the reality we are facing is both economic development, but also, especially now, in the refugee and migrant crisis, about the fact that when you are not able to create common solutions, each country begins to act for itself. So that means that the alternative to not trying to find common solutions with the very difficult decision-making processes is even more self-interest around Europe. I do not think that this will make the crises any easier to deal with, nor do I believe that it will necessarily reduce the frustration of the people over the crises.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303161843	The next to brief remarks and questions is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303161850	Thank you. I actually got attached to one thing in mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen's rapporteur remark, for it sounded to me as if Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen got the growing EU skepticism linked to such less affected people's frustration about their economic future, and I just want to know if he can elaborate a little. This is, of course, in line, if necessary, with the statement made by the Foreign Minister, where I can see the progress of the EU's skeptical parties risk affecting stability in Europe, i.e. nothing less. I think that is a rather strange way of looking at parties that are EU skeptical, and that is why I wanted to hear Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen about that relationship.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303161940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303161941	So, my remarks weren't about what people choose to go to parliamentary elections and vote on, or which parties they choose to give support to, but that was a very basic analysis of what is going on. I myself come from an environment in which incredibly many people belong to groups of short- and low-paid, and where it is that you simply feel lost, both by the cart of globalisation, and where, in this way, you also feel that Denmark has lost self-determination, and what do I know? I do not know whether it is obvious, but it is certainly something that we do in many ways, including. Here too in the Parliamentary Chamber and in the individual parties, we must take stock of and discuss, and, as we particularly do when it comes to evaluating the various votes where, in my view, it should have been a clear 'yes' to becoming part of Europol, we must take part in that evaluation. And that's kind of just what I said.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303162044	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303162045	Quite surprisingly, Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen what he said in his speech, which I thought must be a statement. Is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen himself realizes how patronizing an attitude he is in relation to some sections of the population, which apparently according to Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen is EU-sceptic because they are worried about globalisation because they are afraid of the future? Is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen even knows how condescending the rhetoric is to those people?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303162115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303162130	I certainly do not regard it as condescending, and I think, Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth really wants to put the interpretation down on it. After all, it is about looking at it quite really, and I understand the frustrations. If it is that, in relation to many of the joint decisions, we have been able to see for many years beyond the fact that, through free trade and market liberalisation, we have also helped create a lot of jobs, etc. This must be taken seriously, especially as a social democrat, and that is what I am saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303162158	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments to this rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303162219	Thank you, Madam President. 2015 was truly an annus horribilis for Europe, a year in which all the warnings issued for years by the Danish People's Party and other national parties about an impending disaster, if no fundamental change was made to the policy of foreigners, unfortunately came true. In 2015, well over 1 million people set their course for Europe in the hope of a better life. Developments in particular accelerated after the German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, had issued in early autumn something similar to a general amnesty to all the crowds in the world to seek shelter in Germany. Like another Mother Teresa, Chancellor Merkel ordered the Hungarian Government to refrain from defending the country's borders in return from allowing thousands and thousands of strangers with a desire to come to Germany and Scandinavia to travel through Hungary via the main train station in Budapest and to Germany and from there through Denmark and to the world's humanitarian superpower Sweden. In Denmark, the police, probably in agreement with the government, refrained from guarding the Danish borders, except for a short intermezzo, which led to absurd scenes where asylum seekers ran away from registration centres and subsequently walk up the South Jutland motorway, while the Danes watched. The situation was unacceptable and had to be resolved. The solution was to abandon control and allow those concerned to travel incognito through Denmark to reach the humanitarian superpower on the other hand Øresund in an attempt to get the absurd situation to get just a skin of normality. However, as you know, the air soon went out of the world's humanitarian superpower, faced with the consequences of its own headless suicidal policy, with the gnashing of tears and teeth having to introduce border control and transport responsibility, and recognizing that the very raison d'être of the people's home as a helmet to the world's poor and persecuted fell to shreds. What did the EU do under the impression of the tsunami-like wave of immigrants? Nothing of value, or rather nothing of value. Instead of dealing with the essentials of stopping the influx, it was intended to distribute itself out of the problem. A temporary redistribution mechanism for Greece and Italy, involving 160 000 asylum seekers to be spread across the European countries, was adopted in the face of a lot of fuss and with protests from several Eastern European countries. But the Eastern Europeans did not let themselves be kidded. For nearly 50 years, the Eastern Europeans had stood up against one totalitarian state, which wants to boy the spirit of freedom of the Eastern Europeans. Now, 25 years after the fall of the wall, we would not be dictated by a new totalitarianism in the form of a German Chancellor who, in his heart's goodness, would force the Eastern European countries to clean up after the policy of boundless goodness had collapsed. So the Eastern Europeans quit. There are no mosques in our country, so we will accept Christian refugees alone, said Slovakia. The Czech President, Milos Zeman, said the unspeakable, namely that Muslims in practice cannot integrate Europe. The Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán had at that time built the wall to protect Hungary's borders from a new invasion from the southeast. The Polish Government has announced that it does not want to accept refugees; it has enough to deal with the refugees coming from Ukraine. And Slovenia began to build a border fence on the border with Croatia. What was the EU's response? The backdrop and the backdrop of the European elite. Jean Claude Juncker climbed the high horse of morality and kissed the Eastern European countries for being unsolidaristic towards the other EU countries; Merkel demanded that the Eastern Europeans contribute; and Federica Mogherini pleaded that there should be a place in Europe not only for Islam, but even for political Islam. The EU's elite have not grasped what is at stake. Integrating Minister Inger Løjberg last week, there was only one solution to the migrant crisis, that it should come from the European Union. If that is true, we are truly in a bad place because there is no solution from the European Union. This has been acknowledged by a number of countries, and Denmark may as well acknowledge this at first as last. symptomatic of this is the European Union's action in the Mediterranean. In practice, the European Union has become the right hand of smugglers. When fallen vessels are brought up on the high seas, they are safely taken ashore in Europe. In a payable hope of getting Turkey to play the violin of the European Union, the European Union has concluded an agreement with Turkey to pay 3 billion. The European Union is committed to the fight against terrorism and to the fight against terrorism. However, the money is not central. The key point is that Turkey has been promised that the accession negotiations with Turkey will be given turbos, that it will be seen to facilitate access for Turks to come to Europe, for example, in order to work. For Erdogan, it is not a question of stopping asylum seekers in their attempts to come to Europe; it is a question of replacing asylum seekers with Turks. Europe can choose: either a flood of asylum seekers or a flood of Turks. And what has Turkey provided so far against the EU's toothless sabre rattling? Nothing like nothing. Absolutely nothing. Turkey is taking the European Union's lead. And it is paradoxical, while Turkey seems to have agreed that if NATO vessels pick up asylum seekers coming from Turkey, then those concerned will be able to return to Turkey, judging by the defence minister's reply to you, quietly. The European Union remains humiliated. Recognizing that the EU is not capable of delivering solutions, a number of countries have introduced border controls. Austria recently hosted a meeting with a number of Balkan countries to try to stem the flow of refugees in a meeting to which Greece was not invited. This only shows once again that when the EU does not work, the countries are working bilaterally to find solutions that can stop the flow. Let it be quite clear that the task from the point of view of the Danish People's Party is to stop the flow of asylum seekers. There is no way out of this problem. However, if you insist, the EU will break in half, quite simply. On 23 June, the British will vote on whether they wish to remain a member of the European Union. On the Danish side, we should not interfere in the debate. It is the British people who have to make their choice. Nevertheless, we are standing in a ford. If the British remain in the European Union, there is hope for a reformed European Union, a European Union that leaves more room for nation states, a European Union that recognises that there are certain things that the European Union must interfere with, in fact, by far the majority, an EU that recognises, for example, that it should not be a social union, an EU that takes the lead from the Laeken Declaration and starts to return power to the nation states instead of demanding power handed down in Strasbourg and Brussels. See, this is a viable European Union. A European Union that continues along the path that has been trodden over the last 20 years is an EU that cannot survive. It is an EU that will face opposition every time people are asked. With few exceptions, the peoples of Europe are not prepared to hand over more power to the European Union. In reality, the warmest supporters of the European Union are at the edge of Europe today. In the Balkans, countries such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania and Kosovo dream of a future as members of the European Union. But is that dream about being a member of a European superstate? No, the dream is about something different tangible, something quite present and in its essence national: the desire for prosperity and economic wealth for these countries. In the remaining part of Eastern Europe, the enthusiasm for the European Union is under intense cooling. The European Union is at a time of destiny when it has to choose. Will one survive in a slimmer and more well-trimmed version that respects the peculiarities of the nation states, or will one go down as the German-Roman Empire? The European Union has brought prosperity and wealth to Europe through the establishment of the internal market. Some claim that the European Union has brought peace to Europe. You can always argue if it's true. The Atlantic Alliance and the deeper commitment of the United States to Europe cannot be denied a certain role in this, but if the European Union has so far brought peace to Europe, the European Union's immediate action will instead bring strife to Europe. A European Union that cannot secure its external borders, where according to Europol, 5,000 militant Islamists have used the migration flow to the European Union and are now supposedly planning major terrorist attacks in Europe's metropolis, is a European Union that is failing its peoples. The Foreign Minister's statement states that 2015 was the year that, and now I quote: "Declare with clarity that our European values and social goals can only be defended and promoted through strong and successful EU cooperation'. Excuse me, but where has the Secretary of State been? At least it's not on this planet. Where is the strong and successful EU cooperation that the Foreign Minister is talking about? Where is the defence of our European values? And does the European Union even represent those values? Rather, the EU represents a kind of political correctness on speed, which can explain in an appropriate way why the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party are now the only reserveless cliquers the project meets in this Chamber. The EU cannot save Denmark from the consequences of mass immigration. Denmark can only save itself. We might as well get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303163203	There is one brief comment, Mr President. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303163209	Thank you. Much against custom, after all, the rapporteur expressed a very moderate opinion on the referendum in Great Britain. It was almost impossible to hear what the rapporteur actually thought the British should vote. I understood that no call would be made. But I understood correctly when I understood that what the rapporteur actually did, like the Socialists and perhaps Mr. Holger K. Nielsen wanted it to come out, was Britain to remain in the EU? Was that the wish expressed by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303163248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303163249	That was the wish expressed by the rapporteur. But I would also like to make it very clear that we do not want to interfere in a British vote by the Danish People's Party. We will not tell the British to do one thing or the other. So when I say as I do, it is from a strict nationalist point of view that we believe that we in Denmark are better off having Britain within the European Union than outside the European Union. It is simply about the path of reform. I attach great importance to the fact that David Cameron indicated that this was the first step and that the course of reform for Britain would continue after a 'yes' vote in Britain. I attach importance to this, because it is crucial. This deal is bad, not at all enough. It is not the one that saves the European Union. What can save the European Union is a fundamental review of the European Union, and I actually believe that Britain, at least the British people, basically wants it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303163354	The second brief remark is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303163356	I think there are many who feel strongly reassured by the fact that the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party and the SF do not, as in common, sail over to Britain in a Viking boat to force a 'yes' to the European Union. But we can understand that the desire, the common pious desire, to preserve the European Union is shared. And that is, of course, even if everyone can see that the agreement that Britain has reached is, most of all, a bag of hot air. Among other things: virtually everything can be ignored by the European Parliament or future Heads of Government. That means that what you want is a 'yes' in Britain to the European Union as it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303163441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303163442	Britain and the British must interpret their agreement themselves. I'm not gonna stand here and do that. I have great confidence that you can. I fully agree that it would be very unwise to sail over to Britain in a Viking boat to ask them for anything. I came to mention, when I visited Ireland here in January, that I came from Denmark. It was in a museum that was about the Viking Age and the Middle Ages. They were not so happy to hear that message. One was a little afraid of Danes, she said. So I think we should just stay away from interfering in that debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303163518	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, to a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303163520	It's strange how different it can be. I have been to the same museum, and there they were thrilled to hear my great interest in the Viking Age and were very happy when we came with the great reconstruction of the Viking ship from Roskilde. It's so different. If we cannot ask more directly what the Danish People's Party thinks about what is happening in Britain, I would like to hear: if we vote no over there, is it the view of the Danish People's Party that we should also have a vote in Denmark? And if so, what would the Danish People's Party recommend for such a vote?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303163559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303163600	Mr. Christian Juhl has a number of things to say. There are a number of men's and if's in that question, and I think I would be awkward to embark on a very specific answer to a question that contains so many beephrases. However, I would like to say so much that it is clear that it puts us in a new situation if it is the case that the British vote out of the European Union. We will have to decide on that if that happens. But I think it would be a little untimely for the British to be allowed to have this vote if we made very clear statements about it. I would also like to say that it is good that, when we do not share political observation, we share a preference for Dublinia in Dublin after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303163650	The second brief remark is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303163652	Well, I didn't call for us to discuss it either. I respect the fact that the Danish People's Party thinks it is okay that everything is as it is and that Britain should stay in the European Union. Many people just have a very different view of the Danish People's Party. That is why I am asking about our own relationship, which certainly concerns us in here: what happens if the English vote 'no'? I think we have both a Foreign Minister and a Prime Minister who thinks a lot about those things and who wonders what happens next. I think it would be perfectly natural for us to have such a vote. I have been looking forward to having this vote for 44 years. And that is why it was interesting to ask those on the other wing, who often present themselves as critics and opponents of the European Union, whether they would also be involved in this. But I understand that we are not getting an answer today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303163743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303163744	Sir. Christian Juhl does not quite get the answer that Mr. Christian Juhl would like it. That's how much I'd like to admit. But I have to stress once again that the Danish People's Party is not an EU opponent party. We are an EU-sceptic party, an EU-critical party that wants the European Union to move in a different direction. And I would like to say that I believe there is now a possibility of a change. But it is clear that if that change is not created, if the opportunity is not seized, then we can find ourselves in a new situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303163818	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Michael Aastrup Jensen for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303163833	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for his written statement on the European political situation. As it clearly describes, 2015 has been a year of huge challenges both for Europe and for European cooperation. Much suggests that 2016 will also not be less eventful. The pressure for refugees and migration against Europe continues, and thus the pressure on the EU to deal with the situation will continue. Hopefully, the border package and the agreement with Turkey will be elements that bear fruit in the efforts to get the situation under control. However, we will keep an eye on whether the Turks are living up to their share of the agreement and delivering results on the things we have agreed with them. If it succeeds, it will undoubtedly help to curb the enormous flow of refugees and migrants who have set their course for Europe. In a few days' time, there will be a summit between the European Union and Turkey, from which we will hopefully also receive positive reports on cooperation. Work on creating growth and jobs in Europe remains high on the agenda. The economic situation in Europe, as we can also read in the report, is so small in lightening. But unemployment rates in southern Europe in particular remain extremely high. Europe as a region and an economy has continued to be challenged by other regions of the world, and we must therefore work hard to ensure the prosperity we have built up over generations. Trust in EU cooperation is very low as a result of the many crises around Europe. The debt crisis in Greece pulled major headlines and put EU cooperation to a serious test. So far, the European Union has not been able to provide an effective solution to the refugee and migration pressures against Europe. However, in the midst of all the crisis talk, it is worth stopping and reminding ourselves, each other and others of how successful European cooperation is and has been over the last few decades. Because we have suffered a tendency to focus on all the negative and on what does not work. After all, there is also a great deal that actually works in EU cooperation. Many of the things that work, we don't even notice because we're starting to take them for granted. The more years of peace in Europe after the end of the Second World War, the more we take peace in Europe as a matter of course. Quite young people today do not have the historical perspective at all in their world picture and therefore do not see the European Union as what it was originally created to be: a peacekeeping institution in Europe. Over 70 years of peace among European countries must be largely attributed to EU cooperation. I know it may sound a bit like a cliché, but it doesn't make it any less true. Instead of fighting each other, we have resolved our differences at the negotiating table, and we have come closer together through trade, which has largely prevented us from resorting to arms in disagreements. It must be said to be a huge success. Trade in particular has brought prosperity to us Europeans. The development of the internal market has had an enormous impact on the individual European. It is over 20 years since the single market became a reality. In 1992, the internal market covered 345 million consumers, and today it includes 500 million consumers. Trade between EU countries has also increased from 800 billion in 1992. EUR 2 800 billion for 2013; euro. During the same period, European countries tripled their trade with the rest of the world. In Denmark alone, almost half a million jobs are related to the single market. It is just the internal market that we know today. The European Union's internal market is being upgraded to such an extent, and in particular. the development of a digital single market has a huge potential for the European economy of 415 billion. euro. And there is more to be done if we take advantage of the positive contribution made by trade to the economy. As the statement also clearly shows, there are good tactics to detect in the negotiations being conducted by the EU and the United States on the Transatlantic Free Trade Agreement, TTIP. If an agreement is reached, Denmark alone will increase exports to the United States by 14 per cent. That's 14 billion. kr. a year. These are benefits that can be felt, and these are benefits that we could not have created ourselves without European cooperation. When the Sainthans fires on 23 June are burning out along the Danish coasts, many will probably be excited about the outcome of the British referendum on EU membership. It is of great importance for Denmark and the rest of the EU whether the British choose to stay in the EU or whether they resign. Denmark has a very large community of interests with the British, and we see things the same in many cases within the European Union. Denmark also has a lot of trade with the British, and that is another reason to hope for a 'yes' for the British on 23 June. As a starting point for the vote, the British have achieved a very good agreement with the European Union. It is an agreement that meets important points for the British in their relationship with the European Union. One of the points has particular attention in Denmark, namely the point of indexing child benefit. It is clear from the negotiations in Brussels that it is not only the British who can use that indexation, but also Denmark. We in the Left are incredibly satisfied with that. The free movement of workers in Europe is a positive part of the internal market, but the European Union must not be a social union, and therefore there must be fairness and balance in the relationship between migrant workers and access to social benefits in individual Member States. In our view, it is not reasonable for migrant workers to be able to send home a large Danish children's check to children living in another EU country where the cost of living is quite different from here in Denmark. That is why indexation is a victory for the line that the Left has taken under the auspices of the European Union. One of the big knots for Denmark in 2016 will be whether we can save the pieces and continue to secure Denmark's association with Europol. The Left, of course, takes note of the outcome of the referendum of 3 December. But I do not want to hide the fact that we in the Left are very sorry that it turned out to be a no to the opt-in system which would have been a luxury tag self-table for Denmark. We are even more concerned that Denmark is getting out of Europol. At the same time, we have had all the decision-making powers on the question of whether or not the European Union is going to let us have some sort of connection with Europol. It is now up to the EU institutions in Brussels to decide, not the Danish Parliament. No, since during the campaign, the Danes were able to safely vote 'no' and continue to vote 'no' in Europol. It is deeply irresponsible to blind the Danes, because it is not true what the 'no' side promised, even guaranteed. The fact is that we are getting out of Europol when Europol changes status from intergovernmental to supranational cooperation. It happens very soon, and then the Danish police stand without one of the most important tools to solve crime. We have no right to have a parallel agreement with the European Union to be part of Europol. In fact, it is far from certain that we can reach an agreement. The paradox is that all parties now agree that it is a good thing that the Danish police are part of Europol, but the situation is as it is. We need to look forward. That is why I know that the government will fight with beaks and claws to ensure that Denmark can get as good an agreement as possible with the EU on Denmark in Europol. We look back in many ways on a 2015 which has been marked by crises. 2016 does not seem to be without challenges, but there are also many fundamental things in the European Union that are well-functioning and help to create a secure and good framework for the life that we as Europeans live. It remains to be seen that the European Union is part of the solution to many of the problems we face together, and that is why we are looking forward to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303164806	Thank you. There is one more brief comment. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303164813	I'd like to ask, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, the rapporteur of the Left, to confirm that if a majority in the Danish Parliament so wishes and a majority in the Danish people, it is a completely sovereign Danish decision whether or not we are in Europol • completely sovereign Danish decision if there is a majority in the Folketing and a majority in the population.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303164843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303164845	It is the case that it will still require a debate on what kind of approach it wants with regard to Europol, and that is why the previous government of the European political majority including the Left had negotiated an agreement on both Europol and the 22 acts that we thought were the right balance between continued membership of Europol on equal terms with the rest and, at the same time, we also achieved a wide range of advantages over the acts in question. So it will still require some sort of negotiation so that we ensure that there is the necessary membership. That is exactly what I said in my speech that the government is actively doing at the moment. Will that mean that it has to be some kind of parallel agreement? Will that mean that it will require a new vote? It's a big question we don't know the answer to yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303164937	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303164940	I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to clarify this question, but to Mr Beyer de Ryke. Michael Aastrup Jensen I just have to say that the fact is that if there is a majority in the Danish Parliament and a majority in the Danish population, no negotiations are required for Denmark to be able to join Europol. It is a purely one-sided Danish decision, and that is why we could also promise in the election campaign that if there was the wish of a majority in the Folketing and a majority in the population, one could become a member of Europol without the European Union being able to prevent it. We then prefer a parallel agreement, but there we admit that we are dependent on the government actually fighting for a parallel agreement and actually using the opportunities that are given to get a parallel agreement instead of sitting on its hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303165031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303165033	First of all, I would like to say in all seriousness that I am pleased that the Enhedslisten is now in favour of membership of Europol. You didn't do that in the past, so it's nice that you do it now. I will then say, as I said in my speech, that the government is fighting hard to get as good a solution as possible, but we also recognise that we have therefore just had a referendum and that referendum has given the result that it did. Therefore, I think it seems a little strange that Enhedslisten is now trying to minimize everything and saying that it just almost takes a phone call, because it is not really the way I see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303165107	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, to a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303165110	After all, we are at the heart of some of what the government must put on the table at some point, namely whether they really want a parallel agreement or whether they want a full agreement, whether they want to create a situation in which they are negotiating a bad parallel agreement. So far, we have not seen much activity and energy. The Enhedslisten has said that, if the people want it, it must, of course, be given the opportunity to do so. We are not going to be at the front of the barricade, either to get any kind of agreement with Europol, but we are going to take part in the debate and we are going to keep the government up to act on the basis that they have expressed in the campaign for the retention of justice in December. So that way, it's kind of up to the Left what they want, and it's gonna be exciting to see if they want anything at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303165208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303165212	I made it clear in my speech what we want. We want to be a member of Europol. We recognise the 'no' as it was given, but to start to minimize this to the fact that we can just do what we want to do is as far away from reality as we can possibly get. Well, I have to admit, I'm speechless. Now it's backed up by no. Two from the Enhedslisten. Now it's Mr. Christian Juhl, who does it. So I'm speechless, because it can't just be solved by calling and saying, "Now we're joining tomorrow." And then it's just in place. We cannot do that, and the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have clearly explained this during the process since the 'no' vote, in which I also know that the 'Enhedslisten' is included. So I don't quite understand that Enhedslisten keeps on drawing these absurdities, excuse me for saying it plainly: it's just as easy as you're trying to draw a picture of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303165303	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303165305	Absurdities aren't. We are just trying to tell you how things are going when the rapporteur on the Left is getting sidetracked. After all, it is necessary to do this to the people too, because you can appear as if you want so much, and then the European Union must be blamed for not being able to do so anyway. That's not true. In fact, I would have liked to have discussed something more fundamental about the European Union, but we will not have room for this time. I guess we'll do that next time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303165336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303165338	I don't know what kind of siding I'm supposed to be on my way out according to Enhedslisten, but I feel like every time Enhedslisten thinks I'm on the wrong track, I have to be on the right course. In relation to the specific subject, it is just as was clearly outlined in my speech that the government takes it very seriously. We in the Left want to be a member of Europol. We would also very much have liked to have been included in those legislative acts, which is why we argued for a yes. Now I know that the government is working a hundred percent targeted to get a solution that is as easy as possible, but it's just not as easy as Enhedslisten is trying to draw a picture that it is, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303165411	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks to this rapporteur, which we shall continue to make in the series of speeches. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303165431	Thank you so much. What is the starting point for today's discussion is, after all, this report on the development of EU cooperation in 2015. There you would think that some of the real problems were on the table, the prune on the counter, but it is such a strange beauty of how well things are going in the European Union. It is almost such a propaganda writing that could be published by the Left up to the next EU election campaign on the bliss of the EU. There have been some problems, but we're on our way out of it. It's going well. Unemployment fell below 10%. in the EU as a whole and that is quite right. Unemployment fell below 10%. in the EU as a whole, if we look at the EU 28. 9.4% In 2015, exactly. But if we look at the euro zone, it is a little interesting when we talk about the European Union, because we know that the currency of the European Union is the euro, the currency of the European Union is not the crown or the pound, or whatever else it might be, the European currency is the euro, and it is the euro zone that is bound by some very specific political guidelines, as other countries, for example. Britain is not bound by. And what about the countries that are bound by these guidelines? Unemployment has also fallen to less than 10%.? No, it's not. It is 10.9% in 2015, far, far above what it should be on, and far, far beyond what it was on before the crisis got through. In January 2016, there were over 20 million unemployed in the EU 28. 4.5 million of the unemployed were under 25 years of age. 4.5 million, roughly the population of Denmark minus Aarhus and a little more, were without work in the EU. In Italy it was 39,3%, in Croatia it was 44,1%, in Spain it was 45%, in Greece it was 48%. Imagine four countries, of which three or at least the two are among the largest in the European Union, with youth unemployment of between one third and half. It is a disaster for the eurozone countries. The statement makes a great deal of showing Greece as a very special case. That is where things are going very badly, even though they now have their crisis plan, and they must then be on their way out of the problems. Greece, which has a debt after the crisis plan has now been launched, is 171%. of gross domestic product a debt of 171%. It's just Greece, of course. It's different in the other countries. The other countries of the European Union are described as a place where, and I quote, economies generally emerged robustly where economies generally appeared robust. Portugal: A debt of 130.5%. of GDP, Italy: a debt of 134.6 per cent. What is it about Italy? Is it the EU's third or fourth largest economy? Italy has a debt of 134.6 per cent. of GDP and with clear indications that many of the loans that exist in Italian banks cannot be repaid. That is why, if you read not only the government statement but also the newspapers, for example. The Investor Exchange, on 11 February, was able to read that the euro crisis is once again knocking on the door of Europe. It is written: the euro crisis is once again knocking on Europe's door, fear of country confrontation is back in Europe with massive interest rate increases in southern Europe. Portugal, in particular, is under pressure with rising interest rates, while at the same time the price of insurance against a Portuguese country exchange rate is rising dramatically. Portuguese ten-year interest rates are rising 18%. at an interest rate of 3,9%, which is the highest since July 2014. Yeah. The EU's economies are robust, but with disastrously large debts in some of the central EU countries, and with the risk that the crisis that is now being said to be coming out will come back. Another area in which the European Union has shown its weakness is in the area of refugees and migration. After all, we are constantly being told that this is because a lot of people suddenly came over with some boats and flowed through Europe. But what is reality? The reality is that this has been the totally predictable crisis that everyone knew would come. Why? Because the countries have been destabilised, among other things. Libya with an invasion; any kind of legal entry into the European Union has been closed; and then there have been some Schengen rules that consist of two things. One thing is that they say that it is the country into which the refugees enter that has to take asylum and the other thing is that if they move on, they can be sent back to that country. After all, these are rules which mean that a few countries were supposed to take full responsibility. And with the way in which the flows of refugees developed via the Balkan route, it was primarily Greece that was able to take the entire flow of refugees and to bear that burden. At the same time, no solution could be found to distribute the refugees who came to Greece. They just had to do that. After all, there is no human being who can imagine that it could hold. This is something that has been under discussion for years, i.e. that system would not last. Nevertheless, no initiatives have been taken, even from changing Danish governments, because in this way it has been very pleased that it was located in southern Europe until it all collapsed. What has then been found out is: OK, if we can't do anything efficient ourselves, then we can give Turkey 3 billion. EUR 21.5 billion in round figures. kr., to keep the refugees away from us. Just as at the time, Gaddafi was kissed and hugged to keep the refugees away, kiss and hug Erdogan with 3 billion. The euro, which he can then have the courage to make sure, in return, that no refugees come to Europe. Yesterday we had that discussion here in the Danish Parliament, and I think that was a very interesting thing, because the Minister for Finance could explain that there were a lot of demands for Turkey in order for them to have those 3 billion. euro. They would be paid in instalments, so they would not get them all at once, etc. Then there was a member of the Folketing who asked whether, among the conditions for Turkey, it was for Turkey to respect human rights, first and foremost, of course, in relation to the refugees, such as Turkey. come from Syria and where there are already numerous examples of them being beaten by border guards, robbed and sent back. So is there a clear demand for Turkey to respect human rights? There the Minister for Finance replied, perhaps to some surprise I can see that the Minister for Foreign Affairs knows the answer, he is already going down to fetch assistance that he could not answer. The Minister for Finance simply could not answer whether there was a requirement for Turkey to respect human rights in this respect. And then the Minister for Finance continued to say that we had to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs about that. That's what we're doing now, sir. Minister for Foreign Affairs. The question which the Minister of Finance was unable to answer yesterday and which he asked us to ask the Foreign Minister is the question we are now asking the Foreign Minister: are there human rights requirements linked to the agreement reached with Turkey, that is to say, that human rights must be respected in relation to refugees, for example, who come from Turkey? Syria? And what are the consequences of wrongdoing? Is 10 seconds left? I would just like to conclude by saying that there are many other things that have been going on: TTIP and the whole of political development and the growing resistance. In the Enhedslisten, we are not surprised that opposition to the EU is growing. Therefore, it is also our fundamental view that we need to start discussing an alternative to the European Union, especially if there is a "no' in Britain, because then it might be an automatic reaction from circles in the European Union that Britain should be punished. Our answer would be to start discussing an alternative to the European Union, because the situation in which the European Union cannot continue is actually extremely possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303170517	The 10 seconds then led one to ask for a brief comment, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303170523	It is a little in addition to a question that Enhedslisten asked to Dansk Folkeparti. If it becomes a British yes to resign from the EU, that is, if we get a brexit, will the Enhedslisten demand a Danish referendum on EU membership and recommend that Denmark leave the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303170548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303170549	Fortunately, I can answer this very clearly: the Enhedslisten has been calling for years for a study of the possibilities for another cooperation with the European Union and also of the possibilities for Denmark's position in such cooperation. And it is clear that if Britain steps out of the European Union, it is absolutely crucial to have such a study and, on that basis, to have a referendum on Denmark's position in relation to the European Union. That goes without saying. That is why it is clear that we want a referendum on the European Union in Denmark, to the extent that Britain decides to leave the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303170630	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303170632	It was not a very clear answer that we should have a study or a White Paper or whatever it is. I know that one too well. I've seen that many times before. My question was very specific: will the Enhedslisten demand a referendum on Danish withdrawal from the EU, and will Enhedslisten recommend that Denmark withdraw from the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303170656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303170657	We will vote in Denmark on Denmark's relationship with the European Union if Britain votes no. If Britain steps out of the EU, we must have a referendum in Denmark. That vote will Enhedslisten help to propose and work for, and we also hope that SF will participate. It would, of course, be a completely fundamental change in the conditions for Danish EU membership if we were to find ourselves in a situation where Britain is leaving, and of course the Danish people must be asked again. You can have different views about what you would then call for to vote. I find it very difficult to imagine that this does not lead to a call for Denmark to be withdrawn from the EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303170745	There is one more for a brief comment. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303170748	Thank you. It was actually the dialogue that was just here that made me have to ask a few questions about this. I know very well the wish of Enhedslisten to come up with a new form of cooperation in Europe. But what is being asked here is precisely whether Denmark, if Britain chooses to step out and 27 other countries choose to continue, should also step out, or whether one should try to transform the cooperation into something else. In other words, does Enhedslisten want us to turn our backs on the others if they do not want another form of cooperation, but will continue with what is there? Or are we going to stay in the cooperation we have now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303170824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303170825	After all, you do not turn your back on someone because you choose your own way of working together. I mean, if we're gonna do something like this... I would like to say that I do not think Norway has turned its back on anyone. On the contrary, I think that Norway has been one of the most active and dynamic countries in terms of, for example, facilitating peace negotiations, whether in Sri Lanka, in Palestine or elsewhere, and has played a fantastically active foreign policy role. So you do not turn your back on anyone because you do not want to join the political club, which is based on a certain liberalist Treaty basis called the European Union. So Enhedslisten doesn't. But it is clear that if we have a situation in which Britain comes out, there will be new opportunities. For example: What is called the EEA, which today is made up of some very small countries, is very marked by the need to take over everything that comes from the European Union, to get a new vitality, because a large country like Great Britain and possibly Denmark can join in the cooperation called EEA cooperation, under some new conditions, i.e. in a reformed version. This will provide some opportunities for a large number of the benefits that are said to be enjoyed by the European Union to actually continue. So yes, we think it is quite clear that we should have that discussion about Danish membership. And it is not to turn your back on anyone; it is to find some better ways of working together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303170945	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303170947	I am sorry if it was an expression that fell on the rapporteur's chest. What I'm really curious about knowing is that one thing is wanting to change a collaboration is that it's something you do together. Another thing is to resign from cooperation; that is something one partner does. So that's really what I'm curious to know: what's the difference between working together to find out how we're gonna change this, and then saying, "Okay, you guys want to keep going." If Britain stays, and then we're still gone, then it's 27 countries. If Britain chooses to leave the European Union, then there are 26 countries besides us. So if the others do not want to change that cooperation, should we take the step out of it, so not turn our backs on it, but take the step out of it all alone without the others taking part in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303171030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303171031	Well, I think we should be aware of the specific nature of EU cooperation. EU cooperation is treaty-based, and the Treaties are not just about rules of the game; the Treaties are also about politics. That's very unusual. In other words, apart from perhaps the issue of ownership and a few other things, the Danish constitution is about rules of the game and not politics. But the EU Treaties are about politics. It is clear that if you disagree with that policy, you want to change the Treaty. The problem in the European Union is that they can only be changed if all countries agree. It is not even enough for a majority to agree that they need to be changed; it is not even enough for 18 out of 28 countries to want it to change. All 28 countries must agree on the same day otherwise nothing will change. That is why I have to say that we should not, of course, be bound into cooperation and a situation in which we do not have any real opportunities to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303171130	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more entries for short remarks. We shall continue with the next rapporteur, Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303171148	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the written statement on the development of EU cooperation 2015. We'll take note of that in the Liberal Alliance. Looking back at the European Year of Development, 2015, I am strengthened in the view that we should have a narrower, but also a stronger, European Union. We need an EU to create growth and free trade. That is why we support the continued efforts being made in the European Union to create a free trade agreement with the United States and Japan, as successfully achieved with Vietnam in 2015. This will provide easier access to new markets for our businesses, which means new jobs and leads to increased availability for more products and lower prices for consumers. We would like the European Union and the Danish Government to strengthen their focus on free trade, because we in the Community need to look beyond the borders of the European Union to ensure our prosperity in the future, just as free trade is also an effective tool for combating poverty in the world's poorest countries. We need an EU that works for peace. That is why we support the agreement reached on Iran's nuclear programme, in which the EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs, Federica Mogherini, was at the forefront of the negotiations. Equally, there is a need for common European pressure on Russia, both through sanctions and at political level. The European Neighbourhood Policy, with support for the countries that have been through crises or upheavals, is essential in preventing instability. At the same time, the EU and its Member States are major donors of development aid. We must stand together in order to strengthen progress towards peace. We also need an EU to create freedom. Through our European cooperation, Danish young people have been given the opportunity to train across national borders. We have been able to move abroad to take up work and we have abolished the internal European borders. It is an advantage that we remove as many barriers and modern tape as possible for the mobile international citizen. However, this must be done without putting pressure on our welfare services. We therefore hope that the government will follow up on the agreement reached by the blue parties before the elections last year. We are delighted that the individual is given freedom and opportunities, even outside the borders of his own country. European cooperation creates a greater value for us Danes in many ways. However, 2015 was a year marked by European challenges and crises. At the risk of this sounding like a plunder, we in the Liberal Alliance continue to believe that a common European solution to the immigration and refugee crisis is needed. We believe that the European Union should bear more of its share of the costs of creating stable external borders. Of course, beneficiary countries such as Greece, Italy and Hungary must be supported by other European countries in order to meet this common challenge. Another fundamental challenge is the great difference of opinion between the political consensus here in the Folketing and the Danes in general. We saw it again in the referendum in December last year, when, despite the fact that a large majority of the political parties recommended a 'yes' to abolishing the reservation of law, it turned into a 'no' vote by the citizens. That in itself is an argument that the old parties should not continue with the European political work as business as usual. This is not a new or unknown challenge, but we have still not changed our workflow. On the other hand, unfortunately, developments seem to be moving in the direction of the Danes and our politicians moving further away from each other when it comes to European politics. We have a responsibility to represent the Danes' positions and to assert them at the political level. We have a responsibility to dare to open up the debate and spread it out, including between elections and referendums. If we do not do so, European cooperation will face a difficult future and a shaky legitimacy. We therefore propose that the parties of the Danish Parliament should meet for a new European political agreement, that the resignation of the Council of Ministers should be moved down here in the Parliamentary Chamber, and that there should be transparency. a referendum on the banking union. Danish European political work is rooted in an agreement from 2008. There's been a lot of water running under the bridge since 2008. Both the EU and Denmark have changed. Yes, my own party was quite different then. Let us dare to take the debate on European cooperation and create a modern basis for the Danish starting point. I call on the government to open up the renegotiation of the European political agreement. We need more attention to be paid to European political debates, both among us MEPs, in the media and in the political discussion in Danish homes. That is why the Liberal Alliance is calling on the parties to transfer negotiating mandates to ministerial meetings from the premises of the European Committee down to the Parliamentary Chamber. Like last year, we welcome referendums on all reservations and also want a referendum on the banking union. We are pleased that the British have put the vision of a narrower EU on the agenda. We hope that they will remain in cooperation so that we can work together for a narrower, but stronger, European Union where European cooperation will not be wider, but stronger and more effective in the areas that will be in the European Union's focus: peace, freedom and free trade. We should not blindly follow a given path where the direction is set on autopilot towards ever greater integration in all areas. We must be as detailed, nuanced and sharp in European policy as in the debates we have on domestic affairs. That is the only way we will have European cooperation that is strong and present and that creates added value for the Danes and Europeans. For that is what the European Union can do if we focus our efforts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303171817	Thank you to the rapporteur for whom there are no brief comments, so we will continue in the rapporteur's line. The next speaker is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303171836	As the Minister's statement shows, 2015 was, to say the least, a turbulent year, not only for Denmark, but indeed for Europe as well. There are many things you could choose to highlight. It could, for example, be done. be the dwindling support for the European project in many Member States, the highly criticised TTIP negotiations, the current refugee situation, which, unfortunately, the European Union has not addressed together sufficiently, and not least the global climate challenges that we are already experiencing the consequences of, and which we will only notice even more because they force us to change the way we adapt, transport, live and consume. I'll get back to some of those things. But before I get that far, I would like to address a subject that I think we are not talking about at all enough, and that is: what are Denmark's visions for future European cooperation? For although the Minister mentioned many things in his statement, I did not really get a sense of what the government's overall vision and plan for EU cooperation looks like, and I miss that. The question is also whether this is not exactly what we need right now, in other words a fundamental discussion of what we want with European cooperation, not just what we can get out of cooperation, but also what ambitions and visions we want to bring into cooperation. The alternative vision of EU cooperation is crystal clear: we want Denmark to use its position in the EU to draw Europe in a more sustainable direction. This applies at both economic, social and environmental levels. However, this is also true in relation to the spread of human rights and equality, where Denmark has used its voice in the past to take the lead. That voice is very much needed, because the European Union is certainly not infallible. That is how far we agree with both the Enhedslisten, the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party. The European Union can and must be improved, but if the European Union did not exist, we would, in our opinion, have to invent it, because we live in a global world, and that is also why, in the alternative, we say that the alternative to the European Union is a better European Union. When we say this, it is because of the simple fact that the European Union is probably the only organisation in the world that has the potential to lead in global reforms that can bring about a serious sustainable transformation and a positive change at global level. But that change doesn't happen by itself. This requires political priorities and investment, and it requires leadership from progressive countries that Denmark could be. In 2015, however, it was sometimes difficult to see the progressive approach to the EU that Danish governments normally have. Just take up an urgent problem that we are facing today: the refugee crisis. These days, around 6,500 refugees have been stranded at the Greek-Macedonian border because the Member States cannot agree on how we should distribute and accept them. Paradoxically, otherwise, the European Union has presented a common key which is, indeed, a key to achieving a fairer distribution. Nevertheless, Denmark was unfortunately one of the first countries to refuse to take an active part in the work of developing this key, and this shows very well that these are not solutions that we lack, but rather political courage and willingness to apply the solutions. The fact that the EU has not managed to solve the task is therefore primarily due to the fact that countries such as Denmark have not shown their willingness to accept the common solutions that the European Commission, among others, has. I've come with you. In the alternative, we are concerned about what the consequences of lack of political leadership and courage will be in the long term. We already see that several countries have begun to close down on themselves, and that is the wrong development. 2015 was a major climate year with COP 21 in Paris as the great event. Unfortunately, the climate has not been mentioned as much in the government's statement as it should, and that is a shame because the climate situation is serious and requires both European ambition and, above all, leadership. The world we leave to our children and grandchildren will be the product of the choices we make today. So instead of pushing the bill on to the next generations, we need to take advantage of the COP 21 element to push society in a different, much more responsible and sustainable direction too in the EU. Because we have only one planet A. We do not have a planet B. Therefore, we simply have to turn up the ambitions in the EU and in Denmark if we are to succeed in turning down temperatures and CO2 According to several NGOs, the EU is already failing the Paris climate agreement, and I very much hope that the government will address this issue and push for a much more serious course at the forthcoming EU summits. This year we have also seen how the peoples of Europe have reacted with extreme frustration and dissatisfaction over the ongoing TTIP negotiations, and I must say that I fully share the frustration and dissatisfaction. This is not least due to the lack of openness which darkens the negotiations. Because, despite the fact that the agreement is about virtually everything that can be regulated, the negotiations are so closed and opaque that we do not know about the environmental, health and social consequences they may have, just as it is questionable if the agreement means the exclusion of developing countries, for example, which need access to European markets. This is not least serious because we know that the Americans and their interest groups are pushing very hard to relax European environmental and food standards. These are standards that we would like to uphold in the alternative, because more free trade must not be at the expense of people and the environment, and so we would like to call on the Minister to get on the ground and work seriously in order to have much more transparency in these negotiations. Studio rooms where we sit and read with duct tape to our mouths are not enough. Finally, I would like to return to my point that European cooperation should not always be about what each country, for example Denmark, can get out of it. That discussion is all too often about the economy and narrow national interests, and it shadows the fact that the European Union is much more than the growth project described and emphasised by the government. The European Union was, and is, above all, a community of solidarity and a peace project which, moreover, has the potential to become a lever for a global green transition, and I therefore hope that the Danish line of working for a stronger European Union, which dares to address the global challenges, will be re-emerged so that European cooperation does not fall into protectionist action or easy solutions, as one might fear right now. We are at a crossroads right now: do we want to invest in a strong, solidarity and progressive European Union, in cooperation that can act as a positive response to common global challenges, or do we want to put our trust in national solutions that may not have the necessary impact and impact that we want? I very much hope that the government wants the first, because the alternative does.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303172613	There is one with a brief comment. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303172618	I would like to thank Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist for his speech. There is one question on which I find it interesting to hear the rapporteur's opinion, and that is the experience gained in the alternative from Greece, in other words Greece, which chose a government which wanted a policy different from that dictated by the European Union. Then they put another policy to a referendum. It gained an overwhelming majority, despite the fact that the money and all possible pressure are being closed down, and then the elections came for the government that was there. Either we have to accept the dictatorships of the European Union or we have to break with the European Union. The government that was there then chose to accept the dictatorships of the European Union, and since then there have been massive cuts, even more than there were before, and there has been misery and misery, but of course also great protests and demonstrations, general strikes, the biggest that we have had for many years. What is interesting is: What would the alternative have done in that situation? Would the policy of reducing the Greek population have been implemented, or would it have been said 'no' to the European Union, even if the European Union's decisions were formally democratic and based on a majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303172738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303172741	I do not know all the details that have been in those negotiations, and therefore I cannot answer what the alternative had done in that situation, but I can say what the experience of what happened and the process that was has led me to think, and that is that there is a serious problem with the way the institutions operate. That is also why, right now, we are trying to enter into active European cooperation with other forces by saying: how can we change the European Union, how can we democratise and create greater transparency? Because that is precisely what I think the whole process around Greece stressed there is a need for, namely that decisions cannot be taken behind closed doors where we do not know what is going on, where governments are barely allowed to communicate, but that is on the premises of officials. That is why changes are urgently needed in the way the institutions are doing, and that is also what we are trying to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303172828	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303172830	The things the rapporteur says are entirely in agreement with, and that is also one of the things I myself have worked for in the European Parliament when I was there, so this is really something we can stand together and fight for at home too. But that just doesn't solve the problem of what the Greeks should have done. Then it can be said that this is such a discussion about Greece and that is a little past. The problem is that exactly the same thing happened in Greece is now happening in Portugal, where a left-wing government has been elected after the European Union tried to pressure the President not to accept that government, but it chose a left-wing government that finally came to power, and it is now faced with the same EU demands and that is to say. the same problem. To implement the European Union's policy towards its own people and to create more misery and misery than is already the case, or to say no to the European Union. That answer cannot wait 10 years or 20 years. That is an answer here and now, and I would just call on you, if you have not discussed it in the Alternative, to discuss it because I think it is quite crucial in terms of how we view the European Union problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303172929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303172931	Of course, I think it is crucial that individual countries can also come up with solutions to their problems and get into that cooperation. Now that you have chosen to have the same currency, which is part of monetary union, you have to be able to come in with your own solutions to how this is to be resolved and it has to be resolved politically. I do not see that the answer is that Portugal should turn its back or step out now I must stop using the turn turn my back on because it fell the questioner to the chest before. I do not think the answer is to withdraw from cooperation. I believe that the answer is to fight politically to do something about it and that perhaps the Portuguese Government is putting its foot down, what the Greek Government apparently did not do enough, when they want to have the dialogue with their partners, that it should not be through officials or in closed meetings. No, they want to have a dialogue with the other governments within the euro group and find solutions together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303173019	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now, so we will continue in the series of speeches. The next one is sir. Emrah Tuncer from the Radical Left. Here you go for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303173030	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for the presentation on the development of cooperation in 2015. As stated in the statement, 2015 became a year of trials. A number of exceptional crises and continuing conflicts challenged EU countries and cooperation. The whole future of Europe is at stake in the coming weeks. If the refugee crisis is to be resolved, a much more active and targeted Danish foreign policy is needed. The Danish Government should therefore have one crucial priority right now: finding common solutions to the refugee crisis in the European Union so that we can maintain both our humanitarian responsibility and our ability to move freely across Europe's borders. The weather is getting warmer, and in a few weeks' time, the flow of refugees will probably go up through Europe again. It is now time for a common European solution to be landed, and Denmark has a responsibility to do so. We cannot solve the refugee crisis alone. Despite talking about the need for a European solution to the refugee crisis, the responses in Denmark and a number of other EU countries have so far been national. In Denmark we establish border controls, we have made it possible to take the personal possessions of refugees, and we neighbor them in tent camps and provide them with poor services to live for all in an attempt to scare away as many refugees as possible. We think this is unworthy. At the same time, it is also extremely expensive, because national border controls make it significantly more difficult to travel, work and act across European borders. Re-establishment of national border controls throughout Europe will cost 7-15 billion in France alone. kr. in the short term. In the long term, it will restrict trade between countries by somewhere between 10% and 20%, which costs the French economy alone more than 75 billion. kr. Everyone knows that it is neither easy nor simple to find common European ground in this area, but that is precisely why the Danish Government should join in as part of the solution. Denmark should take the lead in making words into action. The alternative, i.e. no European solution, is not a real alternative, as we all agree on. Instead of destroying Denmark's reputation with advertisements in Lebanese newspapers and confiscating jewelry, the government should raise its eyes and help solve the refugee crisis. Denmark should help to stop the financing of the wars in the Middle East. Control over the large flows of refugees will only win when we put an end to the current conflicts in the Middle East. The wars are all complex in their history, but they are largely orchestrated, funded and governed by major regional powers in the Middle East, which finance their involvement with oil money that our oil and gas imports supply. In addition, there is a need to strengthen the EU's external borders, and the most important tool is common European reception centres and cooperation on proper and effective conditions at external borders. This must ensure that everyone is treated dignifiedly and that from the outset we can distinguish between refugees and economic migrants so that the former can be helped and the latter sent home. The recipient countries simply cannot deal with the large number of refugees alone. Denmark should therefore provide assistance for the creation of a European refugee rapid reaction force and European border and coastal guarding, both in the form of funds and personnel. It would send a strong signal that even a small country like Denmark dares take responsibility for and can make a difference in terms of creating a real solution. Denmark should also continue to work towards the joint distribution of refugees between countries. It sends out an incredibly bad signal when, on the one hand, the government recognises that a common distribution system is necessary but, on the other hand, does not believe that Denmark should participate. Of course, we can and must be involved, and if a common distribution system ends up replacing the obsolete arrangements that we now have, it will not be possible for Denmark at all to be outside. Europe needs a common solution to the refugee crisis. The plan exists and political will can make it a reality. In the field of energy, it has been clear in recent years that it does not matter how the world's largest importer of energy, the European Union, chooses to deal with its supply. It is a huge security policy tool that we have used far too little. So, given the geopolitical situation, the EU's major project of the Energy Union is not only crucial for the green transition in Europe, it is also essential for our security and cooperation. For the Radical Left, access to environmentally friendly and safe energy is a prerequisite for modern society and for modern Europe. That is why it is all the more problematic that we do not have a liberal and well-functioning internal market in energy. The situation is that the Member States of the European Community spend hundreds of billions of euros every year on imports of oil and gas from countries such as Russia and Saudi Arabia. It has major consequences on several levels. The price level is too high, fossil fuels affect our environment and climate in the wrong direction, and finally, imports represent a real and very serious security policy risk. Quite small signals of our willingness to reduce our dependence can have a major impact on both energy prices and the economy of exporting countries. Why does Denmark not take the lead in the EU and propose to extend the security policy perspective of the Energy Union to cover the Middle East as well? That would be a much-needed and effective signal to the regional great powers. The underlying purpose of the Energy Union is, of course, to make Europe independent of energy imports, specifically of Russia's gas, because it is a much stronger and more strategically usable weapon than gunpowder and bullets for the Russian leader. We can't live with him sitting with the keys to the taps and turning up and down as needed and whims. Back in the 1970s oil crisis, we in Denmark decided to make ourselves independent of unstable energy sources. With the Energy Union, we now have to go through a similar process in the European Union, where we aim to make our common heat, power and production independent of scenarios that we cannot control ourselves. Of course, this requires solidarity and closer cooperation on energy policy at European level, as we have had in the Nordic countries for many years. Overall, therefore, it does not matter how Denmark takes its foreign policy line with the European Union in general and with our closest neighbours in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303173658	We thank the rapporteur. I see that the SF and the Conservative People's Party do not have a rapporteur in the Chamber, so we go directly to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303173718	Thank you for a good and exciting debate, which has to some extent been marked by the fact that the parties have put forward their own position on the EU's views on the situation of cooperation and desires for the new opportunities for cooperation in the future rather than actually related to the statement itself. However, there have been some partial references to the statement itself, but I think I have to say that the debate has been more marked by expressions of opinion than a real relationship with the statement. It's not a problem, it's not a problem. It is not a criticism, it is just a statement. Because if you may think that what I am saying here is perhaps not the answer to all the questions that have been raised, it is more because that is what I had prepared to say. The refugee and migration crisis has been very high on the agenda in the EU since the boat accidents in the Mediterranean in spring 2015. There is no immediate indication that the pressure on the EU will decrease for the time being, and this has been a very intense pressure. More than 1 million refugees entered the EU during 2015, and if no new action is taken, the same number is expected in 2016. Therefore, action at the highest level has been needed in the last year, and it is very likely that this will continue to be the case in the coming year. It says a little about the situation in the European Union that last year 12 meetings of the European Council were held; many of them on migration, but of course also on the situation in Greece. At EU level, a number of measures have been taken to deal with the refugee and migration crisis: an action plan has been adopted with Turkey and one with the African countries, and humanitarian funds for Syria and neighbouring countries have increased. It's just to mention a few. In addition, more urgent efforts are being made in relation to strengthening the EU's external borders and the functioning of hotspots. I believe that we can all agree that, unfortunately, the measures have not so far had a decisive effect on the flow of refugees. Action is still needed and, above all, implementation. For this reason, a summit has also been convened with Turkey on 7 March 2016 with a subsequent meeting between the Heads of State and Government. Migration will also be the main theme of the usual spring summit later in March. There are no easy solutions. It is very clear, but there is a need to find European solutions to the crisis if pressure is to be curbed. There is also a need to find solutions that deal with the basis of the flow of refugees, in other words how to end the conflict in Syria and how to effectively combat ISIL in Iraq and stop their spread in North Africa. Another common theme in 2015 is about the forthcoming referendum in Britain on EU membership. The agreement reached at the European Council in February is good and a good start for the British referendum. The agreement provides solutions in areas such as the relationship between euro countries and non-euro countries, competitiveness, better regulation and the issue of sovereignty, not least the strengthened role of national parliaments, and confirmation of the interpretation of the words of an ever closer union to be found in the Treaties. The interpretation is that an ever closer union is only what the countries want and that no country is forced or obliged either legally or politically to go further than that country itself wishes. The agreement also contains some solutions in the area of welfare and freedom of movement. This is among other things. has been agreed that it is possible to index the children's cheque to EU citizens if the children do not live in the same country as the parents who have earned entitlement to the allowance. It has also been agreed that the much-mentioned Metockdom of 2008 will be rolled back. It is no secret that the government has strongly supported Britain's efforts in the negotiations. There are many reasons for this: Denmark and Britain have had an historically close relationship; we often look at things the same way, as has been confirmed by a meeting with the British EU Minister, David Lidington, earlier today; and we from the government think that an EU without Britain will be a weakened EU economic, cultural and political. The British Prime Minister believes that this agreement will enable him to win the referendum on 23 June. I actually believe that most Danes and hopefully everyone in this Chamber hopes he can. An EU without Britain is, with Danish eyes, an EU where we will be more alone with our views. I do not want that, and that is why, of course, I hope for a British 'yes'. However, although the agreement contains very good elements that provide solutions to issues for which we in Denmark have been fighting for many years, we must remember that they will disappear if it becomes a 'no' in Britain. A 'no' would also throw the European Union into an even more difficult position with a Member State wishing to leave cooperation. It is a new territory for everyone, and no one knows exactly what will be agreed afterwards. At the European Council, there were difficult negotiations where several of the points on which Britain wanted solutions were under pressure. This was particularly true in the area of welfare, on the question of an ever closer union. Therefore, it was important from the Danish side that we should act as a counterweight and work to stick to the text that was on the table and which in a number of areas provided solutions for Denmark. The indexing of the children's cheque succeeded in keeping to the text of an ever closer union, which is formulated in round terms, so that it is useful for, among other things, Denmark. Britain needed to be mentioned explicitly in the text. I do not see the same reason why Denmark should be mentioned and have a special text in that particular area. Denmark's relationship with the EU is already regulated. It is through our protocols, and there is also the fact that the text of the agreement quite clearly states that there are different ways of integrating different Member States. This also applies to Denmark. We have always interpreted the Treaty in this way, and we are still doing so. In general, the next few months can be quite crucial for the European Union. Migration problems, continued economic recovery in Greece and the rest of the EU, the creation of growth and employment, the British referendum and the fight against terrorism will affect the coming months. Fortunately, we can see that the EU has a good track record to find solutions when it burns on. I think this time, too, will succeed. We face challenges in Europe that no country can solve on its own. There is a need for European solutions to the challenges • not national actions that prevent companies from shipping goods across borders or actions that cause conflicts between neighbouring countries. Regardless of the many prophecies of doom that have been hailed over the European Union, we must not allow current and, indeed, major challenges to shred the results that the European Union has produced, or forget the importance that the European Union will have in the future for the well-being of Danes and the conditions of businesses in countless areas. The European Union is, without comparison, the international forum that we can use to promote Danish foreign policy interests best and to ensure the best possible conditions for the well-being of the Danes. We are a small open economy and our prosperity is created through cooperation and trade. That is why we must safeguard an EU that is in line with Danish interests and always ensure that we make the most of the cooperation. This is the guide for our approach to EU policy, both when we are in the wind and in the wind. I have no doubt that constructive cooperation is the best way to ensure that Danish interests are taken into account. That is why we are actively and results-oriented into European cooperation. However, this does not mean that we are naive or uncritical of the European Union, and because a proposal is an EU proposal, it does not mean that it is a good proposal, just as one might say that a proposal from the Folketing does not necessarily mean that it is a good proposal. We usually have shared opinions on this. We do, too, when something comes from the European Union. On the part of the government, we are looking at the substance of the proposal and not its sender. We believe, however, that it is best for Denmark to be where the decisions are taken. That is why it is in our interest to be central to EU cooperation. The geography here is essential. The European Union is and remains our immediate area. We are in the middle of the European continent if you take the route all the way from Svalbard down to Sicily. This is the area with which we deal most with this is the area with which we have the most culturally in common, and that is why we must resolve the crises together when it really matters. The development of the European Union is a good example of the fact that we are increasing, that cooperation is widening and that the countries bordering the external borders of the European Union actually have a wish, a dream of joining the European Community. These are big words, but let us look at what comes out of cooperation in the European Union from time to time, namely the four freedoms of the European Union: the free movement of goods, services, capital and labour. The single market is one of the EU's greatest successes, and a study from Bertelsmann Stiftung shows that Denmark has enjoyed the single market more than any other country, if measured in income per year. citizen. In fact, Denmark's GDP is per capita. citizens grew by EUR 500 per year over the last 20 years as a result of European integration. And it is estimated that 500,000 Danish jobs are directly linked to the internal market. When it comes to new knowledge, EU membership is also very important for Denmark. The EU's research and innovation funds are an invaluable and indispensable part of the Danish research budget. EU research programmes initiate a wide range of activities that would otherwise not take place. They also offer researchers, universities, institutions and authorities from Denmark the opportunity to work together in the best possible way. I am particularly pleased that a new statement by the European Commission shows that Denmark is the Member State that collects the second most money per year. citizens for projects through the EU's new Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme. This is a good example of the fact that EU cooperation is a win-win project and that a result-oriented Danish approach gives us good results. There are over 10,000 Danes who have used the new Erasmus+ programme in 2014, which was the first year of the programme. The fact that the European Union is making demands on energy and labelling of products in the European area brings with it significant consequences. Buying more energy-efficient products in households, businesses and businesses has meant a total energy saving in the EU of 100 billion. euro. That's about $3,500. per European household. The European Union sets the standard and leads in a wide range of areas. So did we when the world met at COP21 in Paris in December. If the European Union had not taken the lead, I would venture to claim that a global agreement was questionable and certainly less ambitious than what we achieved. At the same time, the government is not blind to the fact that there are areas where the EU can function better. I have mentioned migration, which is a good example. I think a lot of Danes look at the EU and think: Why can't you find a solution that works? But you are wrong if you think that the EU is just a machine driving outwards. Since its inception in 2014, the Juncker Commission has had an ambition to clean up the many regulations so that it will be easier to understand different EU rules and ensure that the EU takes care of only what is added value in their work in the future. Therefore, there is not so much new legislation coming from the European Union as we have seen in the past, and what is coming is far, far more justified than in the past. However, it is clear that the Member States also have a responsibility for how they implement new EU legislation in their own countries. It is a priority for the government to show that we are implementing EU legislation in the most appropriate and transparent way in which we involve businesses and organisations to a greater extent. The EU's internal market is basically a huge gain for Danish companies because it ensures a level playing field combined with a high level of protection. So our national responsibility is to ensure that we do not impose more obligations on companies in implementation at home than is necessary. That responsibility has been assumed by the government and we stand by it. Just a few comments on some of the points that were raised. I do not share the desire of the Social Democrat rapporteur to pursue a more lenient fiscal policy, nor do I share Mr Gundelach's view. Søren Søndergaard's assessment that some countries are in trouble, for example. Italy, Spain, Greece because they have been squeezed into an EU table. On the contrary, I share the view of many others that the problems of countries such as the United States, Japan and the United States must be solved. Italy, Spain and Greece, which indeed have a high level of debt, are due to the fact that they have not implemented the necessary reforms. They have actually stopped halfway, participated in some actions and then not implemented enough to get the economies going. If you look at other countries that have implemented reforms in full, for example. A country such as Ireland will see that employment and growth have been speeded up very quickly. I do not believe that there is an alternative to the European Union, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard laid it out. I think a lot more like Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist believes that the alternative to the European Union is a better European Union, and that is what we must strive for. We must strive to create a European Union that is relevant and present, that is workable and that takes care of things that move something in the everyday lives of citizens. I do not believe that anyone will be more EU-positive of symbols, hymns, markings or signs on the roads. I believe that you will become more EU-positive if you can see that the European Union is making a difference. Perhaps, with some of the examples I mentioned earlier, how many Danish jobs depend on the internal market, how much the European Union has meant in terms of saving energy efficiency, how much the European Union means in relation to increased prosperity in Denmark, should be better able to tell about the positive elements that the European Union is contributing to. I am not going to say so much to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, as he is not here at the moment. We all have a lot to do. I just want to say quite quietly that I believe that the 200 000 Hungarians who left Hungary to Austria and Yugoslavia 60 years ago this year are deeply grateful that they did not receive a welcome at the border as the refugees who have come to Hungary this year have received from the Hungarian Government. And sometimes I think it is appropriate to appeal to a little bit of historical awareness, including among the Hungarian Government, and it is not about whether or not to protect its border, and not about whether or not to register within the Schengen acquis, but about the fact that it should be the responsibility of a nation to pay back to other people who are in need at times the hospitality that its citizens have experienced in the past. And I welcome the fact that in Denmark, despite the challenges we have faced with refugees and migrants, we do not give refugees a reception such as that given by the Hungarian Government to those who have come to their borders in 2016. The European Union is a project that I am proud of Denmark is part of. The European Union is a trade project, a level playing field project, but it is also the project of the citizen, the consumer and the worker, and I believe that if, as I and the government do, we want the European Union to have a positive sound in the ears of citizens, consumers and workers, we must also try to point out where the European Union is making a positive difference in everyday life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303175444	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. There are three brief comments. The first one is from Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303175449	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. I apologise if the Minister was disappointed that we were not more tangible about the statement. It has been read with great interest, and it is also the one that has been commented on, at least in the speech I made. Such an explanation of course gives the opportunity to look back on what has happened, but it is of course also a look forward to what can happen here in 2016. After all, it is no secret that there is a crisis in the European Union in terms of how cooperation is and how many people want to be part of it. We see in Denmark that we voted 'no' on 3 December, and there is a great debate in Britain, so I fear a little that the big debate for and against maybe a little winds up the debate I would like to have, precisely on what we are going to do with the European Union, as the Minister himself said. So does the government have any plans on how to strengthen the Danish debate on the EU here on land, so that we can move forward in our work on what we are going to do with an EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303175551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303175552	As part of the rapporteurs will be aware, after the referendum and the outcome, we have started a series of meetings in which we try to discuss how to move forward. Some of the proposals mentioned by Mrs Christina Egelund on whether or not to have a mandate in the Chamber will be assessed and discussed jointly, and we have of course also invited Enhedslisten to attend the study tour to Brussels. Søren Søndergaard must have refreshed some things on 14 and 15 March. There is still no sign of Enhedslisten, so there is room yet to come with. So, yes, we are trying to discuss what it is that we have to do to spread the debate out so that the debate is not just something that happens when we have a vote, a parliamentary election, or some random case that pops up a la liquorice spiber or something that with justification, or in this case not with justification, creates a picture that the European Union is interfering in large and small. So we hope that we can find a model in which we have an ongoing, constructive and critical discussion about the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303175700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303175702	So a curious question about the negotiations on the Great Britain Agreement. I know that part of it was done at Prime Minister level, but is there such a fundamental discussion among the Foreign Ministers of the European Union about this particular issue that we are experiencing such a little unrest about the project, challenges about whether we can solve the things we are facing? Is there a discussion about where it is that you want to take the EU as a cooperation project?
ParlaMint-DK_20160303175730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303175731	There are discussions in foreign affairs circles, but since a number of countries have what the previous government had, namely dedicated European ministers, the discussion is also taking place in what is known as the General Affairs Council, General Affairs Council. General matters sound so flat, but that is where we take up the EU's internal affairs and the vision of the European Union and discuss it, and there we also discuss where we are going in preparation for the European Council meetings. Every time they have Council meetings, we have the discussion before, so we are also in the discussions on what the future is for the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303175815	Then we'll go over to the next one, and that's sir. Claus Kvist Hansen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303175820	Thank you for your statement and thank you for the Minister's speech here. Now the Minister must forgive me that I may have misunderstood something, but when I sit and read the passages of the statement on the European Union's economy, I find it so here and here and in several places expressing the confidence that the Minister has in the way in which the crisis has been handled, to the EU economy, its resilience, etc. etc. Then it is that I am beginning to ask myself whether the Minister is not actually quite satisfied today that Denmark is not part of the euro cooperation. That is my first question. The second question is about stability in the European Union, which is described here in the statement on page 2 of the second paragraph. Does the Minister believe that it is the government's support parties, i.e. the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance, that are at risk of affecting stability in Europe and in Denmark? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303175915	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303175917	No, I do not believe that the Liberal Alliance or the Danish People's Party risk affecting stability in Europe. But what the sentence says is that there is a tendency for parties wishing to leave the European Union, for example. UKIP in the UK has gained more and more support. And it is clear that if they are given the support to implement what they want, namely the secession of Britain from the European Union, it will affect stability. It's a fact. It can then be a positive influence from some to others, and it can be a negative impact from the perspective of others, but it will then affect stability if parties whose aim is to take countries out of the European Union are given more and more support. In the second part, I have to say that as the euro has worked in recent years, Denmark has had an advantage in being outside the euro. I believe that in the long term, even in terms of political influence, we can have an interest in being involved. However, as is currently the case, Denmark has had an economic advantage in being outside the euro.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303180027	Then we move on to the next brief remark, and it comes from Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303180038	Thank you. I am not going to prolong the debate more than necessary, so I would just like to ask the Minister to answer the two outstanding questions following this debate. Firstly, I would like to ask the Minister to confirm that it is a purely one-sided Danish decision whether or not we want to be in Europol. If the majority of the Danish Parliament and the majority of the Danish people so wish, it is a purely one-sided decision whether we want to be in Europol. It's not something we should ask anyone about. It will require 22 kroner, or how much it will cost, for a stamp for a letter that we will send down to Brussels. I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm that. Secondly, I would ask for an answer, because the Minister for Finance was unable to answer it yesterday and asked us so kindly to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs about it. So I would ask the Foreign Minister to clarify whether there are any demands for that agreement with Turkey for 3 billion. I should like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet taken a decision on this matter. in relation to the refugees who are coming and what the consequences are if that does not happen, in other words if there is no respect for human rights in relation to refugees who are coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303180158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303180200	It is the case that Denmark has been offered an option in the Treaty of Lisbon. We can choose to what extent we choose to make use of the electoral system. So if a majority in the Folketing were to choose the model to say that we would use the electoral system only on the point of Europol, then it would be possible either by five sixths majority in the Folketing or by a new referendum confirming that exactly on that point we want to participate. That is the really, really beautiful thing about the electoral system that was adopted by the then government, namely that Denmark has the right to choose what we want to participate in and the right to opt out. It is true, quite well from the point of view of the then government, that such an opt-in system was chosen, so that, unlike other countries, we have a luxury version in which we can choose. I would actually have liked, if I had the opportunity to ask questions the other way, to get a clear answer as to whether Enhedslisten would support it if there were such a time when the opt-in system would be used, so that we are included in Europol, and thus binding, so that if Enhedslisten would support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303180317	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303180320	So, I think it is a problem that the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not give a helping hand to the Minister for Finance and answers the question when, in a debate about giving millions, billions, trillions to Turkey, the Minister for Finance is here on his crying knees and asks us to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs a specific question. We all know the Minister for Finance when he is on his crying knees. I would urge the Foreign Minister to do so. If the Foreign Minister then wants me to go to the platform for the second time and take up the discussion that the Foreign Minister is putting forward, then the Foreign Minister should just say so. I'm ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303180359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303180400	If sir... Søren Søndergaard took the floor in the second round, I would be more excited to hear whether one could come closer to an answer than the non-answer, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard gave earlier on the question of whether the Enhedslisten will support Europol or not. This is, in fact, a question we have been calling for for much longer than yesterday's question of whether there are guarantees in the agreement with the European Union and Turkey in relation to human rights. I think that is an issue which I would like to return to in writing, so not just those who listen to it now, but the whole of the Folketing, for example. through the Committee on European Affairs or the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303180440	No one else wanted to speak, and that is why the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303180452	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 15 March 2016. It is first the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Søren Søndergaard, for reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303180521	Thank you, President. I would like to explain this question. The reason for the question is developments in Turkey in particular over the last year, and the starting point is that developments have clearly moved in the wrong direction. Over the last few months, we have even seen a dramatic deterioration in the situation. This is a situation that is marked by massive attacks on freedom of the press, the imprisonment of editors, wild accusations of anti-state activity, threats to journalists and even killings, as we have seen here just over the past week or was it this weekend? We have seen how the Turkish regime has more or less directly supported the Islamic State. Ironically, some of the editors were imprisoned because they documented how the Turkish military had sent material to the Islamic State. We ourselves have experienced the release of a Danish citizen who was suspected of committing an attempted murder in Denmark and then disappeared to the Islamic State. We have experienced violent acts of terror. The vast majority and the most violent of the acts of terrorism have been directed against the left and the Kurds, but we have also seen a terrorist action in Ankara recently against Turkish soldiers, where there were also civilian victims. We have seen attacks on refugees coming from the border with Syria, and we have also seen how the Turkish Government has carried out threats against the Kurds in Syria and even bombarded the Kurds inside Syria, in other words inside another country. That is all that means that we are faced with the situation that such an important and so important and in so many ways fantastic country like Turkey is now facing the risk of going into a civil war, something that we have been warning about for a long time. It is clear that Turkey is an ally to Denmark in NATO and that we also have a number of relations with Turkey. It is of course essential that we also discuss such a serious development in such a country. That is the reason for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303180807	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. Then it is the minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303180820	Thank you for the opportunity in this Chamber to discuss recent developments in Turkey. This is an issue that we have sometimes also talked about in the committees recently, because Turkey is a matter of great concern to both the questioner and myself, and the government attaches great importance to respect for fundamental human rights in Turkey. The issue of the rule of law and fundamental rights is regularly raised in Denmark's dialogue with Turkey, where the government clearly expresses Danish concerns and stresses the need for a positive development, and the government intends to continue to do so. At the same time, the government believes that dialogue with Turkey on general political issues in Turkey is best conducted in a common European and international context. Here, the European Union has a very special role, both through the EU's common foreign policy and as a result of Turkey's status as an EU candidate country, which makes the EU's enlargement process the natural framework for political dialogue with a view to Turkey's fulfilment and compliance with European standards. In its latest country report on Turkey, which came as part of the enlargement package on 10 November 2015, the European Commission notes that, following important progress made in previous years, Turkey has been characterised by a standstill and, in some cases, backward steps, including a deterioration in the freedom of assembly and freedom of expression and the conditions of the media, the breakdown of peace negotiations with the representatives of the Kurdish minority and a worsening security situation related thereto, political interference in the police and judiciary, and a generally reduced pace of reform. The Council expressed a very clear criticism of this on 15 December, in the context of the EU's conclusions on EU enlargement, which we clearly supported in the preparation for the Danish Council conclusions. The government considers the enlargement process to be the best framework for dialogue with Turkey in these important areas. In November the Commission recommended the early opening of six chapters of the negotiations with Turkey and one of them, namely Chapter 17 on economic and monetary policy, has subsequently been opened. This is an approach supported by the government, given that we in Denmark give particular priority to the opening of Chapter 23 on courts and fundamental rights and Chapter 24 on justice, security and freedom, that is, chapters that focus precisely on democracy and fundamental rights. With the opening of these chapters, there at present. If we are blocked by Cyprus, we can address this kind of challenge with greater weight in Turkey. Not least the issue of freedom of the press and freedom of the media in Turkey goes to the heart of the major issue of Turkey's compliance with basic European standards in key areas of democracy, the rule of law and human rights, that is. The Copenhagen criteria. As mentioned above, the European Commission's latest country report indicates that progress has been made in the area of freedom of assembly and expression, including media conditions, in Turkey, not least in the context of the parliamentary elections of 7 June and 1 November 2015. The situation regarding the conditions of journalists in Turkey was recently given extra attention when the editor-in-chief and a leading journalist of the government critical newspaper Cumhuriyet were detained at the end of November 2015 on charges of, among others. espionage and propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation because the newspaper brought a story about alleged Turkish arms supplies to groups in Syria. The detention and the accusation of life imprisonment by the prosecutor have been strongly criticised by the European Union, the Council of Europe and others. It was therefore positive that, on 25 February, Turkey's own Constitutional Court knew the imprisonment illegal and contrary to the right of the two journalists, among others. freedom of expression and personal security, after which they were released by the authorities. The accusations against the two journalists, however, remain so far, and this is a matter which will, of course, be followed closely by Denmark and the European Union. As regards the media situation in Turkey, I would also like to mention that Denmark, as part of the Danish neighbourhood assistance, supports the development of an independent, open and free media environment in Turkey under a regional media and democratisation programme. The aim is to promote democracy and human rights by strengthening freedom of expression, including the ability of the media to play an active, impartial and professional role in the dissemination of news releases and analyses. Another example of the sometimes cramped conditions of freedom of expression came in January in connection with the so-called Declaration of Peace signed by 1,128 academics calling for an end to the fighting in south-east Turkey and a return to the peace talks between the government and the Kurdish minority. The declaration accuses the government of being behind the intended and planned slaughter and a massacre, and it has given rise to harsh remarks from among others. the Turkish President, just as the Turkish police and the prosecution have started an investigation to establish whether the declaration infringes Turkish law. The High Representative of the European Union has expressed deep concern about the Turkish authorities' actions against the co-signatory academics and has clearly pointed out that freedom of expression is a key element of the Copenhagen criteria, which Turkey is expected to meet. The very declaration by the 1,128 academics and the Turkish authorities' reaction also, unfortunately, reflects the fact that the Kurdish question is not only complex, but that it largely shares the waters in Turkey. Turkey, like other countries, reserves the right to take the necessary security measures to combat terrorism and violent extremism in that country. The PKK has taken responsibility for a large number of terrorist attacks against Turkey and Turkish citizens and has made use, among others, of: suicide attacks and roadside bombs as well as as something new initiated extensive operations in both cities and neighborhoods. Against this background, the Turkish security authorities have issued temporary curfews in certain cities, surrounded by PKK militants' control, where the authorities are denied access, and arrested persons suspected of being members of the PKK. It is crucial that the security authorities in that process should show the greatest consideration for civilians and act with proportionality in their fight against terrorism. Since December 2015, the Turkish security forces have conducted operations, in particular in the cities of Silopi and Cizre in Sirnak province and the district of Sur in central Diyarbakir. In these places, militant groups, primarily from the PKK youth group YDG-H, have tried to take control of entire towns or districts, have banished all Turkish officials, dug lands and trenches and proclaimed the thus isolated areas as autonomous Kurdish cantons. On 29 January this year, the Prime Minister announced that the security operations in Silopi have been completed and that the area has been quoted as being cleared of militants, and many escaped residents have allegedly now begun to return to the city. On 13 February the security operations in Cizre were also completed and, according to the Prime Minister, the Turkish security forces had now regained control of the majority of Sur district in Diyarbakir. The Government thus maintained that the operations would continue for as long as necessary to eradicate PKK militants in the south-east, and according to the Turkish press, the city of Idil in Sirnak Province and a city in Mardin Province are the next targets for security operations against the PKK. On the international side, not least on the part of the European Union, the need for all parties to descale the conflict and resume peace negotiations as soon as possible, as this is the only viable way forward to bring about a sustainable solution to the Kurdish issue in Turkey, and the European Union has clearly pointed out that in its fight against terrorism Turkey must fully respect its obligations under international law, including in relation to human rights and humanitarian law. On the part of the government, we ourselves have, on an ongoing basis and with the European Union, clearly called for a rapid return to the peace process. In this context, we have expressed our concern at a negative spiral of violence in the conflict between Turkey and the PKK and, in this context, also called for proportionality in Turkey's military response to the terrorist acts of the PKK. The government is in contact on the issue, both at political and at official level, in addition to the Turkish Government itself. Approx. 2.6 million refugees from Syria in Turkey and estimated an additional 300,000 refugees and migrants from other countries. Of course, this is a huge challenge and strain, even for a country of Turkey's size. In January 2016, following the conclusion of the EU-Turkey Action Plan in November 2015, Turkey adopted a series of measures aimed, on the one hand, at reducing the number of Syrian refugees entering Turkey from third countries in the form of a visa requirement for Syrians not coming directly from Syria and, on the other hand, at improving the living conditions of Syrians staying in Turkey through increased access to education and the possibility of work permits. In this respect, it is fundamental to recall that the European Union and Turkey must and must work together to limit the flow of migration towards Europe and that this must be done in accordance with the joint action plan that we adopted at the EU-Turkey Summit on 29 November last year. In the EU's cooperation with Turkey in the area of migration, respect for fundamental human rights is central. It may harm them, even
ParlaMint-DK_20160303181849	I would also like to thank the Minister for explaining the situation in Diyarbakır. We shall now proceed to the debate, and the first word is given to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303181905	Thank you. Firstly, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I think that on long stretches it was very much in line with the reality that we see in Enhedslisten. Of course, one assessment may be made, but I do not think so, because I think it was a good thing that the Minister said things so clearly. But there is probably still a discussion about whether the hen or egg came first, and there is a discussion about how to move forward. I participated in the great newroz, i.e. New Year's celebration, in March 2015 in Diyarbakır or Amed in Kurdish. There were approx. One million people. I didn't count them, it may be there were only 999.999, but there were about. One million people. And there was a party atmosphere. When a speech was read by Abdullah Öcalan, who is in prison, in Kurdish and in Turkish, there was complete silence. And what was that speech? It was a speech that was about continuing negotiations. It was a speech about continuing the peace process; it was a speech about the fact that now there was an opportunity to move forward. It was also the mood, a mood of joy. Unlike other times when I've been there in similar situations where it's ended in tear gas and trouble etc., this ended in party and color. It was March 2015. But why didn't it go on like that? In fact, at the same time, the Turkish Government went out and said that it had now agreed to launch negotiations with the Kurdish counterpart, the PKK, who wanted to set up some forum where the negotiations could take place. But then President Erdogan went out and announced that he had never heard of it; it was not something he knew anything about. He was then told that he had been sitting in all the meetings where it had been adopted, but yet he said: I do not know anything about that, I shall not be in any negotiations. From that time on, the conflict was escalated. The first serious escalation came in Suruc, where 35 young socialists were blown up after a suicide bomber had passed one security guard from the Turkish police after another. I myself have been the place where the bomb went off, I know how much we were searched, but a suicide bomber could go in and sit down and blow up 35 people. It is true that it was answered by some groups associated with the PKK in assassinating two police officers who they accused of being responsible for the suicide bomber coming through. This is absolutely not acceptable, but it's just important to understand that there's a connection in these things. Since then, Erdogan has systematically tried to get a confrontation. Many interpret this as a desire to have a confrontation up to the June elections in order to bring the nationalists to their side. It did not succeed, and then the confrontations continued up to the November elections. I myself was an election observer in the November elections and I helped formulate the resolution made by the OSCE election mission, an election mission which, of course, had only to say that it could well be that the elections were fair in the sense that the votes were counted correctly, but the whole election campaign had not been because there had been no democracy in the election campaign. There had been a ban on meetings in the Kurdish territories, editors had been arrested, newspapers had been closed. The next day, or two days later, the same newspapers, which had been a newspaper of opposition, now featured the front pages where they hailed President Erdogan and so on. There has been a perfectly clear pattern in this, and that pattern is a pattern for the Turkish Government. That is why I think it is necessary not only to describe the situation, but also to say some things clearly to the Turkish Government. For example: We must clearly say that they must say that there is no point in saying that you can do anything, you can violate anything, you can ignore judgments, because that does not have any consequences. And then I fully agree with the Minister that then we must say to all the forces in Turkey, without exception, that there is only one solution, and that is to find a peaceful solution, and that is why all the forces must be strongly urged to go back on the path of peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303182427	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. Then it is the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303182446	Thank you. Turkey is an important alliance partner for the West, just as Turkey is an official candidate country for the European Union, and in these somewhat difficult times of refugee flows to Europe, Turkey has proved to be a very important player in terms of proposals for resolving the flows of refugees into Europe. Having said that, however, Turkey has also suffered from many unfortunate, sometimes very problematic, developments, as the European Commission's annual report has also pointed out. According to the report "Turkey 2015" the political developments in the country are going the wrong way. The pace of reform has slowed down. A number of actions by the AKP government have questioned relevant areas such as legal certainty, freedom of expression and freedom of assembly. The independence of the courts and the principle of the separation of powers have been undermined, and judges and prosecutors have been under strong political pressure, writes the European Commission, among other things. reaffirms the need for significant efforts to restore and safeguard the independence of the judiciary. Many Turkish journalists, including foreign journalists, have been imprisoned and, unfortunately, the number has increased in the last year, especially among critical journalists. We just heard about the incident with the two Cumhuriyet journalists who were accused of representing a threat to the state, and although they have been released, a number of other journalists are still in prison. As recently as today, we have been able to read that there have been charges against 1,845 citizens. journalists, students, satirists, young people because they have offended the president. So there is something to be done about the rule of law, about human rights, about freedom of expression, about freedom of the press. But in parallel with this, the country has also been threatened by terror. Several of the bomb attacks have been targeted at civilian targets and have killed hundreds of innocent people. Most recently in Ankara, the country's capital and probably the most supervised city in Turkey, close to government buildings and Turkey's military headquarters, a car bomb was triggered with fatal consequences, where 28 people died and many innocent civilians were injured. Earlier this year there have also been attacks in the big city of Istanbul, where 10 lost their lives and 15 were injured. This attack was linked with, among other things: IS, while the recent attack in Ankara was linked to TAK, a Kurdish rebel group that has also been linked to another terrorist attack in Istanbul at Sabiha Gokcen Airport. When I mention all this, it is also to emphasise that it is a great chaos that is ravaged in the country, and the responsibility actually rests with Erdogan and the AKP government is to find lasting solutions in relation to both the Turkish population, minorities, including the Kurdish population, and also religious minorities. It is also important for the Socialists to emphasise that terrorism can never be a means of achieving peace and rights. That is why I also hope that the current government, in which the AKP has the majority, will try to find democratic solutions and will try to find sustainable and sustainable solutions that can create both stability, security and security and also balance the much-pressed freedom of expression and the freedom of the press, which unfortunately is ravaged in the country. It is important to respect human rights, both for the sake of the criteria for accession and, in particular, for the sake of the population, the 80 million people who make up the very diverse population who live in Turkey. So, finally, in my speech, on behalf of a unanimous Parliament, I will read out a proposal for adoption. It is a proposal for adoption supported by the Social Democrats, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Enhedslisten, the Liberal Alliance, the Alternative, the Radical Left, the SF and the Conservatives. Proposal for adoption The Parliament considers that developments in Turkey in the area of the rule of law and in the area of fundamental rights are of serious concern. Turkey should immediately address the major shortcomings identified in the European Commission's country report and comply with the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. Parliament condemns the terrorist attacks in Turkey and stresses the importance of the immediate end of the terrorist violence and the fact that the security measures taken by the Turkish authorities to combat it are carried out with proportionality and with the greatest possible respect for civilians. As regards the Kurdish question, the Folketing urges the parties to resume the peace negotiations in order to find a lasting political solution. • V 28).
ParlaMint-DK_20160303183053	Thank you. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303183105	Thank you. The Danish People's Party basically looks with scepticism at Turkey and its President, Recep Erdogan; whether it is about Turkey's own circumstances. Freedoms for its own citizens, but certainly also in relation to Turkey's respect for foreign citizens and the democratic traditions of the Western world in general. An example we saw in December when the Turkish authorities attacked the Danish journalist Najib Khaja, and this week we hear that Turkish courts are going to launch 1,845 cases in which Turks are accused of insulting President Recep Erdogan. The accused are said to be among others. journalists, satirewriters and also schoolchildren; well, it is worthy of a banana republic. The scepticism of the Danish People's Party also applies to Turkey's apparent perception of Europe as a kind of roof-top table, which is expected to assist Turkey financially for both development but also in relation to the current migrant crisis. The Danish People's Party deplores the fact that in a vain attempt to bribe Turkey to act as a stop valve for migratant influx to Europe, the European Union is putting economic gains in perspective. So far, Turkey's will and ability to limit the migratory flow to Europe has seemed restrained, not to say absent, and the Danish People's Party finds it naive if anyone expects Turkey to contribute to a solution to the migratory flows. In the late 1990s Erdogan said the following: The minarets are our bayonets, the domes our shields and the mosques our barracks, the believers our soldiers. This holy army protects my religion. With this quotation in mind, one might wonder how likely it is that Erdogan feels particularly committed to really helping Europe, no matter how many concessions he makes. Earlier today, there was a lot of talk about Vikings crossed and I think I will end by bringing our ancestors in again, because it is probably the case that our ancestors, the Vikings, would rotate in their graves if they could see how we today completely impotently pay an Islamist to protect our border. The Danish People's Party supports the proposed adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303183316	Thank you, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur on the Left, Mr Seligman. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303183325	Thank you. Turkey is, of course, an important country for the European Union and as a member of NATO there is every reason to keep an eye on Turkey and its political development. As a member of NATO and as a candidate country for the European Union, there are quite different obligations as regards human rights and the general rule of law. Expectations and demands for Turkey must and must be higher. That is why recent developments in Turkey are extremely problematic. The list of human rights violations is long. To begin somewhere, freedom of the press is so much under pressure. Critical journalists are being imprisoned on a large scale and the resulting self-censorship is, of course, becoming more and more widespread. The peace process between the Turkish army and the Kurds has also unfortunately stalled and the negotiating table has been replaced by bloody terrorist attacks and violent actions by the Turkish army. Turkey's dubious role in the conflict in Syria has also exacerbated the situation of the Kurds on both sides of the border. The list of backward steps in Turkey is a long one and, of course, we cannot just stand by and watch as democracy in Turkey goes the wrong way. The Left believes that the best way to address the problems in Turkey is through the European Union. Our voice is much stronger when it is brought forward with the other EU countries. In this way, the criticism will be much more important than if we simply sent a protest to Ankara. However, it is important to remember that Turkey, however you turn and turn it, is an important country for the European Union. The Turkish economy has flourished tremendously over the last two decades, and at the same time Turkey plays an extremely important role in terms of security policy, a role which has certainly not diminished in the context of the civil war in Syria and political instability in Iraq. Very tangiblely, Turkey also plays a key role in the asylum crisis. As a neighbouring country to Syria, Turkey has a responsibility for the hundreds of thousands of people who have crossed the border in connection with the Syrian civil war. Yet it is absolutely essential that we, despite Turkey's role in the asylum crisis, keep Turkey up its international obligations in relation to democracy, human rights and the rule of law. Turkey, like all other members of the Council of Europe, is obliged to respect human rights and comply with the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. Turkey just doesn't always do that. On the contrary, Turkey is the country that has been condemned mostly by the Court of Justice, and there is a long way to go. 2 on the list, Russia. In 2015 alone, Turkey was convicted 79 times. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that issues of democracy and freedoms in Turkey are a very important issue, and that is why it should be high on the agenda both in the European Union and in the Council of Europe, where the Danish delegation from the Folketing has the opportunity to raise questions and keep Turkey up to its obligations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303183654	Thank you, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303183713	Thank you. The developments in Turkey are deeply worrying. The country has been affected by a series of nasty terrorist attacks, which have led to great loss of life. In October last year, for example, Ankara was: Two suicide bombs struck, and it cost more than a hundred people their lives. However, it is not only the risk of terrorism that exacerbates the security situation in that country. Hard fighting is being waged between Turkish military and militant Kurds, especially in cities in south-east Turkey. Thousands of soldiers and heavy artillery and tanks have been deployed to remove so-called resistance pockets in mostly Kurdish areas, and civilians are caught in the crossfire. According to Amnesty International, up to 150 civilian Kurds have lost their lives as innocent victims in the struggle between the armed Kurdish movement, the PKK, and the Turkish security forces. Up to 200,000 civilian Kurds are fleeing internally at a time when Turkey has received over 2 million refugees from Syria. Finally, we see a dull development in Turkish democracy. There is, for example, experience. serious violations of freedom of expression and of the press. Freedom has therefore, in the light of harassment and arrests of critical journalists and academics, downgraded its position on both its priority list of countries' freedom of the press, where Turkey is now in the category not free, and on their overall index, where Turkey has fallen to the status partially free. The image is mottled and depressing. This makes it relevant to emphasise various political points. Firstly, terrorist attacks against Turkey must be condemned and it must be noted that, within the normal framework of the rule of law, Turkey has a whole legal right to fight down people and movements that threaten its citizens and institutions. Secondly, we must insist that Kurds are everything from terrorists to ordinary peaceful people. That is why Turkey's fight against armed forces and groups must be conducted with the necessary proportionality and with much greater respect for the civilians trapped in the areas of conflict than what we are experiencing today. At the same time, the Turkish authorities must work towards normalising the situation and therefore actively seek to resume the peace negotiations. The same requirement applies, of course, to Kurdish decision-makers. Thirdly, Turkey must remain committed to its democratic commitments. The European Commission has pointed out a number of points which must be addressed as soon as possible. One step in maintaining human fundamental rights is, of course, totally unacceptable. Fourthly, of course, we are still ready to contribute to dealing with the difficult situation in which the influx of refugees from Syria and other areas of conflict puts Turkey. We recognise that the problem has a scale and involves burdens far beyond what a single country can cope with on its own. In these words, the Liberal Alliance backs the proposed adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303184033	We also thank Mrs Christina Egelund. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303184049	In the alternative, of course, we are also very concerned about the deteriorating situation in Turkey. In particular, we are concerned that, just as the situation deteriorates so significantly, the European Union is recommending an upgrading of cooperation with Turkey on the management of refugees and immigrants and is not being properly called for improvements to all the problems that exist in the agreement. It is essential that we do not overlook human rights violations. There is no doubt that the human rights and security situation in Turkey has deteriorated in recent years. Recently, the European Commission has made a strong criticism of recent developments in the country. It stresses the need to rebuild the independence of the judiciary and to improve the conditions for freedom of assembly and expression. The negative developments particularly affect political, ethnic and religious minorities in the country. We share the Commission's concern. The security situation has also deteriorated considerably and there is an urgent need for the peace process between Turkey and the Kurdish minority to resume, and here Turkey must take the lead and take the initiative. I am also deeply concerned about Turkey's approach to journalists. In a short time alone we have seen just two Danish journalists who have experienced rejection and even extremely hard treatment. It is estimated that up to 30 journalists are in Turkish prisons and Turkey is at the bottom of the Journalists without Borders press freedom index. The country continues to tighten its line against the press, both in relation to the national and international. The freedom of the press in Turkey is therefore under massive pressure. I think it is deeply problematic that Turkey is blocking access to the media at a time when several million refugees are staying in Turkey; a time when the press's best access to Northern Syria is through Turkey; at a time when Turkey is actively involved in the fight against Daesh; at a time when Turkey is taking action against Kurdish targets instead of going only for Daesh. It is essential to ensure that the press has free access to document important events, and this is a crucial condition for an informed debate and for us to be able to take decisions on an informed basis. On the Danish and European side, it is crucial that we put pressure on Turkey and demand free access for the press. Precisely because we have chosen to cooperate with Turkey, we have a special responsibility, of course to the journalists concerned, but also to ensure that developments in Turkey are passed on to the wider population. On top of that, another human rights crisis is lurking. According to Amnesty International, up to 2.5 million refugees living in Turkey, mainly from Syria, are subjected to illegal imprisonment and deportations. In fact, Amnesty has documented that in many cases the centres where refugees and migrants are illegally detained are funded by EU funds. With massive support and support from outside, Turkey should provide basic needs for refugees, but in general, a lack of access to housing, education and health actually helps to push refugees to move towards Europe. It's a trip that can easily cost lives. And, as I also highlighted yesterday in the debate on the EU-Turkey agreement, I fear that the EU agreement with Turkey on dealing with precisely the refugee situation will only mean that more refugees and migrants will embark on the dangerous journey across the Mediterranean. We cannot and cannot outsource our management of the refugee crisis to Turkey, let alone when it so openly makes life difficult for, among others, Turkey. refugees, including: by closing borders with Syria and carrying out inhuman control operations on the Mediterranean Sea. Our cooperation with Turkey should be about how we strengthen human rights and the development of society, not just restricting access for immigrants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303184454	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Then it's mr. Emrah Tuncer from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303184501	Thank you. Much has happened in Turkey over the last year. Tens of thousands of civilians are trapped between the fronts of a war between Turkish military and militant Kurds in south-east Turkey. The Turkish army has launched a large-scale offensive to expel militants from the banned Kurdish party of the PKK. Thousands of soldiers and tanks have been deployed to remove resistance pockets in mostly Kurdish areas. In some places there has been curfew around the clock, and due to the curfew, the city's shops have actually been closed for up to several weeks. Many had looked forward to the resumption of the collapsed peace negotiations after the November elections, but instead the fighting has got worse. Hundreds of people are reported killed in the last few months. The government accuses militant Kurds of using civilians in the affected villages as living shields against government forces by fighting from private homes and preventing civilians from fleeing. On 10 November 2015, the European Commission published the annual report on developments in Turkey. The report, which is part of the Commission's 2015 enlargement package, takes stock of the country's formal accession negotiations as an EU candidate country. The Commission is examining in particular developments since the last parliamentary elections on 7 June and 1 November last year. There is scepticism in a number of EU Member States about future Turkish EU membership. Despite the fact that the European Union has just intensified its cooperation with Turkey on refugees and migrants, the Commission does not condone and points out in the report that developments in the country in a number of areas have gone in the wrong direction. Greater efforts are needed to restore the independence of the judiciary and to achieve a real division of power. The country is criticised for not complying with fundamental principles of the rule of law. At the same time, there are shortcomings in the legal system in respect of respect for fundamental rights, not least as regards freedom of assembly and freedom of expression. According to the Commission, there has been a decline in Turkey in particular over the last two years. On the positive side, however, it can be said that in the last parliamentary elections there was a record turnout of 84 and 85% respectively. After all, the Commission immediately describes this as a health sign for Turkish democracy. So, although there is an active civil society in Turkey that has engaged in the debate and other public activities, there are still signs of restricting the country's fundamental rights of assembly and freedom of expression. This calls the Commission a serious development. After a number of years of positive developments in the area of freedom of expression, there has been a serious decline over recent years. There has also been a marked deterioration in the security situation in Turkey. The Turkish parliamentary elections took place in the wake of a number of violent incidents and conflicts between the Turkish Government and the PKK, which remain on the EU's terrorist list. The Commission therefore calls on the Turkish Government to resume the peace talks with the Kurdish minority. After all, the report also highlights a number of positive elements in the country's development of relations with the EU. This applies in particular to the negotiations on a joint migration action plan, which are currently being negotiated. This issue is expected to be linked to a strengthened customs union and visa liberalisation. The improvement of the freedom of the press in Turkey, as I mentioned, is important. It is about framework and working conditions for not only Danish and foreign journalists, but for all journalists in Turkey, and it goes to the heart of the issue of Turkish compliance with basic European standards in a key area in relation to democracy, the rule of law and human rights. So, in those words, the Radical Left can endorse this proposal for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303184847	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. Would the Minister like to speak? The Minister doesn't. Well, then, sir. Søren Søndergaard wanted the floor safely for a final remark. I have not mentioned either the SF or the Conservatives, as I do not see them present in the Chamber. Here you go, sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303184910	I would like to say thank you for the debate, yes, debate is perhaps a strong word, but then for the statements of opinion, which, at least on long stretches, have been very similar, and I think that is a good starting point for us to be able to discuss on another occasion what we can do further to follow up on the very clear reports that have been made. I would like to make a few comments on some of the points that have been raised, and I would like to take as a starting point the terrorist action in Ankara, mentioned by Christina Egelund of the Liberal Alliance, which is indeed the biggest terrorist action at all and in which the problem is perhaps not so much the Turkish police and the question of proportionality, but more what the Turkish police are doing to prevent such acts of terrorism. In other words, what was at issue was that the Turkish trade union movement had decided that they would make a demonstration for peace, and it was supported by the Kurdish HDP party and from the left, and then there was a peaceful demonstration for peace. And then all the policemen disappeared, and then the bombs blew up, and over 100 people were blown to pieces. So the fight against terrorism has many facets, and I think it is important to emphasise here that one of the fights against terrorism that must be waged is to prevent terrorism, for example. in relation to peaceful demonstrators or peaceful people who gather in a place in Ankara to mark their desire for peace. One issue that we may not have addressed very much is the question of foreign policy, and here I think it is important to bear in mind that what we see from Turkey in relation to Syria is a unilateral attack into another country. After all, it is not the case that the Kurdish forces in Syria, YPG and YPJ, or the free Syrian formation in which they form, lie and shoot into Turkey. There is no question of that, and they do not do so at all. It is a case of Turkey sending in grenades completely unilaterally from Turkish territory, shooting at freedom fighters fighting for their territories and fighting against Assad and the Islamic State, and this is, in fact, a gross violation which has brought them to an end with the United States on countless occasions, and one can understand that. In addition, I would like to say that it is of course important that we give a clear message here, and others do. After all, Danish PEN is holding a demonstration in front of the Turkish Embassy tomorrow at 10 a.m. 15.30 to mark exactly the opposition to the attacks on journalists, who after all reached a new peak here the other day when a Turkish-Curdician editor, Rohat Aktas, was murdered. After all, it is important that it is also marked by Danish civil society, and we certainly welcome that. I think it is a good thing that, with this joint motion for a resolution, we have been able to send out a clear signal, a signal that peace negotiations must start and that everyone must sit down at that table, a signal that Turkey must live up to human rights and that they must comply with the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. They themselves have joined the Council of Europe and, of course, when they themselves have wanted to join the association, they must also live up to the judgments that come from there. In conclusion, I would like to say on behalf of the SF, which was unfortunately prevented from being here right at the end, that they also want to support the proposal for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303185310	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. No one else wants to speak, and since that is not the case, the negotiations have been concluded. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Tuesday 15 March 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160303185331	There is no more to be done in this sitting, and I would like to thank everyone for their work today in the service of the people's regime. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 4 March 2016, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
