ParlaMint-DK_20160527090005	The meeting is open. Member of the Folketing Mette Bock (LA) and others. I have been informed that she wishes to withdraw the following proposals: proposal for a parliamentary resolution on the publication of the documents of the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission. B 52). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? The motion for a resolution is included in the Enhedslisten. The Tax Committee has presented a report on fraud involving the reimbursement of dividend tax. 6). The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527090050	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 78 by Eva Kjer Hansen (V), Ole Birk Olesen (LA) and Brian Mikkelsen (KF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour, 29 (V, LA and KF) voted against 71 (S, DF, EL, ALT, RV and SF), [no votes for or against 0]. Proposal for adoption No V 78 is rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 76 by Rune Lund (EL), Mattia Tesfay (S), Josephine Fock (ALT), Martin Lidegaard (RV) and Jacob Mark (SF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF) voted against 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. Proposal for adoption No V 76 has been rejected. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) V 77 by Hans Kristian Skibby (DF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 23 (DF), against 82 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. Proposal for adoption No V 77 is rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527090305	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527090317	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 17 (EL, ALT and SF), against 88 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527090400	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527090409	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 11 (EL and SF), against 93 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527090444	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527090455	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 14 (EL and ALT), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527090531	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527090547	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 9 of a minority (EL, ALT and SF) and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of 17 (EL, ALT and SF), against 87 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The proposal has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 11 and 13, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 10 and 12 members of the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 14 of a minority (EL, ALT and SF) and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of 17 (EL, ALT and SF), against 87 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The proposal has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 15 and 16, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 18 on the report by the Minister for Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy or on Amendment No 18. 17, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527090742	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527090807	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527090838	The first vote will be on L 162. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL) and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 8 (EL), against 96 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL) and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 8 (EL), against 96 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The proposal has been rejected. The vote will then be taken on L 163. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to 5, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527091010	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? We're gonna have a little quiet in the hall. If anyone wishes to comment on the proposal, it should preferably be from the platform. As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527091106	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527091139	This bill deals with some fundamental questions about the relationship between the Folketing and the government. The question has been discussed by the Bureau, which does not consider it entirely possible to rule out the possibility of raising questions as to whether what the draft law entails will be in accordance with the Constitution. However, I have not found it so clear that it has given me the opportunity to raise the question of the constitutionality of the proposal in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure with a view to possibly recommending to the House that the proposal should be rejected, cf. Paragraph 16 of the Rules of Procedure. 3. I will follow the debate with particular attention and I assume that the question of the constitutionality of the proposal will be included in the debate. The debate is open, and it is the Minister of Justice first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527091248	First of all, I would like to thank the President for speaking today to draw attention to the serious issues raised by the proposal in relation to the constitution. As I will discuss later here in my presentation to the Danish Parliament, this is a concern shared by the government. Bill No. 170, which we are dealing with at first reading today, lays down a general rule that, with some substantial exceptions, parliamentary decisions should be legally binding on the government. The exceptions include situations where compliance with a parliamentary decision is considered to be contrary to the Constitution, Union law or Denmark's international obligations. A violation of the proposed obligation to comply with a parliamentary decision must be punishable by the law of ministerial responsibility. The reason for the bill is, among other things, that the proposers believe that the opportunity provided by the Danish Parliament under the Constitution to express its distrust of a minister or government is, quote, secretly theoretical. The proposers then find it not credible, quote, and quote. As Minister of Justice, I am, of course, invited on behalf of the government to make some comments on the draft law's relationship with the Constitution. It is the Government's view that the proposed scheme raises important issues in relation to this. First of all, it concerns section 21 of the Constitution, which deals with the right of ministers to propose laws and other decisions to the Folketing. Because the provision is a so-called government prerogative, the power cannot be legally restricted. The government cannot therefore be required to submit a bill with a specific content. At the same time, an arrangement such as the proposed one can hardly be considered to be in agreement with the relationship established by the Constitution between the executive and the legislature in Section 3 of the Constitution. This assessment is, moreover, fully in line with the assessment made by the then government in the 1960s during the work on drawing up a law of ministerial responsibility. At that time, consideration was also given to establishing a system whereby parliamentary decisions are generally made legally binding. The Minister for Justice then expressed the view that, apart from a motion of censure adopted by the Folketing, a decision by parliament could not give a Minister legally binding instructions. In addition to the essential issues relating to the Basic Law, and it is probably a matter of temperament whether you want to circumvent the Constitution with the respect and caution that I think it should be dealt with immediately, I would also like to add some more political remarks to the draft law. It happens regularly that there is political disagreement between the government and the Folketing and fortunately for it. After all, it is one of the many strengths of a democracy that we can disagree, but still have a proper and sober debate, where we listen to and incorporate each other's views and, who knows, perhaps even convince each other. The Constitution provides a system for dealing with political disagreements. Broadly speaking, the rule of the Constitution is that the Folketing and the government have the legislative power together, and that the Folketing and the government each have some means of power. If the Folketing wants to impose duties on the government, the Folketing can pass a law, and that law must then the government consider and assess whether it will confirm. Parliament can also express its distrust of the Prime Minister. In such situations, the Prime Minister must choose between two things: either to request the resignation of the whole ministry or to issue new elections. And at the same time, the Prime Minister can issue new elections at any time. These are the very basic rules of the game for our people's government, and they represent a carefully balanced balance between Parliament and government. That balance is fundamental to our democracy, and I believe we must safeguard it. What the proposers are proposing is to change the constitution and its arrangement on how to deal with a political disagreement between government and parliament. That is neither appropriate nor necessary. This is because the constitutional system provides both the Folketing and the government with sufficient means of power to deal with a situation where there is a political disagreement between government and parliament. In any case, the government cannot recognize the image which the proposers are trying to draw, that the powers of the Folketing under the Constitution are rather theoretical or are not credible. I can only say that on the basis of this year that I have everything against it. In fact, I find it rather thought-provoking and worrying that this choice of words should be used to describe a system anchored in the constitution which has been an expression of a fundamental element of our democracy since the change of system in 1901. By its very nature, a responsible government does not support legislative proposals that raise important issues in relation to the Constitution. It may have far-reaching implications, including, of course, the promise made by each member of parliament at the time of his entry. Already that is why the government cannot support the bill. It is the Constitution that sets the framework for our governance and how we deal with political disagreements between government and parliament. It is the government's view that we must safeguard this fundamental framework for our people's rule. This is how we ensure a well-functioning and decision-making democracy. I hope that my and the President's remarks today have convinced the Members of Parliament present to support the constitutional system for dealing with political disagreements between a Parliament and a government and thus not to support L 170.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527091926	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments, and first it is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527091933	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for the legal instruction on the Constitution. It's always good to get these things refreshed. I would like to ask the Minister whether he really does not think that he is lying as he has done, since it was a rather serious situation we had in December, when the government chose in a rather important area, namely development aid, to depart from listening to the Folketing. That is the problem, that is, if a government says on several occasions that it will either not follow a resolution or says in advance that if it is adopted, it will not follow it. We have heard this lately with the Iraq investigation. There is, after all, a minister here who said that if it were adopted, the government would not follow it. I believe that this poses a problem on which the Minister and the government have to take a position.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527092037	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527092038	The answer is as simple as it is crystal clear: if the Folketing is unhappy with a minister's act, the Folketing can dismiss the minister concerned. And the Folketing doesn't need any justification. However, I would recommend the objectivity of [sound outfall]... but the thing is, you don't have to. And that's why this is outside talk, because if you're referring to the case of development aid, the Folketing could have done exactly what suited the Folketing. You didn't choose to do that. As far as Iraq is concerned, I think it is precisely this point that it was air roasts and fries, because what did it end up with? In the end, a broad majority in this Parliament came together to resolve the problem in question. It was precisely the result of a fruitful discussion between the Folketing and the government, where all things were used in the discussion, but where, of course, as we are used to, we ended up with something that most people could see themselves in. It is a dangerous matter to begin to upset the balances created by the founding fathers. That is my view.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527092142	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527092147	I do not want to say that this is a dangerous matter, I would say that it is a serious matter to touch the Constitution • yes, I agree with that. But I would also say that it is a serious matter when governments in several cases choose to say: we will not listen to the Folketing. And I think the minister should take a trip to the country and try to talk to people about it. Many people have reacted with the main shake when they have heard a government say: we will not follow the Folketing. It has little to do with legal principles; it has something to do with common sense. And most people would think that it was an arrogant government that in this way just said: we are ignoring a majority of the people.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527092226	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527092228	But without in any way provoking, I would just like to say that the Folketing is in many ways in which the Folketing has made its decisions. There was not even a motion of censure against the minister concerned. After all, the Folketing didn't even act as sir. Christian Juhl chose to stand up and say: this is so unacceptable that the Minister must leave. And there you have to ask yourself, why didn't he? Those options were there. Well, then you could be voted down, but that would have been the way to test it on a parliamentary basis. Instead, we are trying to legalise politics and even upset the balance between the government and the Folketing. That is not appropriate. That's not a smart way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527092312	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527092316	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister of Justice for making a good review of the Constitution. It is always nice to speak the Constitution. But if we are now also trying to look at the content of this proposal, does the Minister not agree that it is actually absurd that we should be standing here and discussing whether we have a government that will actually follow the legislative assembly, whether we have a government that looks at the work we are doing here so seriously that they are actually saying: OK, there is a majority in the Folketing who wants to do this? This bill should not have to be put forward at all. Surely it should be quite natural precisely because of a proper and sober debate and good cooperation that the government of course takes a majority in the Folketing seriously and not just ignores it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527092403	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527092404	Well, that depends on which case we're talking about. After all, the government has an independent responsibility as the executive in this country and also has a responsibility in relation to the constitution. There have been examples of discussions on cases. One of the more absurd cases I have heard about was in the 1980s, when the Folketing, by means of a motion for a resolution, would require the prosecution not to raise a particular criminal case which the prosecution had decided to raise. There are cases, and there are examples of the government saying that it will not, and then the Folketing has to make up for itself whether you can live with it or not. Fortunately and wisely and wisely it is so that if the Folketing will not put up with it, a path is indicated. You can either get rid of the individual minister, or you can even get rid of the whole ministry, that is. The government as such. There can be seriousness on both sides. And that is why the fathers of the Constitution chose to set up the system in this way. Then I would say to the alternative that I actually thought that the alternative as a party had an understanding that intuitive processes are far better than the legalisation of everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527092519	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527092521	As I said, I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for his review of the Constitution. That's all I can do on top of this answer. I ask about the content; I ask about the content, about whether the Minister of Justice does not see that it is actually absurd that we should be discussing it here, so that we should be discussing whether the government is working with the Danish Parliament on something as important as foreign aid, and that one does not just have the arrogance to ignore that majority. So that is the content I am asking about, and not another review of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527092552	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527092553	Yes, I think it's absurd, but not because of it, as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist says. I think it is absurd that some in the Danish Parliament want to play games with the constitution's structure of responsibility and will not take note of what the Ministry of Justice has said and what is said by the Chair, that here you are going very close, running a risk and, in my view, doing something that is unconstitutional. I'll say, I don't understand. The government has been brought into a situation where it says that it does not intend to comply with this, and the Folketing must then decide what to do. Parliament can do whatever it wants and, as I say in the context to which it refers, there was not even a question of distrust of the minister in question, there was nothing in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527092641	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527092645	The Minister of Justice put great emphasis on the problem of turning political disagreements into legal discussion. But that's exactly what he does. He disagrees with this proposal and argues legally that it is unconstitutional and I do not know what. So he himself is the best example of this. For example, he mentions the change of system in 1901, when, if I may say so, the Danish Parliament was given the decisive power. No one above and no one next to the Folketing, as Viggo Hørup said at the time, and that is exactly what this is all about, or rather it is an expression of the fact that we did not expect the government to override a majority of the people, as they did just before Christmas, and that is why we need to tighten this up. This is indeed politics, Minister of Justice, and I think it is a major political debate which we believe is complete within the framework of the Constitution, as two state law experts in the newspaper Information today confirm. Two professors of state law say it is entirely within the scope of the Constitution. You've actually been looking into this quite thoroughly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527092800	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527092801	I have always thought that the expression above and no one beside the Folketing was the expression of the greatest degree of power perfection and misunderstanding of what section 3 of the Constitution is. And Mr. Holger had to taste it himself. Now I don't remember what Mr. Holger K voted for the Tvindloven, but it is evident when you follow recent Danish constitutional history that, of course, the Folketing is not above the Supreme Court. Of course not, and that is not the case in proper democracies. There you have the three powers in a balanced balance with each other. And that is also why, for example, the Folketing. cannot regulate the government's right to make legislative proposals. There's nothing over the government there. In this way, the three powers are aligned with each other, and that is largely politics. It is also very much politics when you stand down there and lay your hand down, I would have said, mentally speaking, on the constitution and saying that you will respect all its principles and all that lies behind it. There it is here, whether you like it or not, with the background view, as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen expresses a shift in the balance envisaged in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527092908	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527092910	It is not a fundamental upsetting of the balance. This is a correction because this government did not want to comply with the principle that a government should comply with what a majority of the people will achieve. It is quite clear in this bill that when it comes to the constitution, when it comes to the prerogatives of the government when it comes to relations with other states, there are exceptions to that. That is to say, there is no one here in the Folketing who can order the government to do something which, for example, is unconstitutional. On the other hand, there is the simple need to be able to require a government to comply with what a majority in the Folketing says. That is parliamentary democracy, and that is what this political debate is all about. Given that this is within the framework of the Constitution, which is also confirmed by several state law experts today, I think that the Minister for Justice should argue politically instead of arguing that this is unconstitutional... what it is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527093021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527093022	I find it boring that a parliamentarian with such a great deal of experience as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen does not take note of the fact that the President of the Danish Parliament begins this discussion with the remarks made by the President of the Danish Parliament, that is to say that it is completely rejected. I think that is a lack of respect for the debate we have and that is what I take seriously. The second is that you don't have to think back to anything other than that government, sir. Holger K. Nielsen himself was sitting in, where a majority of the Folketing was also overlooked in relation to child support. The question is whether you want to take seriously the things you stand for, both when you sit in government and when you sit in opposition. And there I have to say that the attitude and approach of the government is that the constitutional structures of responsibility that we have in place should not be tampered with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527093108	Thank you. Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527093113	Then I have to ask the Minister for Justice whether, in his view, the problem of the basic law mentioned by the Minister would be removed if it were to be said that this obligation, it might be said, is that the government to follow the majority of the people should be in the area of existing legislation. For the problem we are talking about and the reason we are even standing here today is, of course, that the government chose to override a majority in the Folketing, which wanted an adjustment in the Finance Act. I didn't want to make a new law. The government made an administrative change to the existing Finance Act without asking anyone. Then there will be a majority of the people and say: we disagree with that, for there was a majority of the people who passed a bill of finance. Now the government is changing administratively, even though there is a majority of the people who are opposed to doing so. So it is not a question of creating new legislation or of being able to do something else. It is just that, despite the fact that there is no political majority in favour of it, the government is making administrative changes without jeopardising new legislation. That is why we are here today. Is it fair that you can do that? Is it a fair balance that existing legislation as a government can implement things which are demonstrably opposed by the majority who have passed the law in question?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527093231	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527093234	What I have to say is that Parliament has obviously considered it so reasonable, so that the question has not even been raised in this Chamber about expressing distrust of the minister who took the action in question. That is what I see. Not even the Radical Left raised it, and it has to be said that if you do not consider it to be more, and if you do not even do the formal act and instead want to put ministers for years in prison for something that you obviously did not take seriously, so you raised the question, then it is difficult. That is then the political approach to it on top of the legal one.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527093310	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527093313	I know the Justice Minister well enough to know that when he starts to be polemical, it's because he has a problem. The Minister indirectly confirms here that, if it is within existing legislation, there are no constitutional problems with it. If there is anything in relation to § 21, it is if you pass a new law. However, if the government is required not to make the administrative changes it is making within the existing legislation, that cannot be contrary to the constitution. That is how I see it if the Minister does not say otherwise, that is to say that it is at least that way. It is clear that putting a minister into distrust is a very large tool to use. In other words, one can easily imagine situations and it was precisely such that one was that one has very great political will to help the world's poorest with 1.5 billion more, but for many political reasons one does not want to bring down a minister. Do we need nuclear weapons, if I may say so, every time to get this government to respect a majority in the Folketing? That is what the Minister of Justice is saying, that is to say, that you simply have to have the big guns in use every time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527093416	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527093419	It's very funny that sir. Martin Lidegaard believes that it is I who is polemical, and then he claims that every time the government has to challenge people with nuclear weapons. I think that's a little funny. As far as I know, this has not happened in this context, and the previous government, moreover, had the same problem in relation to something specific about child support, where it was chosen to ignore it. There was no requirement for ministers to go to prison if they did not comply with the law or the resolution. But so, my view is that ministers can act within the framework of the constitution. You can avoid confirming a law if that's what you want. And then you have to stand up for it before the Folketing, and then the Folketing has to draw the consequences that the Folketing will have in relation to the minister in question. I think it is a political point of view that it does not serve our people's rule, that we have a tendency in the time to legalize everything, to want to have rules for everything and to want to define all sorts of areas instead of having the proper, honest debate here in the Parliament and then act on it if you are unhappy. I do not think that trend serves our people's rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527093524	Thank you to the Minister, there are no more brief comments. Then we go to the rapporteur's line, that's sir. Orla Hav, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527093538	Thank you. It is very much an unusual situation that the Folketing has come into with today's discussion of a bill from the SF. It is not so usual for anyone other than the government to make legislative proposals. As a rule, it is a motion for a resolution or a motion for a resolution on a specific subject. It is unusual also with the background of the Danish tradition of popular rule that it should be necessary for parties outside the government to seek to establish good parliamentary practice. We hold many talks about the change of system in 1901, when a broad majority in the Parliament secured support behind the principle of parliamentarism in Denmark. Of course, any government can rely on other obligations as a reason why a proposal cannot be implemented. Here the conflict may be in relation to international agreements to which Denmark has acceded, or the contexts of EU cooperation. There are several examples of the government having had to draw attention to a possible conflict between what a majority of the people wanted to implement and overall considerations that the government considered appropriate. On the other hand, it is a new practice for the present government to sit a parliamentary decision overwhelm fully consciously and without any argument other than that the government disagrees. Yes, such a practice is highly questionable and clearly contrary to the principles of parliamentarianism and the rule of the people. I am sure that over the years several of the members of the Confederal Group of the European United Left have made fine constitutional speeches in which they have praised the rule of the people and the democratic spirit of the Danish constitution. These are not beautiful examples that the government has provided in the way of the people's regime. Should we then proceed to legislate on the consequences of non-compliance with resolutions? No, in our opinion, we should not. The Constitution and the Law of Ministerial Responsibility provide the Folketing with tools to put an end to a government or a minister who does not respect the relationship of power between the legislature and the executive. If, as the Minister has pointed out, a government or a minister is repeatedly or in particular grossly opposed by a majority of the people, a motion of censure may be tabled, and the majority cast aside may put their influence through the hand of the government or the Minister. At the moment, it is a two-stage rocket that can implement this. With SF's bill, it could be a one-step rocket. This poses a great risk that coincidences, moods and hot cases would lead to instability in the Folketing. We do not want to experiment with the stability of Denmark's popular rule when we actually have the means of power to ensure respect for the basic principles of the people's rule. So we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527093847	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527093852	I'd like to ask Mr. Orla Hav, if he does not think that this can easily be done and decided within the framework of the Constitution. It seems quite grotesque that it is the old government-supporting parties that are now defending themselves. For what if you came into government yourself and couldn't do the same? I am well aware of the history of the last time that the Socialist Government would not follow a majority in this Chamber. It was also a grotesque situation. That is why it is important that we find ways of having a better interplay between governments and Parliament, so that governments have a little more respect for what is decided here than they have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527093933	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527093935	I would be sorry to venture into a long legal discussion about what the Constitution can do and what the Constitution cannot do. There are smarter heads than me who have been working on today's edition of Information. And I do not disagree with them. I think that Parliament could adopt what is being proposed. But I do not think that is appropriate. I think it is appropriate that, after the current distribution, there should be opportunities to remove a government or a minister who ignores a majority of the people; those opportunities are present in the constitution. I think that it is here in a way that allows us to have sufficient stability, what is also needed in the administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527094019	Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527094021	Yes, sir. Orla had such a happy mind saying that it is quite without regard to the fact that the Socialists are sometimes in government and that there is therefore a certain self-interest in it? Is it not reasonable that there is the closest possible interaction between what the Folketing decides and what governments then do and that governments should, as a rule, be expected to follow the decisions of the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527094049	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527094050	I'd say to the end, no doubt about it. But it has also been taken into account that there may be disagreement between the government and the majority of the Folketing, and then there is the means of power for the majority of the Folketing to put it through. So it is not because the Folketing does not have the means of power at its disposal. I've got to tell Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl, that this is not based on who is in government. It is based on an appropriateness, in relation to how we get the most stable folk rule in Denmark, where the power of course lies with the majority of the Folketing. But the fact that you have to use two buttons to force your will through does not seem unreasonable to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527094132	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527094135	It was an argument of the Socialist rapporteur that adopting this could mean instability and that it would be moods that will determine things. It is something terrible if the mood in the Folketing is to decide what the government should do. Then there is also talk of instability. I don't know about that; there may be. But that is the kind of argument used by technocrats. In other words, it cannot have too much democracy and too much involvement on the part of the Danish Parliament, because it can mean that it will be less stable. That's where I'm gonna have to say to Mr. Knox. Orla Hav, that democracy is the expression of the Folketing deciding what this country is going to develop into. It is not the government that has that right to decide. That is why I think it is a strange argument to say that it can create instability. I'm not sure that's true. But if that is true, then it is not very relevant to democracy. Democracy can be difficult. Yeah, it could be. We recognize that. But that doesn't mean we have to write it off for that reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527094258	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527094300	If sir... Holger K. Nielsen had understood me correctly, he would know that I actually tried to sketch out that it is an absolutely good thing that we have democracy in Denmark. We are happy and happy to talk about how great democracy and the rule of the people are. But it is also the case that the people's rule does not live on instability. The people's regime feeds on disagreement and on finding solutions to any differences that may arise. And when the sufficient tools are available in that toolbox, in other words in relation to the interaction between a parliament and its government, we consider that it is enough to keep the government in its ears. Of course, a government must be kept in its ears to ensure that the will of the majority of the people is carried out. I recognise that what the Minister of Justice says requires that that majority be manifested subsequently if you have sidelined. That possibility is present. The fact that it has not been practiced may not be acceptable to the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527094416	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527094417	The whole matter of the savings on aid that we had before Christmas shows that the toolbox is not in order. It's not okay. There was a majority that clearly indicated that the saving had to be taken away. The government refused and it was really very provocative and very provocative to follow the majority of the Folketing and said such a little mocking: you can just knock us over, knowing that that majority would not. The question is: should there not be any possibility of imposing a line on the government without necessarily blowing up a bomb, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard said before? That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527094504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527094506	Well, it is sometimes a tough game, depending on how serious, we have to say weapons are used to secure the decisions to be taken. All I have to say is that today the Danish Parliament has the tools to get its way. Whether you want to use them or not, the Folketing's own assessment is in the given situation. On the socialist side, we feel that this is a sensible principle and that the democracy that exists must be guaranteed and respected. We must also conduct a proper and objective opposition policy with regard to the government. But we do not avoid disagreements, and the people's regime also lives by finding solutions to the differences that arise.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527094600	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527094609	Thank you, President. The proposal we are debating now intends to require ministers to comply with parliamentary decisions at any time. Let me begin by saying that we in the Danish People's Party have a clear expectation that ministers and governments, regardless of party colour, will of course listen to the currents in the Folketing and that governments will endeavour to take the work and majority of the Folketing seriously. That is the starting point. Since the entry of parliamentarianism into Denmark, the Folketing has been equipped with good opportunities to pull the curtain away at any time under a government or even to live with a government and with its policy. If a majority in the Folketing does not trust a government, it can at any time withdraw its support, table a motion of censure and overthrow the government. There is already a chance of that now. The proposal contains a correspondence between the Minister of Justice and the President of the Danish Parliament. The Minister has written in his letter to the President, and I quote: 'After the Government's views, the proposal raises important questions in relation to the Constitution. ▪ This is precisely what makes the proposal itself even more difficult to deal with, because, when we started in here, we have all signed up to the fact that we want to comply with it. It is therefore also difficult to see how members of the Folketing, who are to remain within this framework, can adopt a proposal that could possibly challenge the very framework and limitations that the Basic Law lays down as a prerequisite for the work in here. In the Danish People's Party, we are quite satisfied with the way in which the constitution is put together. Nor do we want to put the Folketing in a situation which might compromise the majority with these very frameworks. The details of the proposal, i.e. whether it violates the Constitution or not, we would very much like further clarification in the forthcoming work on this particular proposal, because it is quite crucial for us. But I will finish my speech with what I actually started with. Because we always have, regardless of how this proposal ends, a very clear expectation that the government, both the present and the future, will, of course, listen and respect the work of the Folketing and also the opinions of the Folketing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527094842	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527094847	Thank you. I fully agree that it was a fantastic review of the Constitution that we had from the Minister in the first place. This is always interesting, and we can continue to work on it in committee, of course also to make sure that it meets the needs of it. But I would really like to ask a little bit about the content again, because when I saw the bill, I thought first: why? And then I thought: how absurd that we really need to do this. But then there is the rapporteur who does not agree that it is almost absurd that we have to stand and discuss it here, since we are now a legislative body which should have cooperation with the government, where the government follows the majority that is here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527094941	Here you go to the rapporteur, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527094943	I therefore agree with the questioner that we had a very good examination of the Minister in the first place. It is also my impression that there is generally a very good relationship between the parties of the Folketing. And regardless of the color of the government, there will be a relatively reasonable cooperation... regardless of which wing you might be on. I really think it is crucial when we have such a debate as we now have, that the Folketing is given the opportunity to get through in one way or another. And there is already quite a broad framework for how to implement this kind of thing today. So, let me remind you that in previous situations one could only have tabled a motion of censure if one wanted to, so that one could use the ultimate power against a government. That's just the basic question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527095033	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527095034	I know very well the tools we already have, but what really puzzles me about this and, as I know, the people who are standing out there are that when the Folketing votes through, nothing happens. That is some of the things that are helping to create a terrible mistrust of politicians. So I'm really just looking forward to us working on it and doing some research on the Constitution. And, of course, I hope that the Danish People's Party will also be willing to get this through, if we can do so within the framework of the Constitution, so that we can help to create greater confidence in politicians in our citizens. Because I think that when the government doesn't follow the majority of the Folketing, people sit out there moaning.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527095118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527095119	Well, I'm generally looking forward to working with sir. Rasmus Nordqvist and the alternative, so I can confirm that. Rasmus Nordqvist in that we look forward to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527095128	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527095131	Thank you. The Danish People's Party stressed that there is a good cooperation and that the government listens to the Folketing and respects the Folketing. Yeah, well, I'd almost say it was missing. Of course it does. That's not what this is about. This is about whether or not it will act, in accordance with what a majority in the Folketing says. That's what this is about. And there I do not quite understand that the Danish People's Party, as I know, is a party which so much cherishs the power of the Danish Parliament and the possibilities of the Danish Parliament, in this matter, cannot even see the problem of the government refusing to follow a majority in the Danish Parliament on foreign aid before Christmas. You have a blind eye to it. Is that not a fundamental problem in our democracy? When you talk to ordinary people outside this house, they say they have an expectation that the government will, of course, follow the majority of the parliament. Many were surprised that it was possible not to follow a majority of the people. That's what we're trying to fix with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527095239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527095240	I can assure you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen says that the Danish People's Party has no blind spots, as it was said, or blind points have in relation to the government, or that we can have a good discussion in the Assembly Hall about what opportunities there should be to control the government and what opportunities there should be to put through a majority or a policy. After all, the fact is that the Folketing has wide powers and good opportunities to come after a government if you feel that the government is not delivering the goods or if you feel that the government is on the wrong track. Then there are already very drastic methods which a majority of the Folketing can use at any time. And I think that's really good.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527095324	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527095327	Yeah, but that's the same thing as what was said by the Attorney General. That is a repeat of what he has said, and that is not what I think the debate here is really about or should be about. It is about whether it is politically acceptable to the Danish People's Party, that the government does not follow a majority in parliament, and whether it is also acceptable that every time you have to use the ultimate means of power, knowing that it is very difficult to use. In other words, is it not appropriate to discuss whether one could find a way between the fact that the government does not follow a majority of the people and that the government should be overthrown, so as to talk about substance, talking about the content of what a majority of the people want, rather than turning into a debate about the government being overthrown?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527095424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527095425	We can easily discuss what methods should be used for this. We're really happy to do that. But Mr. Holger K. Nielsen must also be able to see that a government will not always be able to go beyond a majority in the Folketing. It will always have consequences. Of course it will have consequences. And there is the fact that the Folketing already has some very far-reaching opportunities to come after a government if the government does not deliver the goods. Therefore, our starting point is that whether the government is blue or red, it will of course have a great interest in listening to the currents in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527095507	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527095509	I just need to clarify where the Danish People's Party stands. It seems as if they say that everything is quite fine and that we do not need to do more about this. One can accept that the state of things is as it is. If that is not true, and if the Danish People's Party believes that there should be greater consistency between what is decided here and what the government is doing, what does the Danish People's Party think about things? So far, it seems that the state of things is good and that nothing will be done by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527095540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527095542	Thank you for the question. I really think that at the beginning of my speech I explained very well that we would, of course, like to talk about this proposal and continue working on it in committee to see how realistic it is in relation to the limitations of the basic law in that direction. To them we will not break, that is quite clear. But we'd be happy to have a good talk about that with Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl or anyone else. The only thing is that the Folketing already has a right to be able to withdraw support to a government if that is how you feel it is going to be too much.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527095621	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527095623	In other words, I have to understand that the Danish People's Party will help to make some changes if this can happen within the framework of the Constitution, and then we will start from that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527095634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527095634-2	It must be understood in this way that we are involved in exploring the framework that exists and in finding out where the restrictions lie. I can promise you, sir. Christian Juhl, that we would like to go into that talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527095644	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527095700	Thank you, President-in-Office, and thank you for your introductory remarks. The bill we have here today is a private bill. The government tends to vote in favour of legislative proposals, but it is in the Constitution that members of parliament also have the opportunity to make legislative proposals. It happens every once in a while, and that is what we have here today. It is, of course, a rather special draft law which is basically based on a frustration about the parliamentaryism that we have developed in Denmark, where it is not as in the old days, I had almost said where we had two parties in here: the Left, who sat left in the Chamber, and the Right, who sat right. One of the parties had so little over half of the seats, and they also pointed to a government. This was the case, and something was needed before such a government came into the minority, because it would mean that one should be overthrown by one's own. Now, for many years now, we have had a more muddy picture of many parties, which cross-partyly form part of various constellations, majorities and minorities, which means that a government can find itself in a situation that is very difficult. And that is what happened when a motion for a resolution on foreign aid was considered which would have meant that the economic policy of the government would not have been coherent if the government had put the majority of the Danish Parliament's opinion into practice by the government. And it is therefore a very important part of being a government that one can make one's economy stick together and make a financial law fit. That is why the government chose to draw the card: we do not follow the parliamentary decision, because then our economy is not connected, and then the majority of the parliament must take the consequence if you think that it is impossible to live with, namely overthrowing the government or overthrowing a minister. I can understand the frustration. I think, or rather, I know I would have had the same. Because that was the frustration I had when I was in opposition during the last period and the then government chose not to follow the majority that was bypassing the government on the issue of child support. So I understand the frustration. But that is why we are talking about the division of power, that is why we are talking about a balance of power. Similarly, the recent decision of the Supreme Court is in the Levakovic case. Were there members of parliament who were frustrated that the Supreme Court reached the result that was achieved? Yeah, I promise there was. But, on the other hand, we also had to recognise that it was some others who had the power there and that it was not we who could decide. In the same way, it is also with a government. A government has some special rights, some prerogatives, as stated in State law literature, where the Folketing cannot go in and overrule. The Folketing has other options, because a Parliament can also table a bill instead of a motion for a resolution and adopt it, and then it is law. A majority of Parliaments can also compare it to throwing nuclear bombs, which I think is a bit violently overthrowing a minister if one expresses distrust of that minister. So the balance of power we have, I think we should be very, very careful to move on. There is some thought when our constitution was created at the time, and that is why I must strongly recommend that we vote against this bill. But, as I said, I recognize and understand the frustration. It is also a frustration that can sometimes be felt when you sit in a parliamentary group, but that is the three-part division of power, and that is the balance that we have reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527100050	Thank you to the rapporteur. A few brief remarks, the first is from Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527100056	Yes, but wouldn't the Left recognise that the comments on this bill explicitly state that, in the case of the government's prerogatives, they are exempt from Parliament's ability to take legal action? In other words, this does not go against the constitutional rights that the government has and the constitutional duties that the government has. We are well aware that it would never happen and that it would not be acceptable if we did so. And neither do we in this bill. It has already been said that the previous government did not choose to follow the majority of children's money either. No, they didn't, and that's what this bill also says because there was an international obligation that we came on a collision course with there. In other words, the legal arguments that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen is bringing us here today. That is also why there are two state law experts today in Information saying: it stays within the framework of the Constitution, and it does, precisely because we have made the exceptions as is the case here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527100213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527100214	It's not that simple. For example, if we take the issue of child benefit, it is true that the then government said that it would be contrary to EU law. But a majority of the people said: that is not our assessment. I'm sure you can also find legal experts who can comment on it if they're interviewed for Information. It's not that simple. We do not know whether anything is contrary to our international obligations, because before there is a court decision, we do not know. So that's why it's not quite as simple as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen is trying to put it up. The assumption in legal literature is quite clear and has always been: parliamentary decisions are not legally binding. But listen to me: a government which repeatedly chooses to ignore a majority of the people is not a government for very long.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527100308	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527100314	There is no doubt that there has been and is a general expectation that a government will, of course, comply with what a majority of the people will achieve, and that it is therefore rather atypical that we need to have a legislative proposal made by the current opposition in order to be able to have this discussed here. Once again, I would like to ask: does the Left not think that it is appropriate to be able to have an opportunity to achieve a political desire on the part of a majority of the people without necessarily overthrowing the government if it does not follow it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527100406	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527100407	I think this is a good discussion. It may well have been on the basis of a request or something else, and not on the basis of a legislative proposal. But I think the discussion is good. I would say that it is certainly unconventional when a government chooses not to follow a parliamentary decision, but that is something that happens. And that also happened in the last period when Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's party at least some of the time was in government. So that's what's happening. I would like to say that it is not the case that the present government has some principle that it does not want to follow parliamentary decisions. Of course, there must be very serious reasons for choosing to ignore a majority of the people. But such a reason was found there, and it was so evidently not there that I was going to say something that one cannot say from the Parliament's platform ■ the sufficient courage of the opposition parties to then take the consequences. But, of course, the main rule is to follow a majority of the people, even if it is a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527100517	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527100519	A government that chooses to overhear the Folketing several times does not sit very long. No, you could have a rewarding hope for that, and we must see how things are going. When the rapporteur of the Left says that it is unconventional not to listen to the Folketing and that there are serious reasons for this, I would like to rewind the time to the last working day before Christmas in 2015. Then there was a proposal which was not revolutionary but which just started on the idea that the new government would take 1.4 billion this year. kr. from the world's poorest. There was a majority in the Folketing who wanted to remedy that in order to avoid the disaster for which it would be for quite a few poor people not to get the money to develop their societies or their activities. If 1.4 billion. kr. in this Finance Act, i.e. the Finance Act for 2016, could destroy a government's ability to act financially, then, in my opinion, it is a very, very weak government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527100628	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527100629	I hope it wasn't the last working day. Shouldn't we agree that it was the last day of the meeting? In relation to this saying that you are not listening, I would say that of course you are listening. I mean, the government listens, but it is not necessarily the case that you then do the things that you listen to, you think you should do. And it is the government that is in line with economic policy and plus/minus 1.4 billion. kr. So you can feel at the end of the month. It is the government that is at the forefront of economic policy, and it is the government's responsibility to make a financial law stick together. And that is why the government has the opportunity to say: well, we do not. It can also be said that it is quite unconventional for parties to choose to pursue economic policy, not in some financial law negotiations, but through a resolution in the Folketing. Perhaps that is where the problem has really arisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527100735	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527100736	No, it's wrong. Where the problem arose was that a government intervened in an existing financial law in such a fundamental area as Danish development aid. And, in principle, 1.4 billion were taken in one area. kr. from some of the world's poorest people. Then a majority will have to react and say: this is where the limit goes. Even the alliance partner of the Left, that is Conservative, thought that the limit had been reached here. That's where the problem arose. And it's not about not finding 1.4 billion. kr. It's about a principle, that is, you might as well say it as it is. It is not a problem for any government to find 1.4 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527100821	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527100822	It is certainly not a problem for Enhedslisten to find 1.4 billion. kr. or 100 billion. kr. or 1,000 billion. kr. I have gradually learned that the slogan in Mr. Christian Juhl's party is: Now we have to remember that we can only spend the money five times. But I don't think we're getting any closer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527100842	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527100855	Now I got into the debate a little late, and I regret that, but I had to go to something else. I would like to ask briefly something about the reason why I think this is an important legislative proposal. And that is that we are in a situation where we have a minority government, and what really concerns me is whether there is support for our democracy out there in the population, i.e. whether you think that in here, right across the Folketing, we are defending the interests of the people. When there is a majority decision in the Folketing, I wonder how morally the government is perhaps too much of a word but how the government can ignore such a decision, what the government, as I see it, does, in terms of precisely defending the interests of democracy across all parties. So what have the government thought about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527100950	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527100950-2	After all, a government is part of democracy. The courts are also part of democracy. I am convinced, then, that there are probably a great many, perhaps even a majority, who have the same gut feeling, a spinal cord reaction, or whatever we shall call what Mrs Josephine Fock tells us about here and now. Yeah, I get that. However, it is important to make it clear that there is nothing undemocratic in what has been going on and that the Constitution has taken account of these situations, namely that a government should not have a majority behind it; it should not have a majority against it. The fact that we have minority governments is not a peculiar thing, it is the usual thing. Majority governments are the exception, and majority governments, when they have been there, have consisted of several parties. We have a long way to go before we have a one-party government that was a majority government. So there's nothing unusual about it. The fact that no one can mess with others in this way, i.e. that we have this balance of power, I think is very important. I would like to take it upon myself to convince the people with whom the rapporteur has spoken if I have half an hour with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527101123	Mrs. Josephine Fock, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527101124	The rapporteur is now using legal arguments, and what I think is interesting is political arguments as to why a majority decision can be ignored. So I would really like to hear the political arguments for this. Now it seems that the rapporteur himself is aware of what many people have also asked about, namely whether it can really be true that we have a government that is so massively ignorant of a parliamentary decision. So I would really like to hear the political arguments and not the legal ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527101204	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527101205	Law is what happens when the policy is done. Then you reach some decision, and then it becomes law. The political reason why we have a three-way division should not be allowed to go back very far in history to find it. For that matter, there are still regimes where you have no division of power at all, but where you have a perfection of power, and perfection of power is dangerously dangerous. After all, it is the government that has to answer for what a majority of the people have to decide, and that is why it is also the government that has the power to decide whether or not to follow the majority. But the general rule, the most important rule, is, of course, that you follow the majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527101306	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527101329	As I have said several times today, I think it is a grotesque situation that we have ended up discussing a legislative proposal on whether a government should follow a majority in the Folketing. It should of course be a political and moral matter that it happened, especially on the basis of the very, very important situation that arose, whether you call it the last working day or the meeting day before Christmas it was at least very close to Christmas. I remember clearly how we had to have both a discussion here and in committee, and then we got the surprising announcement that the government did not want to follow the majority of the Folketing. I was surprised myself, I thought it was a matter of course that this was the case. When the President of the Danish Parliament says that it cannot be ruled out that it may be contrary to the Constitution, that is, first of all, something that the President of the Danish Parliament has to say, in my opinion, when we discuss these things. The second is that it must therefore be dealt with anyway. It is also just as logical, because it has to be a matter of discussing where the limits of the constitution are going along the way. In this area, I believe that a great deal can be done, and that is why I welcome the SF's proposals and, incidentally, other proposals which could promote these things. I don't think it's enough just to have a good opinion and a good attitude on these things, especially with the government we have now. Although I recognise that the last government did the same in a single area, it is important to find ways for there to be more agreement between the Folketing and Mr. Søren Pind and his government. This proposal tries to bring decisions in the Folketing and decisions in the government closer together, and I guess no one can in principle disagree with that. That's why I think it's important that we work on these things. I think it is quite simply a political moral issue, namely that we take democracy seriously. Democracy is not a God-given size, which is once and for all placed somewhere. It is, of course, a process with which we are working, a process in which it is developed. This applies both within the framework of the present constitution and, if you look at the four constitutions, you can see that in the last 200 years alone, there has been quite a lot of work on the development of democracy. The first constitution really gave only 19 per cent. of the Danish population the right to vote, namely wealthy men over a certain age. It was a very, very limited proportion of the population who at that time had the right to do so. Fortunately, we have managed to move one step further, and I am quite sure that generations after us will develop and change the rules under which democracy operates, both because it is common sense, but also because time allows for it. I was a little shocked by the contribution of the rapporteur from the Left. He said that there was a frustration about the parliamentarism we had, and then he dreamt himself back to then, there was only the Right and Left, i.e. Conservative and Left, Denmark's Liberal Party, in the Folketing. This was, of course, easier, but in my opinion it was also a restricted democracy at the time, and that is why it is good that there has been a development since then. Then he said that we in Denmark today have a muddy political picture. It is a rather revealing remark to call the diversity of the Folketing a muddy political picture. I do not know what the rapporteur thinks of when he calls it a muddy picture. I call it a multi-faceted picture that reflects the diversity of the population. It's a quality in itself. Of course, it creates challenges when we have to find a majority for legislative proposals and such things, and I think it is okay that some, for example. The rapporteur of the Left is dreaming of a situation where only one party has a majority, and then you can do whatever you want. I see it as a quality that there is a diversity in the Folketing and that the nuances of the population actually get their right rather than in the old-fashioned two-party system. That is why we must cherish that diversity and also, as a government, understand to have the qualities of government that make it possible to deal with that diversity. Otherwise, in my opinion, you are a bad government. That is why I believe that this proposal is a fine one to discuss on the basis of. It is a very sympathetic proposal and we will go very positively and actively into the debate we hope to have, on top of that the SF has tabled the proposal. I thank you for putting it forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527101844	Thank you. There is a brief comment. And I would just like to say that the Minister must be called Minister rather than by name. Here you go, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527101854	Now maybe I think that mr. Christian Juhl must be careful not to involve history and relations with democracy and such things too much in this debate. Because I remember what the rapporteur was doing in the 1980s and so on, but let it be. I'm not dreaming back to the two-party system. I just told you that was the case once and that things were more simple, but also less diverse. I also appreciate many of the new parties that have come. I may think that some of them have become a little big and so on, but I appreciate the diversity, including the diversity that Enhedslisten has brought into the Folketing. I also think that the alternative contributes to the debate and political life that I appreciate and appreciate. It's just to get that misunderstanding out in the ground. I do not dream back to when there were only two parties in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527101953	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527101955	I would just like to express my thanks for the very positive reflections of the rapporteur from the Left. I hear it can be quick when we have a talk with each other. I took him at his word and I think that is necessary when it is said in this way that the system of the Right and the Left in the old days was a better one than what we now have. But I understand that we agree that it is a very great advantage to have a diverse Parliament with many different views.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527102025	Here you go, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527102027	At least where they have two-party systems, we see that the groupings take place in the individual parties, and that does not necessarily give a less muddy picture. So I fully agree that the diversity that exists is positive. But there must be some left who not only run around and are diverse, but who also lead and rule the country. It may then be necessary to ignore a majority, because the country must also be governed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527102108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527102109	Thank you. If diversity cannot flourish within the two major parties, other parties naturally arise. It's something that goes without saying. I see this as a necessary and positive process. The thing about whether it's a muddy picture or not wasn't something I mentioned. It was the rapporteur himself who used that expression. I would just like to remind you that if a government wants to rule, it is a very good idea to have a very open ear for what is happening in the Folketing, and not, as in December, completely closing its ears to a very big and serious problem which could have been solved if there had been a will in the current government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527102153	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl as rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527102205	It is an exciting and relevant debate which the Socialist People's Party is raising here, namely the relationship between the Folketing and the government, and how to behave if the government does not comply with the Danish Parliament's decisions. Let it be made clear at the outset that I am completely in the position of the Foreign Minister, namely that it is an insult to the Folketing when the government does not comply with the decisions of the Folketing. That is what the current Foreign Minister said back in 2014 when the then SR government would not follow a majority in the parliament in the case of the payment of children's cheques to EU citizens. That, of course, was also what happened when last year's government did not want to follow a majority of the people on the issue of development aid. What can you do about it? The Socialist People's Party proposes to change the legislation so that you move on to a "must" clause. In the Liberal Alliance, we are actually satisfied with the current system. There are basically three exits today. There is the normal thing, namely that the government actually follows what the Folketing decides, and fortunately that is normal, or the government can see where it is going, and then a political agreement is made, where compromises may be reached. This is what has happened with the historic statement that is coming about the Kosovo, Iraq and Afghanistan war, which we ourselves have been involved with the government. Then there is the situation where the government simply does not follow the majority, and there I would say that, in the case of the Liberal Alliance, if we make a proposal for which there seems to be a majority in favour, we assume that it will either end up as an agreement with the government on a compromise or that the government follows the majority of which we are part or that the minister in question is no longer a minister in Denmark. It's like the exits that are for us. The fact that other parties seem to have less of something that I am not allowed to mention from the speaking chair of the Folketing is not, in fact, our problem. After all, it is up to the individual parties to exercise the responsibility of making a proposal and to take the consequences of the government's failure to follow a majority in the Folketing. In the vast majority of cases there is also the possibility, in relation to the Folketing, that you can simply make a direct change of law. It will be law if you adopt it in the Folketing, and then that matter is not so much longer. So although we understand the problems raised by the Socialist People's Party, we really believe that the current system is fine because there are the tools that need to be used. The question then is whether there is enough courage and a man's heart in the parties that bring various governments into the minority.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527102510	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. I do not think Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative, is here. No. Then we move on to Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527102537	Let me begin by thanking Mr. Holger K. Nielsen and SF for having brought this debate up. I think this is an important debate. This is a very fundamental debate, and I also think that the Minister for Justice took it up to the level that it deserves. Let me say on the legal aspect of this, that it is clear that, in order for us to support the proposal, we must of course be 100% sure that there is no conflict with the constitution. It is possible that it requires some adjustments. Now I am dealing with what both the President of the Danish Parliament began by saying and which the Minister of Justice also mentioned. This, of course, deserves a thorough investigation. Having said that, I would like to turn to the more political aspect of it, and that is that if there are no particular reasons for it, then it is our view that the balance between the executive and the legislative power, which was confirmed in 1901 and which we have kept all the way through here, has been to respect the majority of the Danish Parliament, unless it came into conflict with precisely the constitution or the rules of the European Union or, I would have almost said, something else in which Denmark is legally bound. This has been parliamentary practice to date. That is why it is fair to have a discussion of it when that practice changes, because a government here, despite the fact that no new laws are to be adopted, despite the fact that it is not contrary to the Constitution or any of Denmark's obligations, either European or wider internationally, nevertheless chooses to overhear the majority of the Folketing and probably would have done so again if, for reasons which I find completely incomprehensible, the Alternative and Liberal Alliance did not choose to save the government on the finish line in relation to the Iraq Commission. If that had not happened, we would have had another repetition in which the government, for no real reason other than their own political convictions, had chosen to override the majority of the Folketing. I think this raises a fundamental issue of precisely the balance between executive and legislative power. We have had the opportunity to discuss this in the past, and our attitude is such that when that power starts to shift, there is reason for the Folketing to take its responsibilities seriously and for us to try to maintain and maintain that balance. That is why we are in favour of this draft law, but politically speaking, of course, we must be sure that the law is in order. One of the things I attached myself to in the Minister for Justice's speech was that it was Section 21 of the Constitution, that is to say the government's prerogative in terms of being able to make new legislation which one was concerned about was not being respected. However, what has been characteristic, and which I also managed to mention in my questions to the Minister for Justice, has just been that it has been within the legislation in force that the government has, in a way, gone across a majority. It was, after all, a financial law adopted by the Folketing and the then government, which was subsequently introduced and amended. I do not see that it should in any way be against the Constitution that a majority of the people in that situation say: No, we would like to maintain that the government actually complies with the Finance Act adopted by both the then government and the Folketing. We must then drill out whether or not it would have been in conflict with the Constitution. I therefore find that difficult to imagine, but it must of course be drilled properly before we can finally join in.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527102916	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next speaker in line is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527102925	SF makes a proposal which should basically be completely unnecessary in relation to a government, regardless of its political color, complying with the majority of the Folketing. We believe that everything else should be a matter of course. If we do not support the proposal, it is also because of the considerations expressed by the note from the Ministry of Justice. We take note of the comment on section 21 of the Constitution, which means that the power of the government to table legislative and resolution motions cannot be legally restricted. Paragraph 3 on the division of power is referred to so that it can hardly be regarded as voting with the relationship established by the Constitution between the executive and the legislature. We're not the mind to test that limit. Furthermore, we believe that the Folketing has the opportunity to react. Having said all this, I would just like to say quite clearly that it is my clear expectation that a government will comply with the majority of the Folketing, and every government will gamble with its life every time you overhear the Folketing. But we must deal with this politically and not with a legislative proposal. I don't think we're missing anything in the toolbox. I think we should also be careful that we do not have a discussion here today as if that were the norm. We almost make the debate here sound like it's almost normal that the government doesn't follow the decisions of the Folketing every other day. Perhaps we should also get some proportions into this debate. I think we have the tools and I think we have all the opportunities to act politically. Then it is up to us as parties what choices we make in the given situations. I certainly believe that there is the toolbox that needs to be used, and that is why we see no reason to support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527103118	Thank you, and there are some brief comments. The first question is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527103125	I must confess that I do not understand that the Conservative People's Party is out arguing this way. After all, it was the Conservatives who were caught up in the present system. It was the Conservatives who supported the withdrawal of the development savings from 2015 before Christmas and then came into the dilemma that if the government did not follow that majority in the Folketing, it might have to be overturned by a motion of censure. The Conservatives did not want to get into that situation, and I can understand that from the point of view of general policy. But then it is precisely an expression of the fact that there was no tool in the toolbox, so the Conservative People's Party had had an opportunity, if I may say so, to take its opinion seriously without necessarily having to overthrow the government. And that is what we are trying to change here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527103234	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527103235	I can actually follow Mr. Knox's lead. Holger K. Nielsen, but I think there are the things in the toolbox that need to be done. It was then a decision that we took in relation to the financial agreement we had just concluded, that is, the overall political assessment of what had to be done. I share, I think, completely Mr. Holger K. Nielsens, what should I say, annoying that one chooses to overhear a majority in the Folketing, i.e. when in 2015 it was decided to cut these funds in the Finance Act for this year, and it was with a message that one could just do that. And then, when there is a motion for a resolution on something else, you are really sorry and so on. etc. We don't think that we deserved very warm feelings, that's clear. That is why I would like to say that there is both a legal point in this proposal, but I also believe that we have the tools. Then it is up to the Conservative People's Party whether we feel we should have done something more or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527103336	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527103337	Well, it was exactly up to the Conservatives to find out if you wanted to do anything more, and you wouldn't. And, as I said, I have a political understanding that you wouldn't. So it's just that I'm asking, wouldn't it have been an advantage if you had had another opportunity without having to blow up this big bomb, so you could have made it happen with the Conservatives anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527103406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527103409	I can follow it, but I am addressing both the concerns that have been raised with regard to legal issues, and so I still believe that we have the political opportunities we need to have. Once again, I think we should be careful that this debate does not sound as if this is the norm. Because then there are no more examples of it. After all, it is not the case that examples of a government that does not want to follow it can be used. If it started to become the norm, then I thought there was a reason to try again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527103435	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527103439	The Conservative rapporteur says that the Folketing has the opportunities that the Folketing should have. If our ancestors had now told the next generation, that is, that you can count on it, and you don't have to change anything, then there wouldn't be much to do in this Parliament. Because then things were sort of put in place. I would like to ask the rapporteur a question. A Finance Act has been passed, as far as I can even remember with the votes of the Left. The left will then come as a government party and say that we are just changing that, because we need the 1.4 billion. kr. to something else and Denmark is not in an emergency legal situation economically or in any other way. There are problems, yes, but it is a political assessment, and then you do so, even though the majority of the people say that they do not like it. Does the rapporteur really not think that it is somewhat atypical for the government to change it anyway? I could even understand it if it was part of a financial law agreement where it was decided to remove them next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527103546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527103547	Yes, I believe so, and I also strongly disagree with the government's decision. After all, we chose from our side, so what to say, not to go ahead with it. In other words, we did not think there was any reason to say that we did not have confidence in the Minister, nor did we think that we were going to table a motion of censure on the government. That was our assessment. But this is purely political; it is very much a political matter. I'm never going to think that government maneuver was okay, because it wasn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527103620	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527103622	No, but I remember quite clearly where the Conservatives were on that issue on 21 December, which is why we were powerless. Because there was no longer a majority to take the next step. The Conservative People's Party is an old party, but that's why you don't have to have old-conservative attitudes. Is it the case that the Conservative People's Party believes that the rules of parliamentarianism that are now in place are the ones that should be? Or is there just a small opening to the fact that sometimes you can change something a little, especially if you see that it is in the power relationship between the government and the Folketing, and then you have to try to get it restored, whether it happens often or rarely? Or is it just that we have to ride with the rules we have? Should democracy not develop in line with the times?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527103714	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527103715	Yes, sir, I agree with you. Christian Juhl in that you can get to where you have to say that something is about to go, and then you have to do something. I actually agree with that. It's not static. Of course, you have to follow what is going on in time, and I will not rule out the possibility of a time coming if it starts to become too often that a government does not follow a majority in the Parliament where you must have drilled it more out. Because I still believe that it must be the will of the majority of the Folketing to express itself in the legislation we have in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527103743	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527103800	Thank you for that, President. We are dealing here with a draft law on compliance with parliamentary decisions. And in fact, I think it is a shame and, frankly, somewhat abstract that we need to stand here today and deal with a legislative proposal in which, in reality, the purpose is something as fundamental as a government having to comply with a majority of parliaments. As mentioned in the proposal, the direct reason for this bill is that on 21 December 2015, the Danish Parliament adopted a resolution requiring the government to pay approx. 1.4 billion kr. in aid funds before the end of the year. As you know, the government chose not to comply with the decision. It is a government's right not to comply with a parliamentary decision, and traditionally it has been the case that when a government has chosen not to comply with a parliamentary decision, it is because there have been serious legal reasons not to do so. At least you can't say that in this case. There was a purely political reason not to follow it, where they also said that they did not think they had the means to do so. But there were no serious legal reasons for this. That is why the alternative also fully agrees with the proposers that it is a democratic problem if a government does not follow a parliamentary decision. And I have to say that I also mentioned in my question to the rapporteur of the Left that I fear that the general public has a great deal, very difficult to understand that a majority of the people are obliging a government to follow up on a matter, but the government is ignoring it. How is that even possible? So the one thing is really about legitimacy here in the Folketing towards the people, which I think is a huge problem and which I think this bill could correct. Another thing, and this is so more technical, is that all of us who are not parliamentary basis for the government do not have the same means and the same overview to be able to make legislative proposals. It is the case that a government must follow a majority for a legislative proposal. And when we as parties table a motion for a resolution, it is because we require the government to follow up that resolution and thus ensure that such a motion for a resolution is fully complied with and complies with the Constitution and so on. However, if we get into situations where the government does not follow a resolution, then as parties that are not parliamentary basis, we will have to consider whether this is the right way to go or whether we are somehow going to pool resources and legal aid together to actually make legislative proposals. And that will certainly be a huge problem for democracy, because it will hamper the democratic debate, including in this Chamber. It is mentioned that there are some constitutional issues in this proposal, and that is why it must of course be fully bored out in committee, but I really hope it will not be necessary. Because I hope that the Left and the government will end up backing this bill. I think it is absolutely essential in our democracy that a government should, of course, follow a parliamentary decision. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527104140	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then I give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527104158	At the time, just before Christmas, when it came to the fact that the government would not follow the majority of the people in the parliament about cuts in foreign aid, I was called by my 28-year-old daughter. She was really upset. That can't be right, Dad, she said, what is this? She was completely shocked that it was possible for a government to refuse to follow a majority of the people. I think it reflects very well what the perception is of these things. When you talk to people outside this house, there is no doubt that, of course, a government must follow what a majority in the Folketing agrees on. Of course. That's our democracy. That's our system. And that is why it was really shocking for many when, shortly before Christmas, it came to light that this was not actually the case, but that the present government refused to follow a majority in the Folketing. We have considered a great deal what we could do about it, and then agreed that we would make a bill, not a motion for a resolution. It doesn't do much good here, because the government won't follow that. So we had to make this as a bill, it goes without saying, and we actually worked quite thoroughly and for quite a long time on it. We also had it for consultation in various places and agreed that, of course, we had to stay within the framework of the Constitution. That is why it seems to me to be untenable arguments when the Minister of Justice and others argue legally and say that this is outside the constitution and that it is unconstitutional. But let us have a discussion of it, and let us have it pierced, as Mrs Josephine Fock says, when we are going to deal with it here in committee. This is, of course, an important fundamental discussion. However, we have placed great emphasis on the fact that the provisions in the Constitution, on the prerogatives of the government and on the rights and duties of the government, do not go in and touch. It is simply within the framework of the constitution that we know that this must be realized, and I think we should have that discussion. As I said, it is quite important in principle. I noted that the historical reference made by the Minister dates back to 1963. And, of course, respect must be given to what was said and written in 1963, but I think there may also be grounds for a renewed discussion of this. After all, it is about the division of power between the government and the Folketing, and that is why it is fundamentally political. It is about whether the government, if I may say so, can do as it pleases, regardless of what a majority in the Folketing says, and that the Folketing must have the opportunity to express its will without necessarily being forced into the ultimate weapon, which is that one wants to overthrow the government. It's in that tension field that we're discussing these things. That is why I think it is, as it were, appropriate to say that, instead of discussing it in this way, it would be possible to overthrow the government, and then it would just be some sort of power struggle, it would be about a policy and a political content that a majority of the Folketing would have liked to have implemented. The government does not agree with the majority in the parliament, and what is the situation? Then what we are saying is that there must be a legal obligation for a government in this context to follow the majority of the people within the framework of the Constitution. And I think that is an important, I would say correction. There is no change in the division of powers between the Folketing and the government. It is a question of correcting because the government has gone too far to translate its power against a majority in the Folketing. That's what this is basically about. When I discussed it the other day, someone compared it with the footnote policy of the 1980s, where there was a major conflict between a majority of the people and the government. At that time the government at that time was furious at the majority of the Folketing. Uffe Ellemann-Jensen foamed with rage, but he followed the majority. The government followed the majority then, even though they were against it. They were furious about it, but they did it. There was no doubt that they should do so. And when you no longer wanted to do so, you put out parliamentary elections. Well, there was nothing about you just going up and saying, "We don't want to follow this." They went down into NATO and made these footnotes because that's what the majority of the people wanted. That is why I think that this power arrogance by the government in terms of the savings in foreign aid is something new. This is something new, and it shows that there is an increasing arrogance among the parties that are given the power of government and feel like Mr. Orla Hav said that stability could be compromised if you do something like this. I do not think that is how we can argue or should argue in a democracy, because, of course, stability can be put at risk, but democracy is, after all, more important. So if you, as a government, think it is a problem that it is annoying and that it can, like, create a little confusion about what the government can do, then you just have to put up with it, because that is what democracy is. Of course it was annoying for the government when the majority of the people decided before Christmas that those cuts should be taken away. Of course it was annoying, but that's the nature of democracy, which is that although it can be annoying with this parliamentary majority, with this Parliament, when you sit in the government offices at Slotsholmen, you have to take it seriously. That is what our democracy is built on. That is why we need to tighten this up, and that is why we have tabled this bill. We cannot claim, as a result of the debate, that there is a majority in favour of it. I thank the parties that have supported the proposal, the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the Alternative. I hope, in any case, that we will be able to continue the fundamental debate on it. At least it's important. A lot of water has flown in the stream since 1963, and I certainly believe that there is a basis for a more fundamental debate on the relationship between the Folketing and the government and on the division of power, as described in the Constitution, also in relation to what it poses of challenges in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527105018	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527105021	Thank you. I think sir... Holger K. Nielsen has overlooked the amendment tabled by the Radical Left, which states that this law does not apply to Greenland, the Faroe Islands and any government with the participation of the Radical Left. Well, I'll just have to ask Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen about something. I did not fully understand the distinction between a correction and a change. In my dictionary, it's synonymous, but leave it alone. When Mr. Holger K. Nielsen says that former Foreign Minister Uffe Ellemann-Jensen was drinking and raging, but followed the majority of the Danish Parliament, why did he get all the noses?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527105059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527105102	It was because you disagreed with his rhetoric. It was. Footnotes were then made in NATO. You can see that down there. Footnote policy was realized. The fact that the government at that time behaved a little strange is something else. When he made speeches at Sabro Kro etc., he provoked the majority of the people deeply. He provoked the majority of the people, but he actually followed the majority of the people as he should.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527105141	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527105143	Can't we agree that the government didn't follow the majority of the Folketing and that's why he got noses? That's why he got his arm twisted on the back of the majority of the people. You don't give your nose because you don't like people's rhetoric.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527105159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527105202	There were a lot of questions in this Chamber. There was never any doubt that the government down in NATO would, of course, follow that majority of the people. That is why there was so much dissatisfaction with that policy. That is why the footnotes on nuclear policy were put down in NATO.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527105225	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527105245	The debate is open. I give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527105310	The bill proposes to set up a rapid-working study group to investigate certain aspects of the fire on the ship Scandinavian Star. According to the bill, the study group is required to examine and clarify the ownership of the ship •Scandinavian Star •, the circumstances of the Maritime Authority's investigation of the case and the subsequent statements, where senior employees have expressed distrust of the process, and the circumstances of the role of other Danish authorities in the case. Against this background, the investigation team shall assess whether the findings give rise to the setting up of a commission of inquiry. As you know, on 7 April 1990 a fire broke out on the ship Scandinavian Star, which sailed between Oslo and Frederikshavn. During the fire, 158 people died. The relatives who lost family members or other relatives of the terrible shipping accident have my deepest sympathy, and I do not believe that any of us are really able to understand how terrible it must have been and still be. Following the tragic incident, extensive investigation and investigation work was undertaken to identify the causes of the fire and assess the conditions of liability of the accident. In this context, an agreement was concluded between Denmark, Norway and Sweden to set up a Joint Committee of Inquiry, the Committee of Inquiry. The review committee had among other things: to assess the causes of the accident and the condition of the ship, but not to carry out a proper criminal assessment. In January 1991 the Review Committee submitted its report to the Norwegian Ministry of Justice. An agreement was also concluded after the accident between the Norwegian, Swedish and Danish authorities to split the investigation into the case. The fire and its immediate cause were thus investigated by the Norwegian authorities, the fire-fighting work and the technical conditions on the ship were examined by the Swedish authorities, and the ship's ownership and insurance conditions as well as the ship's general seaworthiness and compliance with maritime law were investigated by the Danish authorities. At home, the Danish investigation of e.g. the ship's general seaworthiness and compliance with maritime law for the indictment of the ship's nests, the director of the shipping company and the captain of the ship for the breach of the applicable law on the safety of ships. The case was finally settled by the judgment of the Supreme Court of 22 November 1993 in which the persons concerned were sentenced to six months' liability for, inter alia, not to have ensured that the ship was in a safe condition. Subsequently, the Attorney General and the Ministry of Justice have examined a number of requests for the resumption of the Danish part of the investigation. By December 2010 at the latest, the Attorney General has decided that there are no grounds for reopening the part of the case which has been investigated by the Danish authorities. In Norway, the investigation of the arson case was closed by the Norwegian Attorney General in 1991 to the post of the evidence. The Norwegian authorities' investigation pointed out that the fire had been set and that the most likely arsonist was a Danish passenger who died in the fire himself. Thus, no criminal proceedings were brought against any person. The Norwegian Attorney General has subsequently several times refused to resume the investigation of the fire and its immediate cause, which happened last in January 2012. However, on the basis of information provided by the Stiftelsen etterforskning af amorbrannen Scandinavian Star, the Norwegian Attorney General decided in April 2013 that the police in Oslo, who originally conducted the investigation of the Norwegian part of the case, should re-evaluate whether there was a basis for launching a new investigation into the arson on board. The police chief in Oslo then set up a project group which has carried out a review of the available investigation material, including the material from the Danish case, which was made available to the project group. After examination of the material, the group decided not to recommend a further investigation of the case. However, the Chief of Police in Oslo indicated that the review of the project group showed that possible economic motives were only investigated to a limited extent. On this basis, the Norwegian authorities have partially resumed the investigation in 2014 with a view to examining whether there may have been financial reasons for the arson. In this connection, the Danish Attorney General has provided all the material and has also assisted the Norwegians with a number of investigative steps and answers to specific questions. The responsibility for the new investigation lies with the police in Oslo, as in the investigation among others. has also included the information that has been publicised in the Danish media in the spring. In addition to the criminal investigation, an independent investigation commission on the Scandinavian Star has also been set up in Norway on the basis of a grand decision of 12 May last year. The purpose of the Commission is to assess whether the facts presented in connection with the Storting's earlier handling of the case, including the information contained in the January 1991 report of the Committee of Inquiry, give a correct and complete picture of the case in the light of the information which has subsequently emerged. The Commission must also assess the follow-up by the public authorities. Two studies are currently being carried out in Norway. I fully understand the desire for clarification and I agree that such a serious matter must, of course, be examined in depth. Having said that, I must admit that it is difficult to see the purpose of Denmark doing an independent study in parallel with the measures in Norway. We should therefore, in any case, await the results of this and, on that basis, the government cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527105855	Thank you. There are some brief comments. The first question is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527105901	Thank you. New information has come out. In any case, a former inspector, Flemming Thue Jensen, who is at the heart of the matter, has been out saying that he has information relating to the matter. The Attorney General has recognized that. It has been 1⁄2 years since he first approached the Maritime Authority, from which the case was then forwarded to the Attorney General, who did not go further with this information. It is absolutely grotesque that it will not be carried forward if you are at the centre of a case and have been the captain of the ship and say: I have crucial knowledge of this matter. It is quite absurd that it should then be shut down. There are so many unresolved issues in this case, especially in relation to what became Denmark's role in the clearing work at the time: ownership, motive, etc. Does the Minister think that we can tell the Danish victims and their relatives that we will not make an independent Danish study where Danish authorities may be questioned under witness responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527110021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527110022	I do not think I have concealed the fact that I find it remarkable that the person concerned has waited so long to provide the information he thinks he has. Some of the relatives have expressed that fact. I don't understand that either. But the fact is that the information in question is also part of the reopened investigation in Norway. Flemming Thue Jensen and the then head of the Maritime Authority have been interrogated in this regard. They are March, where also Norwegian police and the Norwegian prosecutor and a number of Norwegian aid lawyers were present. So no, I don't think so. I believe that we should await the outcome of the Norwegian studies. It would be very strange, I think, if we were to carry out a parallel investigation. That is also what I have said on this matter. I have not concluded what will happen when the Norwegian results are available.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527110123	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527110124	On 22 May 1997 there was a question debate here in the Danish Parliament. A majority of the parties adopted a text. SF, Enhedslisten, DF and other parties were not in it, but there was a majority. And the text of the adoption contained that now completely shut down, no more should be done unless there was new, decisive information on the matter, because then it would have to be taken up again. Just as the Norwegians in their parliament have said: we are a majority in here who want to look at this again, so there are a large number of parties in our Parliament who say that of course the Danish Parliament has a responsibility for the Danish victims and their relatives in relation to the part that concerns Denmark and the Danish authorities. Because is it not true that the Norwegians cannot interrogate Danish authorities under witness responsibility and that they cannot demand all material?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527110223	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527110223-2	The person concerned was questioned by the Danish authorities while the Norwegian authorities were present. I can just say that I have concluded nothing but that we must wait for the Norwegian studies, which will soon be completed. I don't see the purpose of a parallel Danish study in this context. And... no, I think I'm gonna stop here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527110246	The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527110249	Thank you. I would just like to ask the Minister whether it is the Minister's view that we, as a society in general and the relatives in particular, can be fully satisfied with the efforts made by various authorities over the years in the investigation work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527110311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527110314	What we can see is that the Norwegian authorities have found occasion to reopen the case. I think that speaks for itself, and what I am saying is that we must wait for the two Norwegian studies which are currently under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527110325	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527110330	That was a real politician's answer. If what the Minister was trying to say is that there is no basis for being satisfied with the Danish authorities' investigation into the matter over the years, would it not be an idea to clarify what has gone wrong? Or does the country's Minister of Justice say that for many years there may have been an unsatisfactory investigation of one of the most serious crimes in recent times, without having to investigate why it has not been satisfactory?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527110358	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527110401	I'm not gonna take part in sir. Søren Søndergaard's conspiracy theories and resolve considerations. I feel that at the moment there are two studies which are on their way through the Norwegian authorities, among others. the Norwegian Storting, and I reserve the right to wait before we put in place a huge apparatus, when, in my view, the Danish authorities themselves, so far, and there is no indication of anything else, have been quite thorough in the part they were supposed to take care of.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527110424	The next question is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527110433	The minister said something like he couldn't understand that Flemming Thue Jensen had waited so long to come forward with this information. Flemming Thue Jensen tried to proceed with the information himself internally, you might say, but it was rejected by the Executive Board of the Maritime Authority, which instead approached the Ministry of Justice. Does the Minister consider that it is Flemming Thue Jensen's personal responsibility that the information has not been disclosed? Do you want me to understand it that way?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527110504	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527110508	I note that, regardless of whether it has been 25 years or 26 years, it is at least a long time if you think you have decisive knowledge that you have not chosen to make available to the public in the intervening period. And people have to make up for themselves why they do it. I can only note that it was something that affected a great many survivors that, as TV 2's broadcast had shown, so long had passed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527110529	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527110532	[Audience outburst]... thought that Flemming Thue Jensen was not completely put into what one had of information, and therefore perhaps thought that there might be some information that made him not to come forward with this when he was told that he should not. Is it not true that the Danish authorities chose not to go further with the information that Flemming Thue Jensen had and that his inquiry was not actually reported at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527110555	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527110557	My call to Danish citizens is that if they are aware of illegalities and they believe that their information is of crucial importance, then they must make it available and then they must make it available as soon as possible. That is, in fact, my general approach to that matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527110611	Thank you, Minister. And we move on to the rapporteur's line. The first speaker is Mr. Orla Sea as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527110622	Thank you for that, President. There should be no doubt that what we are discussing today is a deeply, deeply tragic matter. And it is also deeply, deeply critical of the course that has taken in trying to find out what was the cause and what was the effect of the tragic wreck that cost so many people their lives. I think it is obvious that there are a large number of relatives who must be wondering about the government's action in this game. And I understand SF's impatience to excavate the reasons for this. I also note that what was agreed at the time was a division of labour between the Danish, Norwegian and Swedish authorities, all of which had shares in it, in terms of the fact that there were parts of the process that the three countries shared to be based on and that a division of labour was made between the various authorities. We cannot be satisfied with this result. Should we then short-circuit the process at this point and say: Now we are calling for a completely new study, as the SF is proposing? I could be tempted to say yes, but I think it is basically sensible to insist that the authorities who have been on this matter should finish their work. It is clear that when there is new information that has emerged from the inspector's approach to the public in this area, then we have to take the matter up again. In what way must this be done await the conclusions of the authorities which have been instructed to excavate the causes and consequences of the fire. So we are prepared to wait until the authorities, despite being unhappy with the course they have taken, have the opportunity to submit their report and come up with their conclusions, and then we will decide what happens next. Because it is quite obvious that there is a surprise in the population that this has been so much misplaced as has been the case it is deeply critical. We support the SF in this, but we think it is wise to wait for the work of the authorities that are currently going on. And as I understand it, there is not so much time for them to come up with their conclusions and then we will decide what will happen afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527110914	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527110919	Thank you to the rapporteur for the clear criticism of the investigations that have been carried out. In July 2014, an employee approached the management of the Danish Maritime Authority and announced that he had important information that he wanted to have passed on to the Norwegian authorities, which had therefore just decided to resume the investigation into the Scandinavian Stars case. He was ordered by the Management of the Maritime Authority to provide this information only through official channels. But this information never went on because the Danish authorities decided not to pass it on. I just want to know whether the Socialist rapporteur is as shocked as I am that such a thing could take place in 2014.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527111006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527111009	Yes, I am.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527111015	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527111019	I am very pleased about that, and as a follow-up to that, I would say that much can be done by the Norwegian authorities, and I respect the fact that they say: OK, let us look at the study that is coming in Norway. But it is not up to the Norwegian authorities, for example. investigating what makes the Danish authorities secretive of information intended for the Norwegian authorities and failing to forward information even if the person concerned begs and asks for it. It is a purely Danish responsibility. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: will the Socialists not be looking into why this has happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527111043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527111046	We are waiting for what comes from the authorities and for the information contained therein, plus what we know about the matter. Then we'll decide how to get this excavated. We have an obligation as a society to examine this in depth. What has happened is, to put it mildly, out of order.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527111107	Thank you. The next question is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527111110	Thank you. Sir. Orla Hav said he could understand impatience. But now 26 years have passed, and when we had a major question debate in 1997, it was shut down and a proposal was adopted that if new information were to be provided, it should be resumed. This bill and there's a reason why it's a bill and not a motion for a resolution... requires a study group to look only at what is a purely Danish matter. The rapporteur is right to say that a division of labour was made at the time, but the Norwegians have not come to us and have asked: is it okay for us as a parliament to set up a commission, because you have also been part of this? No, they decided in their parliament. The bill here is designed in such a way that it will not overlap with the Norwegians' cooperation. This is about Danish authorities and the Danish responsibility that we got and took back then, and what has been the process ever since. It is covered in this way, and it is limited to six months, because I could foresee all the comments that would come, that we should not now have a year-long commission and that we should not overlap with the Norwegians' cooperation. This is limited to only what is Danish responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527111228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527111231	I just have to say that I assume that when you shut down in 1997 it was on the basis of the information you had at that time. The fact is that, unfortunately, new disturbing information has emerged which gives rise to the impatience of the SF at this stage, and this is, moreover, an impatience to the matter that we share. That it would then serve any purpose, that Denmark should go alone and put its process in parallel into what is currently taking place, we do not share the view of. We would like to have the conclusions that the Norwegians had to reach. Then we will decide what will happen afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527111315	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527111318	[Sound emission] Danish officials. They can't get all the material. They're dealing with the assassination fire. What is our business is to say: when 159 people are murdered, one third of them Danish citizens, it is unacceptable that it is detained and not passed on to the Norwegians when someone comes and says that they have crucial knowledge. It is a Danish responsibility. The Norwegians will not be concerned about this. If, as I can hear, the Social Democrats will not support this proposal, will they be required to instruct the government to send all the material relating to this matter to the Norwegians and ask the Norwegians if they will investigate the Danish authorities? I hope the rapporteur can hear how absurd the situation is that the Norwegian Commission should investigate the role of Danish authorities in the part that has taken place over the last few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527111416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527111418	Yes, I agree. It would be absurd if that were the case. The situation has been explained by the Minister. The most recent information is that the persons concerned are in particular: Flemming Thue Jensen has been questioned by the Danish authorities with the presence of the Norwegian authorities. And I certainly have the expectation that the Danish authorities, through the Minister for Justice's intervention, will help to expose everything that is needed in order to reach the rightful conclusions on this deeply, deeply tragic matter. So what we will do afterwards, when we see what the Norwegians write, we will look at when we have the Norwegian conclusions. We are prepared to get to the bottom of this matter. The survivors have a right to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527111509	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527111520	Thank you. It is nice and liberating to hear that the rapporteur fully acknowledges that this whole process has been deeply, deeply critical. That was one of the first things the rapporteur said in his speech. What I can't understand is: When you acknowledge how critical the whole process has been 26 years is a long time, that's a lot of years, why don't you say right away: Well, let's open up again? The Norwegians are in the process, but they do not have the far-reaching powers, if I may say so, to go down into Danish archives and see the notes that could have been made there, interrogate witnesses etc. I do not understand why the Socialists need to say that they are kicking the case to the corner until the Norwegians are finished, and then you can start opening up. Why don't you do it right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527111602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527111604	Well, you can write thick books about what you don't understand. We are now of the opinion that the cooperation that has taken place in trying to find out all the causes of the tragic shipwreck and arson must continue and that we must get to the bottom of it. We must continue along that path and maintain the authorities that have been involved in the matter and we must ensure that all three countries continue to play a positive role in achieving this. And then, when there are conclusions, we agree to decide what to do on the Danish side to follow this tragic case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527111645	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527111648	The rapporteur himself acknowledged in one of his answers that, and now it is just freely quoted, there was new disturbing information since the events of 1997, i.e. when a decision was taken in this Chamber. But when you say that we are dealing with something new, it was for the public at least, I did not know it, and it was a bit of a surprise to read the newspapers on that front, I do not understand why you do not recognise it immediately and then of course open up and say that it should of course be examined to the bottom and follow the proposal that is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527111718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527111722	Well, we don't refuse to open. However, we would just like the authorities to have the opportunity to get to the bottom of the new information that is currently on the table and in the light of the way they have chosen to work from the very beginning of the case, so we are sure that all the knowledge that has been gathered will also be used in the conclusion of what will happen afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527111744	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Peter Kofod Poulsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527111756	Thank you, President. I would like to start by expressing my sincere thanks to the Socialist People's Party for putting forward a legislative proposal in this area. We can of course take the conclusion first: I think it is a very good and sensible proposal which the Danish People's Party intends to support. After all, it is a question of elucidating the ownership and circumstances of the Danish Maritime Authority's investigation into the case and the circumstances concerning the role of other Danish authorities in the case. And then we have to look at whether there is any reason to set up a proper committee of inquiry in this matter. These are all initiatives that we in the Danish People's Party can wholeheartedly support. It is actually grotesque to stand here and debate the matter now after 26 years, when there has been no end and relatives have many unanswered questions, which they rightly must be furious about and sorry have not been answered in the past. I also find it deeply problematic that you keep kicking the ball to the corner in this case and waiting. For the time being, I think we have been waiting for a very, very long time without providing the necessary clarification on the matter. So all in all, there is no reason to take it out, because the proposal is so good that we can actually just give a recommendation right away. The Danish People's Party clearly supports the proposal that has been put forward here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527111936	There is one brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527111941	I would just like to thank you very much, and I would also like to acknowledge the DF for being a party that has always asked critical questions and helped raise debates in this Chamber, including with the Enhedslisten. For many, many years, there have been some fiery souls in our parties who have ensured that this case did not die out. So it is just a thank you for the support today and also a thank you for the historic efforts for the victims and the relatives, who, as the rapporteur says, cannot put a stop to this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112019	Thank you. I'll make sure I get it on with my party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112026	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next speaker in line is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112038	Thank you. Thanks also to SF, which, with this private bill, wants a study group to be set up to investigate and clarify three basic circumstances relating to the fire on the Scandinavian Star. Firstly, the ownership of the ship, secondly, the investigation by the Danish Maritime Authority of the fire and subsequent statements on the process, and thirdly, the role of the Danish authorities in the matter. After all, the Minister has already thoroughly examined the original investigation, the ongoing Norwegian investigation and the whole purpose of the investigation commission set up, so I will refrain from repeating those words. Instead, I would like to stress that I share and fully understand the feelings of the survivors, the relatives and everyone else involved in the terrible and tragic accident in order to obtain final clarification. It's not something that can bring the dead back, but it can give some kind of peace of mind that there's an explanation why the fire on the Scandinavian Star happened. For such an accident puts permanent wounds right into the innermost of the soul, and that is why we in the Left are of course in no other position to agree entirely that this matter should be examined in depth. That is both right and fair. But at the same time, of course, the Confederal Group of the European United Left agrees with the Minister that two studies are currently under way in Norway, and rather than starting a separate Danish study, we think it is right to wait for the results of the two Norwegian studies, because a staggered Danish study on something of the same does not make much sense. Against this background, therefore, the Left cannot support the bill, although we have a great deal of sympathy for the intentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112243	Thank you. There are some brief comments, and the first questioner is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112249	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left what the Left thinks of the fact that there are bodies in the public sector which refuse to communicate information to the Norwegian authorities which, despite the request of employees and former employees who claim to hold important knowledge, refuse to communicate this information in this case to the Norwegian authorities. How's the Left feeling about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112321	I mean, it's a postulate that I just can't relate to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112324	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112329	Well, it is not a postulate, that is, there was a consultation on that here the other day in the Committee on Legal Affairs, where I think the rapporteur of the Left is sitting and where it was quite clear from the papers that some documents have been handed over to the Maritime Authority. The person concerned was told that you must not pass on to them yourself, after which they never passed on to the Norwegian authorities in spite of their wishes. How's the Left feeling about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112352	I would therefore very much like to be able to answer the question more satisfactorily. It is true that I am on the Legal Affairs Committee. I am also on other committees, I think they are ten other committees in total. I was not in favour of the consultation in question, so unfortunately I cannot answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112402	Next, Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112405	The rapporteur keeps calling it an accident, a tragic accident. Well, that's not what we need to get answers to. It was a murder fire in which 159 people were murdered. We do not yet know who and why. Denmark was actually responsible for finding ownership. Therein there could also be a pretty obvious motive for arson, for an arson. We haven't made that promise. There are some people who have been given six months' booklet because they themselves said: Yes, yes, yes, it was us, it was us, we take that on ourselves. There is a great deal of doubt about this, and I believe that the rapporteur fully agrees with the issue of ownership. There are so many things that have nothing to do with the Norwegian survey, but which have something to do with Danish authorities, the Danish part of the survey, that the Norwegians will not deal with and the Commission will not deal with; they cannot question Danish authorities under witness responsibility. Not all documents are passed on to the Norwegians. We owe it to the Danish relatives and victims to end this case. This has nothing to do with the Norwegian Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112524	It is a mistake that I use the word accident, certainly. Crime would be much more appropriate, completely agreed, and we agree that clarification needs to be found. We simply believe that now we are waiting for the Norwegian survey, and what will happen after that, I have not stood here and taken a position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112538	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112540	Why should we wait for the Norwegian survey? The Norwegian study has nothing to do with this, that it has been 11⁄2 years, when Flemming Thue Jensen's information has not moved on, which would never have moved on if he had not gone out in the press with it. That's one part. The second part, which is described in the bill, is about what is entirely Denmark's responsibility. I knew that there would never be a majority for a commission, a large commission. That is why it is limited to only that which is Denmark's responsibility, that which is not examined by the Norwegian Commission, that which concerns us alone, that which we are solely responsible for vis-à-vis Danish citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112622	No, but there would be a parallel process that would be inappropriate. There would be, and that is why. So let us see what the Norwegians are getting at, and let us see what is needed then.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112632	The next question is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112637	Now this is also about whether there have been mistakes here in Denmark with the Danish authorities. What I asked the rapporteur's colleague, the Minister, was the information that Flemming Thue Jensen brought to the Maritime Authority, which was then not passed on and was used. The answer I received earlier today was that the Minister also does not understand why Flemming Thue Jensen has waited so long. It came to sound to me as if it was Flemming Thue Jensen's problem that this had not come out and had become part of the investigation. Something was also said in the sense that if we know something as citizens, then we must come forward with it, that then we have a duty to do so. That's exactly what Flemming Thue Jensen has done. So I don't quite understand. If I know anything about a crime and I go to the authorities and the authorities do not use it or go ahead with it, is it my problem as a citizen, or is it the authorities who make a mistake?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112745	I don't want to judge anyone, but 26 years is a very, very long time. I do not understand that that information has not been disclosed in the past. But I do not want to place responsibility, because I am not going to do the study that the proposers think should be carried out, so I do not want to pass judgment, but I would like to say that I am very surprised that so vital information is coming out so late.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112806	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112810	I am very pleased that the rapporteur says so, because it seems strange, and that is also what it is important to have examined, namely why it has neither progressed in the system nor been recorded until a journalist applied for access to documents. So there are clearly some things we need to investigate. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112832	I can't relate to that at this stage. Let us see what the Norwegians' investigation results and then let us take the debate again at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112840	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Søren Søndergaard as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527112856	I would like to start by thanking the SF for the proposal. We can support this, even if in committee we are willing to cut both a heel and a toe in order to obtain a broad majority in order to get at least one step further in solving this terrible crime. Let us be clear: the brand on the Scandinavian Star was no accident, it was no accident, it was a crime, it cost 159 people their lives, and it is the most serious crime known in Scandinavia since the Second World War. Despite the seriousness of the work, much remained to be desired, to put it mildly. For example: Very obvious clues were not investigated either by the Norwegian authorities or by the Danish authorities. Yet many settled in, for a perpetrator was appointed by the Minister of Justice. He died during the fire himself and could not therefore be prosecuted, but it was true. Many relatives and many who had work on the matter could not quite understand it. They couldn't make it fit together, but they resigned. The authorities had to know something that wasn't widely available. This illusion burst in 2014, when the Norwegian police had to acknowledge that they had no concrete evidence against the man in question, absolutely nothing. Basically, he was no more suspect than everyone else on board the ship that fateful night. Therefore, the Norwegian authorities have initiated a new investigation. That is also why we are discussing the situation here today. We are not faced with an unsolved crime, we are faced with an unsolved murder of 159 people, and therefore every decency naturally suggests that we go back and take a critical look at the part of the overall investigation in which the Danish authorities were involved, both to see if there are any conclusions that need to be changed in the new light, and in particular to ensure that all relevant information and resource persons are immediately made available to the Norwegian authorities and their investigation. That is our own responsibility. Unfortunately, we have to note that this is not what has happened and we have a very concrete example. In July 2014, Captain Flemming Thue Jensen made a request to the Danish Maritime Authority. Flemming Thue Jensen was not a Mr. Anyone. He was one of the first to come aboard after the fire and therefore had a unique first impression. As a starting point, his information had therefore to be considered incredibly relevant for the review initiated by the Norwegian authorities in 2014 and which was precisely the starting point for Flemming Thue Jensen's request. On the one hand, we had a first-hand witness who wanted to get rid of information, on the other hand, we had a Norwegian investigation that wanted information. Nevertheless, we note that the transfer of information from Flemming Thue Jensen to the Norwegian authorities was blocked by something along the way. And we know exactly where the group that blocked the information is. They're somewhere in the Maritime Authority, the Attorney General, the Attorney General, or the Ministry of Justice. One of the three places, or some of the three places together, was decided that the information that Flemming Thue Jensen wanted to go further was blocked from going further. This is a very serious matter. For this leads to a very simple question: how much other information is around with the Danish authorities and with former employees who have not been passed on to the Norwegian survey? How many are there? This question must, of course, be clarified, because as long as it remains uncertain, Denmark is not part of the investigation of Scandinavia's worst crime 70 years, so long we are part of the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527113408	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next honourable speaker is Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527113416	The Socialist People's Party has put forward a proposal to set up a rapid-working study group on the fire at Scandinavian Star. I would say that we actually have a lot of sympathy for the SF proposal. I can see from the look on Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's face that she is already thinking: then I can hear where it ends. And perhaps that is also true, because we are not going to vote in favour of the proposal. We think that there are many things that have been strange about the course that has been about Scandinavian Star. It cannot be claimed that it seems as if it has gone down a straight line, and we have a great deal of sympathy for the trauma and unpleasantness which has also resulted for a number of the relatives. There are things going on in Norway, and our starting point is that we will wait for the study that is going on up there before we think any further Danish steps should be taken. But that also means that we do not deny that further Danish steps can be taken at a later stage, and therefore it is good to have this proposal, if not in the archive, so in the parliamentary system, so that we can resume the debate on it, depending on how it ends in Norway. So I do not think the work is wasted, even if there is no majority in favour of the proposal now, because it may well be relevant, depending on what is happening in our Nordic neighbouring country. But we are rejecting it at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527113607	Thank you. And there are some brief comments. The first question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527113613	I understand the reasoning of the Liberal Alliance, but it must then be based on the premise that the Norwegian authorities actually have access and access to all relevant information in Denmark. I agree with the rapporteur on this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527113635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527113637	I am not quite sure what the underlying premise was in the question, so I hope the questioner will elaborate in his second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527113642	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527113645	Well, it was, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, that if it can be demonstrated that there is information that has been sent to Danish authorities and that the Danish authorities have deliberately failed to communicate to the Norwegian investigating authorities, then it is surely a matter we will have to investigate, at least in relation to the fact that there are no other similar cases where information does not go on to the Norwegian authorities. For Norway can only make a proper study of what Denmark should do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527113714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527113717	If it can be proved, as the questioner says, that is of course something that it is relevant to go into. So, I understand that the former employee who appeared earlier this year has spoken to the Norwegian authorities and that at least what he says is part of the Norwegian study. We have to assume that that is correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527113738	The next question is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527113741	A great deal of sympathy has been expressed in this Chamber today. I just don't think that's what the survivors and relatives really need. They need a period. There are several rapporteurs who have referred to the Norwegian Commission, but the Norwegian Commission has nothing to do with what we are proposing. That's exactly why we've drafted the bill this way. We are not going in and opening a new big commission to look at the assassination fire, etc. It must look at what is Denmark's responsibility, what is not covered by the Norwegians, where there may have been a failure of authority. I don't understand. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, as rapporteur for a liberal party, can say: we are not taking the side of the citizens against a system that has clearly failed. We are waiting for a Commission which has nothing to do with what we are proposing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527113834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527113837	I cannot help being a little crazy about Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's premise that a liberal party is, of course, particularly interested in the position of citizens in relation to systems. I agree with that. But when I look at what has been proposed, I do not deny that this can be relevant either. It is fair enough that a proposal has been put forward and can be impatient in relation to whether it should be implemented right now. What we are saying is: we will now wait for the Norwegian study. Then I do not reject the fact that there may be outstanding balances after that, which can make it impossible to put a stop at that time and that further action needs to be taken. All I'm saying is that we have to take things in the right order. So we disagree on that. However, I think that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen should rejoice and note what I am saying, namely that we do not refuse to look at it further after the Norwegian study.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527113930	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527113933	Well, I'm not happy about that, because I'm not convinced that Mr. Simon Emil and the Liberal Alliance don't think there's no need for this, and don't see that this isn't being covered by the Norwegian investigation. Sir. Simon Emil didn't answer Mr. Søren Søndergaard's question as to whether the Danish government, the Danish authorities, must deliver everything. So I ask again, clearly: Does Mr. Søndergaard expect us to do so? Simon Emil, that the Danish government and Danish authorities provide all relevant material without exception to the Norwegian authorities, since we have now delegated our responsibility to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527114013	I should just like to recommend that the questioner speaks in future, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll then it is the rapporteur to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527114023	I understood, though. Listen to this: I expect what the Norwegian Commission of Inquiry is asking the Danish authorities to deliver to Danish authorities. I expect that to happen. What I also promise does not matter whether Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is satisfied or dissatisfied is that there will be a result of the survey in Norway. If there are still things that we consider important to investigate, we would like to do so, and I still think Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen should be pleased about that, despite the fact that she does not want to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527114106	Thank you, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. We move forward in the series of rapporteurs, and the next is Mrs Pernille Schnoor as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527114118	In April 1990 there was a tragic disaster on the ship Scandinavian Star. There occurred up to several violent fires on the ship that unfortunately led to the death of 159 people. It soon became clear that fire was being set, that is, arson. Despite the fact that it is now 26 years ago, there are still uncertainties and loose ends in the matter. For example, it is still so many years later unclear who set the fires and what the motives were for it. And new information in the case from Flemming Thue Jensen, which was the Danish Maritime Authority's main investigator in 1990, creates renewed uncertainty about the Danish authorities' handling of the matter. Flemming Thue Jensen tried to pass on information to the investigation, but this information never reached the Norwegian authorities in connection with the investigation, which was resumed in 2014. Flemming Thue Jensen's key information was also not reported until a journalist in April of this year asked for access to the file. So one and a half years after Flemming Thue Jensen provided the information. We are now discussing L 171, which is a proposal for a law setting up a rapid-working study group on the fire at Scandinavian Star. The alternative believes that it is important to bring any errors into the light, and we therefore support the fact that a rapid investigation group will clarify the circumstances of the role of the Maritime Authority and the other Danish authorities in the matter and whether the results of the investigations carried out give rise to the setting up of a commission of inquiry. The Scandinavian Star disaster in 1990 has been the subject of extensive studies. There has been criticism from many quarters, most recently when Flemming Thue Jensen, who was then centrally located as captain of the Maritime Authority, spoke to the public. Flemming Thue Jensen did his duty; he came forward with the information and when he found out that the information had not progressed, he went to the press and the public with the information. It can never be Flemming Thue Jensen's fault. There are, therefore, many questions that are pressing for • not least in relation to the Danish authorities' handling of the matter. This is important not least in respect of all the persons who have party to the Scandinavian Star scandal, either as relatives of persons who died in the disaster, or otherwise that the questions and doubts are taken seriously by setting up an independent and independent investigation group. That is why the alternative supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527114444	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Martin Lidegaard as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527114456	Let me start by thanking the proposers for a very relevant and important proposal. And let me also say quite frankly that this is a proposal that we have discussed fairly intensively in the radical group and that we will wait for the debate today before we finally take a position on it. This is because we are fully in line with the rapporteurs who have been up here and say that there is now an even very thorough study going on in Norway, which one might perhaps be able to wait for the result before putting the pieces from a possible Danish study to the right, as one could then do it more precisely and perhaps also save some work and focus, one can say, more precisely on the role of the Danish authorities in this and also better clarify it. So that is the argument for waiting for the Norwegian studies. But there are certainly good arguments for starting a Danish study, and for us to see the two best arguments for this is what several of the rapporteurs have already pointed out, namely that, in addition to the tragedy itself, the fire itself, the very crime that was committed there, there has been a course of action which in itself calls for, one can safely say, a certain wonder and leaves incredibly many questions. And even though Norway investigates the actual foundation of the fire and the crime itself, the role of the Danish authorities is not the focus of the Norwegian studies. And in addition to that there is the second argument, namely that it could then be that some of what was found in such a Danish study could be used in the Norwegian studies. So it is important to see the case from both sides, and there are good arguments, we think, for both sides. One thing that cannot be discussed is that it is one of the greatest tragedies in Danish history, and that the subsequent game of solving this crime has been one coherent nightmare for the relatives involved in this, and that we therefore owe it to this proposal to give a very, very thorough consideration. We will listen to the debate, perhaps also ask some questions, and then explain our final position at second reading or in the report's contribution that may become relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527114715	Thank you. And there are some brief comments. The first question is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527114720	Thank you. I would like to thank Martin Lidegaard and the Radical Left for not shutting it down in advance at least. I also think that Mr. Martin Lidegaard himself said it quite aptly, that is, what the Radicals at any rate stress, namely that the Norwegian Commission cannot question Danish authorities under witness responsibility, and they cannot get all documents etc., so that part of it they will not be dealing with at all. This is exactly how the events have taken place not only over the last few years, but also before and after the assassination. It is, of course, Denmark's responsibility, and it was also the part that was imposed on us and that we took on us after the assassination fire, that is to say that we wanted to investigate ownership, insurance, taxation, etc., but those things are still in the dark. So I would just like to say thank you for the openness and then I would like to hear the rapporteur say something: if there is no majority in favour of a study now, will the Radical Left promise that, when the Norwegian Commission is finished, and if there are still unanswered questions, at the latest at that time, we will have a Danish clarification?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527114840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527114844	It can be said that the argument for not taking a position now and for not starting a study group now should be that there could be some things in the Norwegian study which could be used in a Danish study afterwards in order to uncover the Danish authorities' treatment of this case. And, of course, it is also true that if there are unresolved questions and serious doubts about the Danish handling of this, you will of course make a study group at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527114907	We'll move on to the next question, and that's sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527114914	I would like to thank the radical rapporteur because the radical rapporteur cuts to the bone with the remark that it is essential to ensure that Norway, once we have outsourced this study to Norway and await it, receives all relevant information. That is precisely what matters. We can then discuss whether we should adopt this proposal, whether there is too much in this proposal, etc., or whether we should just, I would have liked to say, try to make, for example. a report in the Committee on Legal Affairs which ensures that all relevant information is passed on to Norway. Because it is not enough to say that the Norwegian authorities can simply ask. How are the Norwegian authorities going to ask you something they don't know about? You do not know that somewhere in the Danish civil service there is an official who has written to his superiors: I would like to be interrogated and I would like to pass on some information. Is this something on which the Radicals will be prepared in committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527115015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527115018	I certainly think it is worthwhile to end the political process here with a report, and we should think very carefully about how we write it, because the simplest thing will of course be to impose on the government and I will guess that the government itself will also be interested in delivering the full and whole truth if questions come from Norwegian authorities for use in the investigation. It is a little simpler than having to make a statement that you have to pass on yes, what information? That is precisely what is at the heart of this, because we do not have an overview of what the Danish authorities have known and have not known and done and have not done. We are happy to take part in the general discussion, if I may say so, on how such a report could be combined, because to the extent that there are doubts, for example. whether the ownership held by the Danish authorities and which Norway may ask about, we should, of course, provide that information.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527115124	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527115127	I don't know if I should understand it that way, but I think Mr. Martin Lidegaard is not really, it is a very serious matter that Danish authorities, who have been contacted by people who have a unique knowledge of this disaster and who announce that they wish to be questioned by Norwegian authorities, do not pass the message on to the Norwegian authorities? You don't even want to go out and talk to that person about what that person knows. Well, isn't it a very, very serious matter? Now, if we imagined it was a terrorist action in which 159 people had been killed over at the City Hall Square, how would we react if some Danish authorities had such an approach and just left it behind and did not let it go on? Isn't this a very serious matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527115216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527115219	I must admit that, if this is what happened, it is both a very serious matter and, of course, totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527115226	The next question is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527115229	It is actually within the same theme, one might say. I recognise, of course, that Radicals are open to this, but I would like to stick to it here with the ambiguities that exist in relation to the Danish authorities' handling of key vital information in this matter. Does the rapporteur think it is right that there are these uncertainties about the administration's handling, or does the rapporteur agree that it should also be examined how the Danish authorities have handled this information, alongside the Norwegian study?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527115312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527115314	No, perhaps I can put it quite simply and clearly: we certainly believe that all stones should and should be turned around in this matter. I see the discussion today mostly as a question of in which order we do it and how we do it most appropriately.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527115326	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527115332	After all, it is beyond doubt that information has come to the attention of 11⁄2 years ago, which has not been passed on, and which a person who was previously employed by the Maritime Authority himself had to go out to the press and tell about, because the information was not passed on. That is why I think it is important. It is also indisputable that that information has not been recorded for one reason or another until a journalist from Information applies for access to the file for one year and a half years later. Therefore, I would like to hear: why should we wait for the Norwegian authorities when this is all about the Danish authorities' handling of key information in the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527115417	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527115420	The argument for possibly waiting will, of course, be that in the Norwegian study which is currently under way, there can be a great deal more information about what has happened, of course, partly during the arson itself, partly in the months after, which one has also been able to choose to include in a Danish study of what has happened on Danish soil after the fire, and the Danish authorities' handling of it. So that's the argument for waiting, you might say. The argument against, of course, is that there may be some information here that could be used in the Norwegian study, and therefore it might well be that a good place to land this would be, as Mr. Søren Søndergaards says that we might now and here have a political agreement that the Danish government will of course provide the information requested by the Norwegian Government for its investigations, and that we will then wait to decide on a possible Danish study of Danish authorities until the Norwegian study is completed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527115512	I note that the Minister for Justice wishes to make a brief comment, but we follow the custom that exists with the Minister being welcome to come to the floor later. We are therefore moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr Beazley's position. Søren Pape Poulsen as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527115533	It is a bit crazy, in fact, that we are discussing a matter in this Chamber that is 26 years old. Nevertheless, it is absolutely necessary that we do so. I remember well when, at 18, I was standing in Silkeborg Halls for the Country Council in Conservative Youth and we held one minute's silence after the disaster. It's crazy to think that when you were 18 years old, yes, now I'm a little older and that it's a case that's been running for so long. It's a tragedy and a disaster of the greats. Studies have been carried out, and information is still available many years later. Since we are there, I think, in fact, that, in the interests of the many people who have had this in their lives, we owe it to us to do everything we can to get to the bottom of the matter. That is why I think the proposal for a rapid-working study group is very good. Let us clarify the three points raised by the SF and then take a position on the further process. I think it is very wise that instead of starting a huge job, we should clarify these things and then take the further process. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527115654	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527115658	I am really, really happy about that, and I think it is the proper thing to do because there are so many Danish citizens who died in the assassination fire and who also have relatives and relatives who can't move on when there's no end and who see over and over again that there are loose ends and things that haven't been lifted on the Danish side. That is precisely not what the Norwegian Commission is going to focus on. And then, and I think the rapporteur and the chairman of the Conservative People's Party also agree, of course, with the Danish responsibility and the responsibility of the Danish Parliament to ensure that we treat these people properly by also bringing the matter to a conclusion. Such things cannot be delegated to other countries. But just to say thank you and to thank Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen's party colleague, sir. Tom Behnke, who for many, many years has been involved in this case and has done a great job.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527115804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527115814	Thank you. I'll pass that on to Mr. Knox. Tom Behnke, or else I fully agree with the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527115817	The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527115818	No, it was almost the same thing. I just wanted to say thank you both for your speech. Søren Pape Poulsen and also ask the rapporteur to convey his thanks to the people of the Conservative People's Party who have been working on this matter for many years. It has been absolutely crucial that this has not become a party political matter. This is not something we want, and that is also why, in the consultation that has been the prelude to this, we have stressed to both the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Industry that we do not impose any responsibility on them in relation to something that happened so many years ago. This should be a common cause for the whole parliament to solve. The Conservative People's Party is contributing to this, and I would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527115906	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527115907	I say thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527115917	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. I now give the floor to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527115930	Twenty-six years ago, 159 people were murdered in the greatest crime since World War II. It was not an accident, it was not a coincidence, it was a premeditated arson which, unfortunately, we still do not know the full extent of today in terms of motive, who exactly did it, etc. About one third of the ship passengers who died were killed... were Danish citizens who left relatives, friends and family who have not been able to finish this case, among other things. because of the failure of the Danish authorities. I'm really glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Søren Søndergaard emphasized what I was hoping was obvious, but it was good to have it emphasized that this is not party politics. This happened 26 years ago... if the Minister of Justice speaks a little lower, I can get rid of my speech... Justice Minister, it's not party politics. Of course, the current Minister of Justice is not responsible for what happened many years ago. No politician is responsible for the assassination fire. They're the only ones who set the fire, that's it. But we are responsible for ensuring that all the information comes for one day and that this matter is put to a close. We cannot delegate that to another country, to another country's parliament, to another country's commission. The Norwegian Commission must look at the arson, at what happened, because for many years they had also appointed a completely innocent man as the backman of this arson. When they realized to the Norwegian Parliament and to the Norwegian public that for so many years it was the wrong one that had been appointed, they took the natural step and said: then we must get a commission going. But that has nothing to do with what we are proposing today, which is to say: at the time, after the assassination fire, Sweden, Denmark and Norway shared the tasks between themselves. Denmark was responsible for the ownership, insurance, taxation, etc. of the ship. But quickly some people came and said: Hello, it is we who own it and are behind it etc. And then they got six months of booklet. One could have gone deeper into it and looked at the fact that there were some really strange things both in relation to the ship and previous ships compared to the ownership circle and the investors who were behind it. There were so many woolly things. Why does it matter? Of course it is not, because if there is arson, there is also a motive. And what might the motive be? Well, it can, among other things. be and now I'm just thinking out loud... incredibly many millions of dollars in insurance money. It is certainly a hypothesis which one must consider if one goes in and looks at ownership and some of the things that have happened. We did not lift our responsibilities well enough there. This is one of the things we need to get to the bottom of so we can close the case. Something else has happened over the last few years, namely that there was a inspector who could not really understand that there was a Danish lorry driver who was appointed as the culprit. But he thought that the authorities had to get that under control. Then the discussion starts again in Norway because everyone agrees that it was of course not the Danish truck driver. And, of course, the inspector goes to his old place of work, the Maritime Authority, and says that as a private individual he has a knowledge which he will of course have to take on both because of the responsibility he has and for moral reasons to pass on to the Norwegian commission that is being set in motion now. But they say, no, no, you can't. It may be that it is information about 159 people who have been murdered, but it must go through the right channels. Let's take it from here. And that happens after a discussion with the DA. Fine, but what happens next? It is addressed to the Ministry of Justice and to the Attorney General, who almost says that unless he has seen a person standing with a match in his hand, it is not relevant. It is not fair that one of the most central people in this case, who says that he has decisive knowledge, is refused to pass on that knowledge as a private individual. And since it has to go through the right channels, it's stopped. It's not gonna get any further. It would never have moved on if this person hadn't gone to the media with his knowledge. We need to shut this case down once and for all and not shut down in such a way that we do not want to talk about it, that we do not want to finish our work, but shut down by clarifying all the things that need to be clarified, and the Norwegian Commission cannot do that. After all, the Norwegian Commission cannot receive all the material from the Danish Government. The Norwegian Commission cannot interrogate Danish authorities under witness responsibility. And it is not the Norwegian Commission's job to clean up this morass or ensure that the Danish authorities lift their responsibilities satisfactorily. None of this is the responsibility of the Norwegian Commission, nor should they. When the Minister for Justice and others say that you will have to send documents or when other rapporteurs say that they can just ask for them, I would say that they do not know what to ask for. No, they don't know that. And, of course, the Minister of Justice will not say that he will send confidential documents to a Norwegian Commission. So this has nothing to do with the Norwegian Commission. The bill is precisely a bill, because we know that the government does not respect the parliamentary majority behind the motion for a resolution. It is precisely cut so that it does not overlap with the work of the Norwegian Commission. Because we could predict that if we made that proposal, some would say: Well, we shouldn't have both a Norwegian and a Danish commission. No, we cut it so that what is a Danish responsibility, and what is about the role of the Danish authorities and the history of it, is what we are looking at alone. It is time-limited, because what we are discussing in relation to commissions is that they take an incredibly long time. It is limited to 6 months, and if there are loose ends then the study group must make an assessment and make a recommendation. It's not a hoofsa proposal. I haven't been rapporteur for that long, but this is based on the work that Mr. Søren Søndergaard has made for the Enhedslisten, which Mr. Tommy Dinesen has made for the SF, and as mr. Tom Behnke has been making a lot of people and parties in this Parliament has been working with for a lot of years. I have mentioned several times that there was a question debate in May 1997. It was shut down. The attorney general said that the investigation would not be resumed because criminal liability was obsolete. Okay, but whatever it is, aren't we supposed to have knowledge? We also write in the comments to the bill that, regardless of whether the assessment is that there is a limitation period I am not a lawyer, so I should not be able to say if there is • we need everything to come out. Sometimes we just have political disagreements in this Chamber, and that is fair enough. But I haven't been convinced by a single argument in here that this isn't a good idea when everyone says it's horrible that everything hasn't come out. Yes, there are criticisms and so on, but there have been no factual reasons why it should not be started. There is no need to wait for the Norwegian Commission, because it is not about the same thing. So I think relatives and survivors don't give a damn about the sympathy that comes to them from in here. That has been said incredibly many times before. I think they would like a line to be drawn in this process, for it to be clarified and for the matter to be closed in such a way that they have gained knowledge and certainty of what has happened. However, I hear from some of the parties that will not support this, that further action must be taken, that the matter should not be buried again. That is why, of course, we are working on it and we must see what we can do together so that this matter is not shut down and we can move on. However, I would like to send a huge thank you to those parties that support this, and a great deal of thanks to the people who are here today, some of whom have worked tirelessly for many, many years, to ensure that there is justice and certainty for the victims and the relatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527120908	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. No brief comments have been asked. The Minister of Justice wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527120921	I have to say that, to put it mildly, I am somewhat amazed at some of the statements that have been made in this context. It is claimed that there is no party politics, but at the same time it is said that those who do not participate have no respect for the relatives and what else is said. I just think it's too much. What has happened is not, in my view, the conspiracy which Mr. Søren Søndergaard expresses himself. And with regard to the information that came out in 2014, which is now in the possession of the Norwegian authorities, no matter how you turn it, it has taken 24-25 years before they have arrived. And we have to ask ourselves: why in the world have we carried so long on a knowledge that we thought was so crucial, without coming forward with it? What is the attitude of the government is that now that the Norwegians very soon in relation to the police investigation and in June 2017 in relation to the Stortingens survey come up with their views on the matter, it is not to put plasters on a wound to rip up something quite third in the Danish Parliament. This is the proper way to wait for the result and then decide on how to move forward instead of criticising the parties of the Folketing who want to see it properly done here. I would like to say it very simply, so the myth, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard has led and, as the Alternative also contributes, is not allowed to spread it was something that took place under the previous government, so I have no interest in interpreting it here in any other way than the quite quiet way that it happened in the way that, after it had emerged that the Norwegian police had reopened the investigation in 2014, addressed the Ministry of Justice by telephone about the reopened investigation. Following this, the Danish Public Prosecutor contacted the Danish Maritime Authority by telephone, which stated that some employees of the Danish Maritime Authority were interested in helping clarify the case. What the Attorney General told us about this was that it was a more general approach and, for example, a more general approach. no information on concrete evidence, etc., and therefore the Attorney General did not find any reason to contact the Oslo Police immediately. Nevertheless, on 23 February 2016, the Attorney General contacted Oslo Police to ensure that the Norwegian authorities had been made aware of the information. This happened after Flemming Thue Jensen had indicated to the public in February 2016 that he had information in the case that had not been disclosed before. And the Attorney General has stated that the information in question is part of the reopened investigation in Norway, and that among other things. Flemming Thue Jensen was interrogated on 16 March 2016 and I understand that there are some who say that it is not possible, but he did so by means of a judicial hearing involving Norwegian police, the Norwegian Public Prosecutor and a number of Norwegian assistance lawyers. Therefore, what is being made a major conspiracy is very simple about the fact that the information in question is in the possession of the Norwegian authorities and is part of their investigation. That's the way it is. I don't know if it's all the wounds of the bereaved, that you make this a huge cause. I'm not sure it is. But what we are doing now is awaiting the Norwegian investigation, and then the government reserves itself and I actually hear the same from all the parties who sit here and have the right to respond to what may arise in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527121343	This has led to a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527121352	It may well be that the Minister for Justice is not satisfied that we are some who think it is too bad that a Danish study cannot be initiated. But exactly Conservatives think this is the most proper thing to do, Radicals are also open to what DF supports. It's a mixed crowd of parties, this is not a red block against the blue block. Historically, it is from the Progress Party to DF to Enhedslisten, SF that has been involved in this case. Back in 1997, it was already many years ago, there was a question debate in the Danish Parliament, where we were told that we could not resume the case because the Attorney General felt that this was the statute of limitations in 1997. Now new information is coming out, and we say: can we not just cut it down to what concerns the Danish authorities alone and the Danish responsibilities? This has nothing to do with the Norwegian Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527121458	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527121501	I am well aware that this case has enjoyed public attention since 1997 and the question to which Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen refers, among other things. All the more important, then, is that we do things properly, that this is going on in a proper way, and to me it would seem very paradoxical if we were to embark on a completely new study, just when the Norwegians are standing and barring with results themselves. It is, in fact, just that, and I must say that there is nothing in the presentation I have received from the Danish authorities in this context, which immediately gives me cause for this very large modernity in the Danish people's government, that everything now has to be examined by some independent commission all the time, all the time. I do not think it is right to just keep yelling at independent investigations into this and that. This is certainly not a small matter, but it has also been discussed for a long time, and other authorities are in the process. Why not wait for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527121604	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527121606	I do not think, as a Danish parliamentarian, that it is possible to distribute such cases to other countries and say that it deals with the Norwegians. Even if we think they should, they cannot interrogate Danish authorities under witness responsibility. By the way, would the Minister like to ask, now that I have the opportunity to do so again, to ensure that all material relating in any way to Scandinavian Star is sent to the Norwegian Commission? No, the minister won't. Therefore, we need to take responsibility for ourselves and have a Danish survey. This isn't about what the Norwegians are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527121647	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527121649	But by doing so, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is making up her mind with all the construction that has been going on and the agreement between three countries on how this should be dealt with. What I just want to say is that the Danish authorities are at the disposal of the Norwegian authorities to the extent that they want it to be 100 percent, of course. I have also agreed to this in consultation, but that is obviously not enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527121716	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527121719	As you know, the best defense is an attack, and I am at least somewhat curious about what kind of myth formation I and the alternative, according to the Minister, are taking part in. What interests the Alternative and me is, among other things, why it was necessary for Flemming Thue Jensen himself to appear in the press with some vital and key information? Is that a proper term used by the Minister before handling by the authorities when receiving central information? For a consultation the other day, the Minister's colleague, Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen, who is also Minister, a slightly different angle to that, I think. For according to Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen, it was important to get everything out in this case. And I'd like to hear something about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527121826	You appeal to a minister in office or title. Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527121830	Well, the whole point is that everything is there in this case. But the only person whose statements we have that this is vital and key information is the person himself. And what becomes interesting when the Norwegian authorities now conclude will be to see if that is true. Well, that's gonna show up. Because so far, I'm not sure that's the case, but we have to see that. And that's what authorities are investigating.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527121905	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527121907	I don't quite understand. As far as the Maritime Authority is concerned, it has acknowledged that it was not reported until a journalist asked for access to the information that Flemming Thue Jensen provided. So I do not understand why the Minister does not recognise that there are actually some things that need to be investigated, i.e. some ambiguities that we should examine.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527121929	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527121930	Well, I can only say that it took 24-25 years for the person concerned to think it was so relevant that it should come to public knowledge. And I can only take note of that, and I can also note that there are some in the Danish Parliament who think that we should raise a huge, new independent study of it based on yes, on what really? at the same time as the Norwegian authorities are examining it. I think it is appropriate to wait for the Norwegian study before concluding on the nature of this information. That's just my point.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527122004	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527122007	I would just like, following on from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's question to the Minister, to give the Minister the opportunity to confirm quite clearly that if the Norwegian authorities had to contact the Danish authorities in order to obtain information, Denmark will of course provide all kinds of information that the Norwegians might be interested in. Will the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527122030	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527122034	Yeah, and I've done that several times. And that is also why I perhaps think that the debate takes on this conspiratorial character. Thank you to the questioner for asking the question, because yes, the Danish authorities will. I have said this under ministerial responsibility in a conciliation procedure, and now I say it in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527122048	Then there are no more brief remarks to the Minister, and in the second round Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527122101	I must admit that I do not think it is worthy of a minister to stand on the platform of the Folketing and judge the integrity of a named person. Especially when the Minister has taken as little notice of the matter as the Minister has. Therefore, I would like to read out a document that the Minister should be familiar with and written by the person in question, Flemming Thue Jensen, in 2014, when he approached the Maritime Authority. He writes: After the maritime statement · thus in 1990 and all the pieces had fallen into place, it was my conclusion that it happened was a deliberate evil act that could only have been done by parts of the ship's crew or a person with an in-depth knowledge of the ship. Was it a spontaneous act? No, it was a planned action, and there are several indications of this. It was therefore a shock to me when a truck driver was identified as the culprit. How could he find out? And listen to me, Minister: in the end, I realized that this had to be the case, assuming that the investigation had resulted in bulletproof evidence against the person concerned. So, Flemming Thue Jensen presented his knowledge but did not continue to present his knowledge because he assumed that what was claimed to have been found was correct. And then he goes on, but I didn't understand. I fell out of the chair a month ago when the chief of police in Oslo acknowledged that there was no technical evidence against him. Son of a bitch! What's going on here? Then Flemming Thue Jensen immediately went to the Danish Maritime Authority, sent a letter and said: I will have contact with the Norwegian authorities to tell them what I have experienced. For everything you've said about finding the culprit has proved to be a lie. And then what happened? Then it happened that he had a talk with the Maritime Authority, and the board said to him: "Don't go to the Norwegian authorities with that at all. All you have to do is shut up. It has to go through us. After which the Danish Maritime Authority then contacted the Ministry of Justice and the Public Prosecutor, after which the information does not pass on to the Norwegian authorities. And then the Minister for Justice says: Well, the Norwegian authorities have them. Yes, it is true that the Norwegian authorities have them. But why do the Norwegian authorities have them? Because they got them from the Attorney General, the Ministry of Justice or the Maritime Authority? No, they have them because Flemming Thue Jensen, when he retired from the Maritime Authority, himself went out and published it in February 2016, and then was questioned in March 2016. Against this background, I think it is rather strange that we have a Minister of Justice who feels the need to judge a particular person for keeping things secret when the greatest crime one can accuse that person is to have had confidence in the authorities and the claims of the authorities. Furthermore, I would like to say that, in relation to what the Minister is saying here, it is very strange that the Minister cannot understand that the Maritime Authority obviously has a duty to pass on the information. But that obligation to pass on the information is, of course, reduced, what to say, when it involves the Ministry of Justice and the Public Prosecutor. And that is precisely why the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs has called the Minister for Justice in a closed consultation so that the Minister for Justice can explain who exactly is in the Ministry of Justice and in the Public Prosecutor's Office who is responsible for the fact that that information did not go further despite the wishes of the person concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527122503	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen in round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527122514	Now, sir. Søren Søndergaard said much of what I wanted to say, but I have something more to add. As you can read in the comments to the bill, Denmark had to deal, in relation to the historical division of work between Norway, Sweden and Denmark, with the ship's ownership, the ship's condition at departure from Frederikshavn and insurance and tax matters. It is still evident to many a great mystery how to determine ownership of a ship when the money does not fall when it is registered in the Bahamas, when it is an American company that must have paid out a gigantic insurance sum, and when the person who says he is the owner takes six months' imprisonment. These are some of the things that were Denmark's responsibility at the time, and where we think there are large spots in that statement both about ownership and the ship's condition. Well, I don't think it could have passed anyone by that ship should never have sailed out. At first it could not even be insured with the Shoulder, the insurance company, because it was in such a poor condition and there were such great shortcomings. The Minister of Justice feels a certain amount of anger here today and thinks that we are some who are unfair because we think the only right thing is to conduct a Danish study, which is limited in the ways I have said several times before: it does not overlap with the Norwegian Commission; it is limited to six months; it concerns only what is explicitly Danish responsibility and the responsibility of the Danish authorities. We are told over and over again that we just have to wait a year, then we can take it up again; that is how it has been said over and over again. During the 1997 question debate, we were also told that, no, the matter could not be re-examined because there was a limitation period. Now a majority of the parties in this Chamber are making a text for adoption in which we say: don't worry, if something new comes out, we will look at it again. That's how time goes. That's not fair. There is nothing to prevent the Danish role in this process from being examined in parallel with the work of the Norwegian Commission. These are simply not factual, proper arguments, as we have heard today, in relation to not starting an investigation now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527122809	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527122826	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527122844	The motion for a resolution highlights an important issue: the balance between the need to combat terrorism effectively and the need for citizens' fundamental rights, the legal certainty of citizens. It is essential for the government to ensure that we have and maintain the right balance. We therefore support the intentions behind the motion for a resolution, which is basically about having a thorough look at whether the legal framework we have set for the Danish fight against terrorism ensures the right balance. However, the time is not ripe for such an evaluation, and that is why we cannot support the resolution. There is a serious terrorist threat against Denmark, and we have to deal with that. In this respect, it is crucial for me and the government right now that the authorities have the tools needed to prevent and combat terrorism. As you know, as a follow-up to the terrorist attacks in Paris and Copenhagen in early 2015, a major evaluation of the Danish terrorist preparedness was launched. Following this, a number of recommendations were made for new actions in this area, which were part of the agreement on the Police and Public Prosecutor's Economy 2016-2019. In addition, the government has put forward several legislative proposals aimed at strengthening the fight against terrorism. A single bill on participation in armed conflict abroad is still being discussed in the Things, the others have been adopted. When we know the impact of the new actions, the government will launch a review of the overall legal framework for the Danish terrorist effort, so that we ensure that we have also found the right balance in the helicopter perspective. So it is not necessarily that far between the proposers and the government in this matter. First of all, it is a question of timing. However, it is also crucial for the government that we maintain the focus right now on securing the Danish defence against the serious terrorist threat. We must only evaluate the framework for action when the many actions taken in recent years have had the opportunity to work. Otherwise, an evaluation would not really make sense. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527123058	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Hey, sorry to the Minister for Justice, very late came a request for a brief comment from Mrs Zenia Stampe. So, with the goodwill of the Minister of Justice, we also reach it, even if it was at the last minute. Here you go, Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527123112	Yeah, I'm sorry I was a little late. But thank you for the nice words and for sharing the intention. I believe the habit here in Parliament is not polemical, but curiously inquisitive and perhaps a tiny bit critical, because I do not quite understand the argument about timing. It is true that a majority in the Folketing has launched new initiatives, new legislation, but it is still a reality that we have old legislation, old moves back from the first terrorist package in 2003, the second terror package in 2006 and then subsequent enlargements, with which we have many experiences. If these measures have worked for 14 years now, at least for the first initiatives, then my question is: do we not have the basis for evaluating those measures, and will it really not be an appropriate time to do so now, before any further action is taken, because I also believe, unfortunately, that we are a situation in which we have not seen the last step in this area. That is why I also believe that if the argument that we have new measures, that new measures can be taken, is the argument that we will never evaluate the measures we have already taken and which, for the elders, have been working for 14 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527123235	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527123237	Should we not then actually start somewhere else and let me answer what time frame I see one can start such an evaluation within. I imagine it could be within 1 to 2 years, so that's not the whole world. And for me, I am absolutely sure that we will need such an evaluation, but I would like it in its entirety. And that's why this isn't one of those usual eviction manoeuvres, and in a minute or so. I agree with the need. But it just doesn't make sense that the authorities are implementing a whole lot of things right now as a result of the terrorist attack last February, plus what we have seen in Paris, and we must also carry out an evaluation of something old. In any case, that will happen. So we'd like to get it into a frame. That is the argument, and then you like it or not, but at least that is what lies in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527123332	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527123334	That is an answer I am very pleased about, because now our terrorist efforts are at least after 11 September 14 years of age, so if we have to wait a few years, I think I can live with it in a way, if I know that that happens. That is why I am very pleased that it has now been said in the Chamber and recorded. I cannot understand why we cannot evaluate the rules that came into force in 2003 and 2006, because we have no experience with them now. However, if, on the other hand, I can be expected to have an overall evaluation also with the new measures in a few years' time, I also think that I and my party will be happy, although we would like that to happen now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527123416	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527123419	My own party, even in opposition, has been fair, I think the term would be pushy, in terms of pushing for different things and matters in relation to the authorities. I therefore have to acknowledge one thing after becoming Minister of Justice, and that is that the Danish authorities in the field of terrorism are currently subject to huge demands and workloads and are in the process of a long and long series of implementations of various things. Take the Danish police, but also elsewhere. So we should not underestimate what such evaluations and such things also entail in such places. I think we need to breathe some air in relation to actually implementing Parliament's intentions. I cannot set the exact date, and there can also be extraordinary international things, etc., but with that reservation I can guarantee Mrs Zenia Stampe that this is my wish and my intention.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527123515	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527123518	Thank you, Minister. I'm really glad to hear that, too. I just think there are some problems with this. I have previously discussed these matters with the Minister in an open consultation that the previous committee on this matter was closed down. The minister says that you can only make an evaluation when you have things in their entirety. And that makes sense, it sounds very reasonable, the problem here is that what we are constantly talking about is that the balance between taking initiatives to combat terrorism and looking at legal certainty on the other hand is a balance that constantly moves us. If you had seen what action we have taken here 20 years ago, then I think you would think: we will never be able to do that. So that's the thing about when the whole thing is gonna be there, because things are gonna move all the time. I really think they are. Then I have a great deal of sympathy for the huge amount of work that I agree with the Minister, but again I think that the work will always be there. And it could be that we failed to take any initiatives if we had an explanation of what worked.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527123637	Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527123639	I think that if you went back 100 years, people would think that we were extremely soft in legal terms today, so that those timeframes you choose for when you can always take. I think there is a good and broad discussion about legal certainty in this Parliament forum, and perhaps that is what one forgets a little when we discuss these things. I think evaluations are important, but I also think that this vibrant forum, where each party has its contribution to this, is very, very important in the organisation of our work. I think that balance is responsible. What I can say is that there will be some sort of evaluation, at least as long as I have something to say within the time period I have outlined, and we will see what it will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527123727	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527123729	Well, I'm extremely glad the Minister's making that statement. The reason I'm about to go up and support this proposal anyway is that I believe that you can also learn from the past. We have just been involved in another vote which says that we need to examine the past, because we think we can learn more about that for the future. And that's the thing about us being under pressure. That is why in future we will also see more and more legislation in this area, and that is why I think it is important that we do not ignore what has happened, including in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527123807	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527123808	It is therefore a little like evaluating a reform before it has been implemented, and I do not think that much can be learned from that. I fully agree that we have come together for a very good agreement on a historical explanation of the things that have been going on around recent wars in relation to the activist foreign policy, but those wars are, if I may say so, started and ended, and therefore it makes sense. I think that just when the Danish authorities are creating the strongest terrorist response we have seen in recent times in Denmark, this is a strange time to carry out an evaluation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527123848	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527123849	Thank you to the Minister for the announcement that the Minister wants an evaluation before the Minister resigns. Well, maybe it's urgent then. But leave it alone. We'll see about that. Time will tell. I just want to ask what evaluation the Minister envisages. What kind of evaluation does he imagine? I fully understand that the Minister cannot go into detail about what it should include, etc., but what are we talking about? Are we talking about a working party in the Ministry of Justice or an independent investigation, or what are we talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527123925	Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527123927	I think the idea behind the committee set up by the previous government was excellent. I would also like to discuss the form with the Danish Parliament. Like I said to Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard, I do not always participate in the talk that the solution of the time is impartiality and once again impartiality. It can often be an advantage that it is authorities with knowledge of things that investigate them. When I was in opposition and a number of people wanted an independent investigation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I was fully satisfied with the way it was chosen to deal with it. But I am happy to discuss it with the parties of the Folketing when we get there. Summa summarum: I am in any case very concerned about legal certainty issues and how these matters are dealt with. That is why it will be a key element of the work to be carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124013	Then we thank the Minister for Justice and move on to the rapporteur's line. First, it's sir. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124025	On the part of the Social Democrats, we would like to recognise the desire of the Radicals to ensure legal certainty by finding the right balance between the fight against terrorism on the one hand and the legal certainty of the citizens on the other. We agree with the intention that the two important considerations must be weighed against each other in each legislative proposal. That is why it is also the view of the Social Democrats that in the specific legislative proposal, where there may be cause for concern about the balance between counter-terrorism and legal certainty, we must ensure that this is taken into account in the legislative work. We can do this through sunset clauses, revision provisions or through concrete evaluations of individual laws. Of course, we believe that this should be discussed in the relevant cases, and that is why it is our view that the balance between combating terrorism and legal certainty is best ensured by discussion in relation to the individual legislative proposals and their importance. We believe that this is a more effective method than setting up a Commission which can give general consideration to the state of affairs in this area. That is why the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124128	Then there is a brief comment on Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124132	Well, then we're in the funny situation, or I don't know if it's funny, unexpected or surprising that it sounds like the government might in fact be more accommodating to this proposal than the Socialists. However, I would like to ask the Social Democrats whether, in line with the government, despite what the rapporteur has just said from the floor of the Parliament, we will welcome an examination and evaluation of the legislation within the timeframe mentioned by the Minister of Justice, in other words within 1-2 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124207	Thank you. As I read the motion for a resolution, a Commission on Legal Rights must be set up, which will have to report back at the end of 2017, and that is what we say we cannot support. We are, of course, ready to look at whether you can do another kind of study within a different time frame.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124225	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124228	So maybe that's what I was hoping we could get a little closer. I am very pleased to be able to leave here today and say that the Minister for Justice has actually declared himself in favour of having such an investigation carried out. Whether it should be an independent inquiry or a working group, we must then discuss • and it might be very nice to be able to say that it could probably also be well supported by the Socialists. I know you're gonna have to go back and talk to your group. That is why I would just like to get a little closer with regard to the Socialists' thoughts on the Minister for Justice's proposal, namely that a study should be carried out within the next few years. I would also like to hear some reflections on what kind of study the Socialists would then seem to be the best.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124314	One does not have much time to prepare for a position on such a type of study when one comes to right after the Minister. However, I would like to say that we must, of course, be able to discuss it and carry out a study within the framework that is in place and, of course, this is a very central consideration in relation to the situation we have been in both since then. 11 September, but also since the terrorist attacks that have been in Denmark. So we'll have to look at that when it comes. However, the motion for a resolution before us does not seem to us to be able to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124341	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124345	I hope, of course, that the Socialists will end up doing their job so that they can at least support such an independent investigation within a time frame of 1-2 years. I know that the last committee was set up in the previous period of government. Isn't that right, or am I the one who remembers wrong? And it is not to lure the rapporteur on ice. However, the terror committee which was set up and which our current Minister of Justice shut down, I believe, was set up during the previous period of government, in other words by a government governed by social democracy. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124422	Actually, I'm not aware of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124429	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124429-2	That's quite fair. I think it was, but it's possible I'm wrong. But it was certainly shut down by the Minister for Justice, and it was a terrorist committee which had to examine the legislation to date. That is also what I asked the Minister for Justice, i.e. that I thought it was wrong to shut it down, because I think we can learn from what we have already done. I would actually just like to call on the Socialist rapporteur to go back to his hinterland and hopefully come back and say that the rapporteur is in favour of setting up such an independent commission or launching another form of evaluation. I think that would be a good thing, and I would like to make a comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124504	I have no comment other than the fact that we have taken note of this request, and I think it is a relevant discussion. But there is a proposal here, and that is what we are discussing today, and there is our position that we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124516	We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124527	With the resolution, the Radical Left wants to establish a Commission on Legal Rights to try to strike a balance between citizens' legal certainty on the one hand and the fight against terrorism on the other. There have been rapid developments in this area over the past decade, probably since 2001. In the Danish People's Party, we have supported all the measures that have been taken to combat terrorism, to make the Danes safer, to make our institutions more secure, we stand by that. This is a development that has only gone one way. I can also reject, on behalf of the party, the motion for a resolution tabled here today. We in the Danish People's Party will not support this. It is our very clear impression that the debate that must be in relation to the fight against terrorism, on the one hand, and legal certainty, on the other, is an ongoing debate that we need to take in the Assembly. Nor should I conceal the fact that our position is that we believe that it is easy to go further than we do today in terms of protecting against terrorism. It has also been one of the reasons why we have been unhappy that the government has chosen to push all the work that has been done in session logging until after the summer holidays, because we really have a desire to make the Danes safe and make it difficult for the terrorists. That is also why we are not going to support the proposal in this instance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124700	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124702	Political reporting is quite fair. I am just wondering whether the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party could not imagine that somewhere there was a point where it was said: here the security we get extra will go beyond legal certainty, so we will not be involved in that. So, is there theoretically some point, or is it always in the relationship between the two elements, legal certainty and security, security that wins, regardless of what that means for legal certainty?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124735	It is certainly my very clear impression that in the current situation, where the threat to Denmark is incredibly high, we need to do everything we possibly can to increase our security and security. If, at some point, there is such a point, then we must take it, but I do not think a Commission can uncover that. What is the relationship here is: do we think we are wiser to set up a commission? I don't think so. I believe that what makes us wiser to find our own borders is to take the ongoing debate in the Parliamentary Assembly, to let every proposal for the fight against terrorism go through the Chamber and to take the debate that needs to be held here, rather than becoming an expert power to define the limits. I think politicians should.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124814	Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124816	What you could do, if you took it together, was like focusing on the dilemmas that exist, and thus not just starting from hand to mouth. Because if the starting point is not some fundamental considerations, I do not understand at all that the Danish People's Party does not go much further in the safety track. Well, there are many things, really many things you could do that would increase security. One could, for example: start by canceling all football matches, just like one thing. That would dramatically increase security, but I do not suppose the Danish People's Party will. So I guess there's a limit somewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124858	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124859	Yes, but as far as the limitations are concerned, I think we are best placed to take the discussions from the real world instead of setting up some pickle jar to come up with an attitude after a few years. I think sir... Søren Søndergaard and other good members of this house can help define the limits. We do not need experts for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124918	We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527124927	I do not want to make a long speech, but I just want to say that we are happy to help evaluate the efforts that have been made, but that we do not think that the right tool is to set up a commission. Commissions are also, in my personal opinion and with my legal background, not always a suitable tool. Well, take the Farum Commission: 10 years, and I don't remember how many volumes. I do not know how many people have read it, hardly anyone other than those who have written it. It is not a suitable tool, nor is it a suitable tool in this matter. But that is not to say that we do not want to evaluate. We'd like to, but now is not the time. The timing is bad. We want to evaluate, but we do not want to set up a commission. To come, sir. Søren Søndergaard's question in advance, I can say that the Left naturally believes that legal certainty should not be sacrificed in favour of security. Absolute security would require us to live in a Stasi society, a police state, and the Left has absolutely no desire for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527125033	It wasn't sir. Søren Søndergaard, who asked for a brief comment. It was Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527125040	I could not put two questions to the Minister, but then I can use the minister's handyman on the platform and ask a little about the form of such an evaluation, because it will of course interest us. Now the Minister said that he thought it was an excellent and sensible construction that we had found, but on the other hand he also opened up an official group instead. We have seen this before, and we are quite critical of this because we did not believe that the evaluation carried out by the previous government, the Fogh government, was impartial, but was precisely such an internal working group. I would just like to hear some reflections from the rapporteur of the Left on the form of such evaluation work and on the advantages and disadvantages of an independent Commission and an official working group, as we have seen before.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527125128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527125129	Let's talk about it. We have an open mind and a closed wallet.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527125137	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527125138	A closed wallet I don't know how much it costs. We'll have to look into that. Then I would actually like to take this opportunity to ask something else when I have the opportunity, for something that the committee of terror set up by the previous government, the SR government, should look at, was whether the rules on surveillance and interception meant that too many citizens were bugged or monitored without justification. And these are old rules we're talking about now. These aren't the new rules. These are rules that have worked for about 10 years now. I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left whether this is an area of interest to him and his party and whether one has the impression that it is an opportunity that is being used a little too much, and whether there is any reason to look at it in this way, as was the intention of the old committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527125229	"Ham" and "she" are direct speeches, which are not permitted in the Assembly Hall. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527125233	No, he and she are 3rd person. I think so, but there is no discussion with the President, of course not. It's never gonna happen again. But I can discuss it with Mrs. Zenia Stampe. This is an area that interests the Left in general and me in particular very much. You don't have to read a lot of science fiction novels to know where we're going if we don't have this attention to legal certainty. Unfortunately, we see that democratically elected governments too have gone too far, for example in the United States, with methods of torture, imprisonment without judgment, etc. One can go too far, certainly, in the effort to create security in a society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527125328	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527125340	Thank you. This discussion is not really new. I had the luck, or whatever to call it, to sit in the Folketing around 11 September 2001, also in the years before and in the years after. And what was a little interesting there was, of course, that in the years up to 11 September 2001 a large number of proposals were presented, which were usually shot down, for increased monitoring and so on. And then, when what happened on 11 September, the then Social Democratic radical government managed in no time, because it was overthrown in the November elections, to make a very comprehensive bill on monitoring, which was then brought forward in the Folketing. We who sat in the Folketing at the time said: should we not like to try to look at it a little more thoroughly, for example. make some clauses that it should be evaluated after a certain period of time and we were almost portrayed as terrorist allies or traitors. It was not good tone, because now there was a specific case, and now it just had to go through, and it was extremely important. Since then, we have seen that a number of the things that were adopted were actually problematic and perhaps had benefited from having been through more thorough consideration or perhaps had benefited from having a sunset clause so that they had been evaluated after a few years. So what says that we should be careful just to adopt legislation when there is a current situation and then not really make any evaluation of it, is certainly a very good starting point, also because we know that there is that balance between security and legal certainty. And it is clear that even if we discuss it, it will never prevent the need for a specific discussion and development in relation to what is happening, but we can well imagine tools which may not provide total security, but at least complete clarification. In other words, the implanting of a chip into people who are in contact with a satellite, so that you can always determine, with one metre of precision and with a second of accuracy, where people have been at a certain time, well, that can at least ensure 99.999 percent clarification of all crimes. Whether it prevents the crimes is another matter, but it will ensure that they are solved. So the short of the long is: No one really wants that, so that balance is important. As Mrs Zenia Stampe may know, the Enhedslisten has presented the proposal in connection with the Finance Act several times. Unfortunately, this was rejected by the former SR government, but we think it is a good proposal and then we can also have the fundamental discussion, not because it replaces the concrete discussion when something happens in society that we have to react to, but because it makes us try to take it in a slightly more fundamental framework and not just from hand to mouth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527125654	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527125706	The vile double terrorist attack at Krudtønden and at the synagogue in Krystalgade in February last year showed with all possible bloody clarity that extremism lives in today's Denmark, that terrorist attacks are not only taking place in remote regions, but that the threat to Danish citizens is also real. This requires political answers, and it requires us to continue to do what we can to provide security and security in a reasonable manner. The Liberal Alliance has presented an anti-extremism initiative which, in a wide range of areas, proposes ways of minimising the risk of terrorism and radicalisation. We specifically proposed that there should be an expansion of the police and PET response and surveillance efforts, an increase in IT and analysis capacity, an expansion of the bodyguard force, a strengthening of the preparedness for action in a terrorist incident, an expansion of the PET operation force and a strengthening of national day-to-day preparedness under the National Police Office. We also proposed that, in order to counter the threat posed by extremist environments and hard-boiled gangs, we carry out targeted, but also much more intensive, monitoring than that which exists today, and also, in view of the indefensible fact that police officers are put in the front line with equipment that is inadequate or that they are not confident that we jointly prioritise the purchase of the necessary equipment and ensure that the police have the necessary training hours. It acts among other things. the fact that there must always be safety vests that fit and that the shooting training must be updated. Having said that, it is important to stress that our entire programme is imbued with the fact that monitoring, capacity building and judicial political austerity must never go further than that ordinary citizens can be allowed to be at peace for state interference and control. That is why we insist on maintaining the general legal guarantees which must and must be provided in a modern democracy, for example, that judicial orders must be obtained prior to supervision and that citizens have a wide range of freedoms which must be respected. It can be said that we want effective counter-terrorism on the basis of the rule of law. In this light, the proposal we are now considering is both sensible and relevant. A Commission on Legal Rights, which examines whether the Danish terrorist effort has found the right balance between protection and legal certainty and which can make recommendations to different decision-makers, could make a significant contribution to tackling a really difficult challenge. The Liberal Alliance therefore intends to vote in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527125953	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527130036	Excuse me, Chairman. I am very sorry, but I was detained by the Minister of Justice, and you have to have time for that. We are here today to consider the proposal made by the Radical Left to set up a Commission on Legal Rights. And there should be no doubt that the alternative has supported that proposal. We have this because we think it is really, really important to focus on the fact that freedoms and independent courts and free political debate should not be subject to counter-terrorism and how far we are going in that direction. We are of the opinion that in some areas we have gone too far in this direction, because we think that some steps have been taken which we have a position if not necessarily will have the great effect. That is why we have been interested in the previous independent committee of inquiry, which had to evaluate and see whether the previous terrorist legislation had gone too far, or whether it was the right one, or whether we should look at other measures. I think it is very positive that the Minister for Justice has stated that he would like to look at an evaluation within a time frame of 1-2 years, and we would very much like to continue working on that. I think it is important for the alternative in this respect to say that, as the position we have at present at least, it is an impartial study that is being carried out, not necessarily a commission, but that it is impartial people we put to look at it. But that's what we'll have to take when the time comes. So I am actually a little curious about how we are going to proceed with this motion for a resolution, and I hope that the Radical Left has a final comment on how the Radical Left perceives the commitments that have been made up here from the platform; so I look forward to that, of course. On the whole, however, we have positive support for the resolution but, on the other hand, it seems important now to get a working relationship with the Ministry of Justice on how we can ensure that we have an independent evaluation within 1-2 years of the current special legislation that has been launched. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527130319	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527130329	Freedom is the best gold, and we heard the Justice Minister repeat it. And it is hailed both to the right and to the left, and in particular the liberal Denmark has previously been firmly on the agenda of freedom. That is why it is particularly noteworthy that it is precisely under a liberal government that one anti-freedom proposal after another is launched under slogans of security. We are at a timid time when disproportional interventions often directly affect citizens' freedoms. However, fear must never serve as an excuse for compromising on the very rights we are trying to protect. On several occasions, in particular with reference to the fight against terrorism or crime, freedom has been restricted in the adoption of new legislation. For the past 15 years in Danish politics there has been an exemplified legal policy by among others. violations of freedom of expression in the Tibet case, increase in the number of administrative detentions, and the new Public Act restricting public insight into the actions of the authorities and politicians. SF has launched a number of proposals to ensure the Danes' right to freedom of expression and assembly based on the principle: Strong freedoms are the prerequisites for a healthy democracy. This concerns, among other things: to restore the tightening of the police code by the so-called law package in order to limit the number of administrative detentions, to provide clear guidelines on when to intervene in the freedom of assembly, to ensure better protection for public employees whistleblowers and to set up a freedom of expression commission, following the Norwegian model, which can offer an indication of how we can strengthen freedom of expression. For freedom of expression is under pressure, and we need the brave people who disregard their own interests in order to contribute important knowledge to the general public • whistleblowers who reveal surveillance, war crimes as well as cheating and deception. That is why we need to create the framework for public employees to be able to provide information that is relevant to the public. Freedom of assembly is also under pressure. We saw this not least during the Chinese state visit in 2012. Here the police went after detention, detention and cutting off protesting activists from showing their sympathy for Tibet's struggle for independence. It is SF's clear view that the police committed violations of the constitutional right to demonstrate. Administrative detention has also been a major interference with personal freedom, and in particular with the adoption of the loot package, a significant number of these have been added. It shows a recent inventory. The increase is marked and is significantly higher than under COP15 in 2009. It's a slippery slope of rank. Monitoring of the citizens of both the physical world and the Internet has increased dramatically. Administrative detention has been extended and thousands of people have been detained for no reason. Demonstrators have been denied their constitutional right to demonstrate, and whistleblowers risk everything without the protection of the community. The legal certainty of the citizens is astounded by the very same state and us in here who should guarantee it, and in a number of areas a majority of the Folketing refuses to correct the mistakes that have been made. The government, which calls itself liberal, is everything else, and I wish you would listen a little more to Carl Nielsen in the government offices at Slotsholmen. All this to say that the SF supports the Radicals' proposal for a Commission on Legal Rights. There is no reason both to set up a Commission on Freedom of expression and a Commission on Legal Rights. If there were a majority in favour of linking the two, I would also be happy, but there is no doubt that in trying to ensure security and protection for the citizens of this country, we have gone far too far in a number of areas over the last 15 years. And at least we need to evaluate what we have done and what the consequences have been. Before you are given straws, I would like to say that there is not a single party or a single member of the Folketing who does not want to protect citizens against attacks, terrorism, etc., but it must always be in a balance. And I heard the rapporteur of the Left say quite wisely that it may well be that one can guarantee the citizens one hundred percent security in one country, but then one has got something else that is much worse; then one has got a country in which none of us wants to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527130808	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we go to the author of the motion, Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527130825	How long do I have? Ten minutes, yeah. I would like to start by thanking you for the debate in the Chamber, which I think has been very positive, and I am particularly positive about the reports we have received from the Minister for Justice, who is reporting positively on the legal consequences of Danish terrorism legislation. I'm very happy with that announcement. We have, of course, tabled this proposal in the wake of the fact that, unfortunately, the government set up the committee we had set up ourselves when we were in government, with exactly this. It had to look both at the effectiveness of the terrorist effort, i.e. whether it was good enough, but also at the legal consequences and weigh the two against each other. The current government chose to close this committee on the grounds that the reality had overtaken the committee because new measures and new legislation had been adopted and implemented, and therefore the timing was wrong. That is also the argument we have heard here today, and I was actually rather concerned about that, and that is also why I am more positive now. However, I would like to say why I am a little concerned about that argument, because if the argument is that legislation should not be changed for a period of time, so to speak, before it can be evaluated, then I am afraid that it will never be possible to evaluate this area, at least not as long as the reality is. After all, we can all hope that there will be no new terrorist attack tomorrow or in a week or in a month or in a year's time, but unfortunately there is something that would suggest that this is not the case. That is why this is probably an area in which we want to see new legislation on an ongoing basis, and if new legislation always becomes an argument for slowing down an evaluation or slowing down an investigation into legal certainty, then we are a place where we will never be able to evaluate legal certainty in relation to these measures. I think I subscribe to the opposite logic, namely that the more new legislation and the more intrusive legislation we adopt in this area, the more necessary it is to evaluate it and, above all, to evaluate the legal consequences of that legislation. That is why I was quite concerned when we started the negotiations on this proposal because I thought it was an argument that we would never be able to evaluate the effort. However, as I hear from the Minister for Justice, he has a genuine, genuine desire to evaluate the efforts, not least from a legal perspective. I am very pleased about that. I also hear the Minister say that this is not something he can promise, because things can happen in the world and that worries me a tiny bit, but I believe that the intention is real. Unfortunately, I do believe that there is probably a greater likelihood of something happening in the world, but we can hope that nothing so revolutionary in the world will happen that the government comes to terms with other ideas. I would probably think that, even if something quite serious happened in the world and perhaps even more serious happened in the world than what we have seen, and if we were to have even more tightening and tightening in the area of terrorism, then there was even better reason to have an assessment of the legal consequences. So I'm optimistic and believe that's something we can keep the government up on. I am really glad that this is the intention with which the Minister of Justice has taken the floor. I would say quite specifically to the further work that I will try to see if there is a possibility of producing a report, because I think that with the remarks made by the Minister, we may be able to reach agreement in the Committee on Legal Affairs on a report, and I would like to make this a very high priority, because the broader the basis on which we can work, the better. So I'm gonna try to work for that. I can also be honest in saying that, as the alternative has been said, we prefer an independent investigation. We have seen an internal working group working on the area before, and we were not entirely satisfied with that evaluation. We think there's a point in getting someone to look at it from the outside. Then I also need to recognise the work that many other parties have done for this. After all, the Enhedslisten, the SF and the Alternative have made various proposals, tabled consultation questions, etc. on the subject of the Liberal Alliance, I apologize if I did not mention them. So I have no need to take credit for this. I really believe that this is a collective effort which we have all contributed to along the way, and I am pleased that the Left is also reporting positively today. I also hope that we can get the Socialists to join us. After all, it was an SR government that set up the old terror committee, which among other things. I have to look at the legal consequences, so I really have a little difficulty imagining that the Socialists are going to oppose it, but now we have sent the Socialist rapporteur home with homework, so he is sorry, I do not know if it can be said in his hinterland whether there will be support for such an initiative. I hope so very much. With those words, I would just like to thank you for a really constructive debate. I hope that there will be a basis for producing a report which brings together what seems to be widely endorsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527131348	There is one brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527131350	Thank you to the rapporteur. I fully agree with the rapporteur's comments, and I am also very pleased with the Minister's statement. The only question I just have is whether Mrs Zenia Stampe has any attitude or reflection on whether it should be an impartial investigation or an official inquiry. At the time, it was an SR government that had set up that committee, it was certainly an independent committee. Are there any reflections on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160527131420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527131422	Yes, I think I actually said it, but I would like to repeat it, because I think that is an important point, namely that we prefer an independent study very much in a form such as that which we had set up in connection with the previous government. But we would also like to go into the work with an open mind, because in the end we must also create a majority. So we are also seeking compromise when it comes to listening to what may be arguments for one thing or another. It is clearly our preference that it should be an independent committee, but I do not think we should leave it at this moment either. Now we're gonna try to figure out how far the government is willing to go in this area. That is why I choose to be optimistic and open but not hide what my preference is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527131508	There is no need for a final question, so we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160527131536	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 31 May 2016, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I shall refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
