ParlaMint-DK_20160414100012	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Eva Flyvholm (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B187 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the presentation of the financing of new fighter aircraft before type-elections). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20160414100045	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414100108	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of voting 112 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), 0 abstentions 0]. The bill has been adopted unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414100142	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414100210	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. For voting 111 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), 0 abstentions 0]. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414100244	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414100303	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then we move on to the next point, which is a first reading, where we would all appreciate it if you could hear what is going on, so please remain calm as you leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414100338	The debate is open, and it is first Mrs Mette Reissmann as the Social Democrat rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414100352	For the Socialists, irresponsible indebtedness is a problem that must be taken very seriously. When you are in debt without having considered the subsequent financial consequences, you find yourself in a very difficult economic situation which can quickly have incalculable prospects. Young people in particular tend to debt in a way that bites them back many years later. It is no longer than November that it came to light that one in seven young people has debt problems. It is a very high figure and it shows that the problem is not limited by merely having a theoretical discussion. That degree has its roots in the real world, unfortunately. In this context, we can see that the so-called quick loans are becoming more and more widespread and, as described in the draft law's comments, the number of quick loans raised from 2010 to 2013 has increased by 4%. a year. This is extremely remarkable. And when the Competition and Consumer Authority estimates that 30%. At the same time, the revenue generated by the quick loaner comes from loans used to pay off debts, and at the same time it shows that it is a system that can quickly develop into a vicious spiral, since the debtors are lying and simply gearing their debts. The Socialists believe that it is essential that we address the problems of irresponsible indebtedness. It is equally important that we tackle where it makes sense, and it would be wrong, for example, to ban consumer loans, such as quick loans, completely. The majority who can manage a consumer loan should not be affected by the fact that some people cannot. That is why it is also gratifying that we are today discussing a good bill from the government which addresses the problem in a very good way. The draft law proposes the introduction of a 48-hour mandatory reporting period when a short-term consumer loan is drawn up. This is a very wise move in terms of getting rid of irresponsible debt. The draft law simply means that you are allowed to sleep on your decision to borrow money. And the impulse that makes you take a quick loan by texting one day may the next day have turned into regret over your decision. With L 156, we are offering a mandatory option of withdrawal, thereby giving consumers an opportunity to think twice before taking up a loan that may seem tempting in the present, but on the long run can be an expensive pleasure with great consequences. A lot can happen in 48 hours. The draft law does not mention any new credit rating that will take place in connection with the conclusion of the agreement itself after the end of the report period. The introduction of legislation should be considered. My experience of irresponsible indebtedness is that it is the amount of loans allocated to various creditors that brings the consumer to his knees in economic terms. That is why the Socialists will call on the government to consider several similar initiatives in the overall loan market that ensure responsible lending so that insurmountable indebtedness does not take place. We are happy to take part in this work. The draft law puts the consumer at the centre, we appreciate that, and that is why the Socialists support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414100700	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has any comments on that. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414100719	Thank you. The main aim of the proposal is to introduce a mandatory 48-hour period of reflection in which people wishing to borrow a so-called quick loan are prevented from confirming the agreement for the first 48 hours. If the proposal is implemented, it will take two days, from the application for the agreement on a loan, for the agreement to be finally approved by the consumer and the money to be paid out afterwards. Quick loans are defined as consumer loans without collateral and without condition of purchase of goods and services and with a maximum maturity of 3 months. The proposal follows on from the fact that the Danish Competition and Consumer Authority published a report back in 2015 which, on the basis of market analyses, recommends the introduction of a cooling period during which the person wishing to borrow may have the opportunity either to change his mind or to consider other loan offers that may be cheaper for the borrower. The reason for this is that in recent years there has been a large increase in the number of these loan contracts and an increase in the number of people setting up the loans. According to the Competition and Consumer Authority, the number of borrowers has increased sevenfold and the number of loans has increased five to sixfold, and this in very few years. In 2014, the total value of these loans reached almost 0,5 billion. kr. The report also tells the interesting thing that about 40 per cent. of the consumers who set up the loans have seen that the costs were higher than expected, that the same share regretted the loan and that even more had not considered alternative types of loans. The Authority's market investigation also showed that many consumers were not in a position to repay the loan in good time. The figures say that almost every five loans created ended in debt collection and, in this light, the report period is proposed. The proposal provides for derogations for types of loans which are immediately similar to quick loans. These are overdrafts and overdrafts, which are distinguished by the fact that banks are likely to have a more thorough knowledge of their customers' finances and credit ratings. I freely admit that there may well be some who can benefit from borrowing a quick loan now and here and who, by their very nature, are able to pay back in time. However, as legislators, we also have an obligation to create a framework for all consumers, including those who may find it difficult to deal with these offers, and those who may be tempted at a moment of weakness and who may, during a period of reflection, be able to take a different decision or simply maintain the solution that they have already applied for. If you go through the hearings, you will also get a somewhat mixed impression of what kind of proposal we are dealing with. Nevertheless, we in the Danish People's Party commend this proposal and recognise the challenges of these special quick loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414101009	Thank you to the rapporteur, and there are no brief comments here either. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414101026	Thank you. I agree with what the rapporteurs of both the Socialists and the Danish People's Party have said, both of which have given a very good account of the reasons why this draft law has been put forward, namely that there are quite a lot of people who are facing insurmountable debt problems, among other things. as a result of quick loans. After all, it is a market which is probably primarily aimed at consumers who find it difficult to obtain loans from banks and elsewhere, and there is usually a reason for this, namely that the credit rating of those concerned is not very high. What the government has come up with is a response to the challenge, which is balanced at the same time, so that we still maintain that we have freedom of agreement in Denmark. We are not going in and banning quick loans, we are not going in and setting a narrow framework for what to offer interest rates etc., but we are going in and making a period of reflection. Once you have slept twice, you can decide whether you still think you need this money, and that is, we believe, a very balanced arrangement we have found that will hopefully be able to solve the problem, while at the same time the many who can manage a quick loan are not prevented from taking up such a one. Why couldn't a withdrawal option be made instead? Yes, the problem is that there is no direct link between the money you borrow and the product or service you spend the money on. Therefore, the money will most often be spent before you can regret it, and therefore the withdrawal option does not really make sense when we talk about quick loans. So the Left and the Government have put forward this bill, and I am glad that there are already two parties to support it, and I have the expectation that more will do so, and then we hope that this, together with information for young people, can draw their attention to the fact that debt is therefore something to be cautious about. Debt has the unpleasant function that it is something that has to be paid back with interest and interest rates and charges, and what do I know, so many times it is probably more sensible to see if you could not save the money rather than borrow it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414101243	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sarah Glerup, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414101320	In the last few years, the number of quick loans has increased dramatically. In just 3 years, from 2010 to 2013, the number of borrowers was more than sevenfold. Nearly one out of every five of the quick loans set up that year went to debt collection. The numbers speak their clear language. We are faced with a problem which every year throws thousands of people into debt problems, which could perhaps have been avoided if people had thought a little better about. Therefore, it is a very good idea when this bill will introduce 48 hours of mandatory reflection before you can take a quick loan. This allows the borrower time to reconsider whether there is really a need and eventually afford the charter holiday, flat screen or smartphone that is currently so tempting. The proposal is a step in the right direction and therefore the Enhedslisten supports it. But the proposal in no way solves all the problems of debt spirals that many Danes end up in every year and find it difficult to get out of. Firstly, reflection time is not necessarily enough to get people to make the best decision. Thousands of people will not be able to see through and understand the consequences of taking a quick loan after two days. Secondly, people do not just take irresponsible loans because they are tempted by smartphones and do not think. People also take irresponsible loans because they're desperate. If you live with a very small income, for example. because you are ill and stranded on cash benefits, unexpected extra costs if the refrigerator sets out or you break a tooth, for social events, social disasters. It's not just $1,500. to a pair of new shoes that I've heard some say in here. That's 1,500 kroner missing and indispensable. Those things also help to force people into quick solutions such as quick loans and, finally, debt spirals, out of which it is really hard to get out. So it is not just about being bad at budgeting and thinking about; it is also about the safety net that we offer to people affected by unemployment or disease is not always good enough. But this bill is a step in the right direction. We would like to see further progress being made, for example. forbade certain types of loans with particularly high interest rates and costs. This is what the Consumer Council suggests: that you can set such a ceiling on the annual borrowing costs as a percentage. We would also like to see the possibility of debt relief reviewed, and we would like Denmark to introduce free public debt advice, as has been done in, for example, the case of debt relief. Sweden. However, as I said, this bill is clearly a step in the right direction and we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414101605	Thank you to Mrs Sarah Glerup. Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414101617	In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that citizens should have the freedom to conclude the agreements they want to conclude, with other citizens or with companies. That is why we cannot support the draft law put forward by the Minister of Justice here. We think that the whole argument for the bill is based on the fact that adult people who are citizens of this country are unwilling and unable to make their own decisions for their own lives and that it is believed that the Folketing is better at managing their lives than they are. We have what I am tempted to say humanistically that we believe in man, we believe in the individual human being and the individual human being's ability to make their own free choices. Sometimes it is the case that the choices you make also have some boring consequences, but we actually believe that over a life cycle you can gain something from learning what the consequences are of making wrong choices. Because when you are a free person in a free country, it is not the case that you always make the right choices. It's not like you always do the right thing. Of course, you will occasionally hit some edges that you will encounter on the body and on the life of the experiences you get. But it will also provide some experience that will enable you to take more responsibility forward. I think it is worrying that not only is there as broad a majority as it seems, for this proposal, but that there is also a desire to continue with regard to what limits can be placed on people's ability to borrow. And then it's a little funny, you might say, that there is probably such a class distinction in this, that there are all the better-off members of parliament thinking that those people who have a little poor economy and who would like to have the opportunity to borrow some money should have a longer period of reflection before they have the opportunity to get the loan that they want. I would also like to point out to the Minister for Justice that I think that the commentary on the consultation that has been sent out may not really provide so much response to the objections that have come from parts of the business community. In any case, I would like the Minister of Justice to address in his oral reply and if that is not possible, then in a written reply later on the objections made by the Danish Occupation, Finans and Leasing and the Danish Credit Council on the enforcement of existing rules. I don't really think you get into it. You just say that you want something else, and that is quite fine, but they probably knew that in advance, since they commented on a proposal. So it would be nice to find out what is actually the comment on the remarks that there are already some options with the existing rules on regret. All in all, of course, we can see that this is done with the very best intentions in the world. You do it because you want to do something good, but we just don't think it's Parliament's job to manage other people's lives. On the contrary, the Folketing might have to speed up some reorganisations which dealt with fewer restrictions and fewer laws and fewer rules, rather than narrowing the limits of people's opportunities. We say no, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414101945	This led to a few comments, first from Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414101953	Thank you to the rapporteur for his very clear speech. Does the rapporteur not think that we in the Folketing should take this into account if there are companies and others who are clearly trying to make it difficult for people who do not have the opportunity to go to the banks and borrow money, because it is typically the people who use quick loans? Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll not at all that we should take account of that population?
ParlaMint-DK_20160414102028	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414102029	I certainly think that we should take that population into account. This is, as Mrs Josephine Fock rightly says, a group of people who do not have access to the same opportunities as many others. Therefore, it is necessary that those people may also be able to borrow some money where necessary. Therefore, there are some companies which ensure that the service is provided in such a way that the needs of the citizens are matched by a service provided by companies. Fortunately, this is the way a market economy works, which is why market economies throughout the world have gone their way in relation to other forms of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414102112	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414102116	In view of the fact that these people do not have the opportunity to go to the banks and borrow money, it could not be the way to go instead of debting these people, so that they have a pretty high probability, at least a large part of the group that is borrowing quick loans.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414102138	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414102142	In other words, it is a little difficult to go the way that Mrs Josephine Fock is talking about, because we cannot impose on banks or others to give loans to people from whom they do not believe they can get the money back. It is clear that if it is the case that as a customer you represent a greater risk to the company which is going to lend the money, then the company will probably also have to set stricter conditions for lending the money, and this is not a ban on the loans in question, as far as I understand the proposal, but just about this time of reflection. So I guess it's the one that's the main thing in the legislative proposal, but it's true that if the alternative wants to move forward, we don't support it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414102227	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414102231	I would like to ask the rapporteur what he said, namely that there was class difference and class politics here. Yeah, and then I woke up. The rapporteur says that it is in fact helping those who are most disadvantaged that those who have the very least can now achieve their dreams with these quick loans, because there are not the same requirements as for example. a bank loan. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur believes that these people, who are less well-off or do not have the money and funds to do this, will have a better economy from these quick loans. Will they be better off financially from the opportunities for these loans?
ParlaMint-DK_20160414102320	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414102321	They will be better off if their refrigerator goes down and if they want to buy a new one and have no money for it, as instead they have to wait 48 hours before they can cool their goods again. It really doesn't have to be that dreamy. It may be so specific to the people concerned that these are basic necessities which they cannot buy and which they must now wait 48 hours to obtain because of the policy supported by the Socialist People's Party. And I think it's antisocial that you choose to say that just because you're in a bad financial position, you might have to live for two days without a refrigerator. That's a strange approach to things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414102359	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414102401	It may well be that that period did not take a text message loan, but took another loan, such as these suppliers of consumer goods as refrigerators and so on. of course also often issues and still takes off high interest rates, but not direct usury interest rates. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur believes, from the point of view of principle, that there should be one hundred per cent freedom of agreement, regardless of what the interest rate and conditions are in an agreement between a loan provider and someone who would like to borrow money. I mean, should there be zero restrictions?
ParlaMint-DK_20160414102445	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414102446	Two things: the first is that it is a rather schizophrenic argument on the part of the supporters, for this proposal. On the one hand, it is believed that these people do not have the opportunities. That is what Mrs Josephine Fock said and, on the other hand, what Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen says is that they just have other options. You have to choose an argument, I think. Secondly, I would just like to say that it is not us who are proposing to change the law. We are on the basis of the present law. That's what I'm defending. It is the majority that will change the law, and that is the change we do not understand, because we simply do not understand why it is that even people with relatively small incomes do not have the right to buy themselves a refrigerator or a stove or other things that are necessary to have, because we are now imposing on the very weakest in society that they have to wait two days to get some things that are important to them. I think it's antisocial. I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414102535	Then it is Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414102538	Thank you. I'd like to hear Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll on the legislative proposal itself, because I am clearly convinced that freedom for the individual is very important on the part of the rapporteur. But where is it that Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll actually sees in the bill that the freedom of agreement for the individual consumer is being kidnapped? You gotta do it, like Mr. Simpson. Jan E. Jørgensen said, only sleep twice before you can actually make a deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414102608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414102610	First of all, I was quite nervous when I saw that Mrs Mette Reissmann was also going to ask questions, because there we have really got into human hands on this subject by one of the country's most important experts on precisely these things. I would like to say, however, that I almost think the answer was in the question because Mrs Mette Reissmann asks: is this the 48-hour question? The answer is yes, it is with the 48 hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414102634	Mrs. Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414102637	I'm not finished yet, so human hands can sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll safely come in. Now that we are looking at debt-riddenness, it is not just a loss of quality of life for a great many people. Unfortunately, we also see that the majority of consumers who have drawn up a quick loan are young people, and that means that they do not even get started with their adult lives in a healthy and sustainable way, economically speaking, before the mill wheel around their necks has forced them to their knees financially. It is also a socio-economic loss. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll doesn't care about it in the sacred name of freedom of agreement. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll: Is it not the case that the rapporteur is in favour of a preventive approach to remedying something that may first come with life experience rather than just letting it all go down in flames?
ParlaMint-DK_20160414102731	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414102732	I am incredibly concerned that these people will have an opportunity to repay their debts if they have received it. That's one of them. Therefore, that we think it is important that people with small incomes also receive a tax relief so that they have more money in their hands, then they also have the opportunity to have more choices and free choices in their lives. It's kind of for people's sake that we want to do it, it's not for our own. I just think that what is being overlooked in this discussion is concrete. In other words, if you really lack the refrigerator that we have been discussing for the last 10 minutes, it is annoying to have to wait 48 hours because Mrs Mette Reissmann and others think we should think about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414102815	Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stamp, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414102819	It was perhaps precisely in that case, it was very good to sit at home and think about what is most important: that you should not throw out 3 litres of light milk, or that you take out a loan which you actually find difficult to repay and which brings you into major problems in the long term? So it was perhaps a good thing, in fact, to have some reflection time in the situation now that the rapporteur mentioned it with the refrigerator. That was a very ideological speech. And I also understand that the message was a bit paternal, namely that you have to take responsibility for your actions. If that is the rapporteur's position, I would just like to hear what you really think about the right of withdrawal that exists in connection with online purchases. Is it also some sort of over-protection for consumers who cannot figure out how to take responsibility for their actions? Once they have clicked on the buy and added it to the shopping cart, they have just to stand by the purchase instead of having the right to return it after 14 days.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414102910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414102911	First of all, I do not fully understand the rapporteur's remark that it is paternal to take responsibility for one's own actions. Perhaps that explains the movement that the Radical Left has had over the past decade. But I simply do not understand the sentence. I assume that will be clarified if the rapporteur takes the next brief comment, because I think that is actually a rather interesting discussion. I would just like to say, in relation to regret, that, in my question to the Minister for Justice, I specifically mentioned that I would like to see it clarified on the existing possibilities for regret in relation to paragraph 2.3 of the commentary on the consultation table. So I guess I'll get an answer at some point. And it is fair that the Minister for Justice has not answered yet, as I have been held here by a number of rapporteurs. So we have no objection to the right of withdrawal. I have said nothing but that we want to preserve the law as it is. It is not we who are the majority who want to change the law; it is we who stand on the side of the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414103010	Mrs. Zenia Stamp.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414103011	Yes, it can quickly be a discussion about: What is paternal, what is knowledgeable? Is it to stand and say: You must take responsibility for your actions; when you have pressed on buy, are you stuck with it? Or is it to say that you safeguard the right to think twice? In fact, I find it rather difficult to see that it is paternal, because it is not we who are going to make the decision. However, we safeguard the consumer's right to reflection. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414103037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414103038	That's quite interesting. I will have to hold on to the fact that if you and that is not the rapporteur I am talking to, so it is generally making your own choices, it is not patronising. When we as Parliament make choices for you, it is paternal. And if you try to enter into some semantic argument that it is in a different way, you are already far out on a paternal exaggeration, as I believe the Radical Left is moving further and further on and has done over the past decade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414103111	I am very aware of the point about you. You could say "man" and "sine." Then there is no doubt. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414103121	Thank you. I am very sorry to spoil this exciting debate between a former and a present member of the Radical Left. What is characteristic of both speakers is that neither of them has come to terms with what the bill is about, because exactly refrigerators and stoves can continue to buy, just as crazy as they want, since they are loans that are conditional on simultaneous purchases. You do not really need to read the entire bill; you can only read the summary of the seven lines that follows, i.e. loans which are made without collateral and without the condition of purchase or goods or services are excluded. So, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll can continue to buy both a stove and a refrigerator at the end of the month and he has no more money. You don't have to wait 48 hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414103208	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414103209	I was just beginning to worry that the questioner would add and a future member of the Radical Left, but I was reassured there. It was something else. Now the question is whether the person we are talking about can obtain the loan in question, as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen is talking about. Well, maybe they can't get it. You don't know that. That is an assessment in the individual case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414103233	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414103235	No, it's hard to imagine. So, L'EASY and Elgiganten and others. After all, you have security in the refrigerator, which you then buy at the price, and can come and pick up the refrigerator if the money is not paid. Therefore, it is quite easy to obtain this type of loan. What we are talking about here, quick loans, is, if I may say so, ready money where it is not to be answered for what they are then used for. There we can only guess what you, at the age of 19, can do to borrow money for a Friday afternoon. But this is the type of loan we are talking about and not loan to a refrigerator or stove, so that does not mean that the single mother cannot cook for her children for the next 48 hours because of some evil politicians. That is not what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414103321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414103322	I have to say that this is such a classic discipline of debate, as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen is also quite good at, first of all, raising a confusion about what is being discussed and then trying to claim that there are some other prerequisites than those we are talking about. I've never said anything but that it's a question of people borrowing their own money. What I'm saying is, I don't interfere with what they're for. So says Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen that it is generally easy to get some other loans, and blablabla. But as long as there is one person who cannot, it is of course relevant to make sure that there is a wider palette of opportunities. My point is, I don't interfere with what people spend their money on. And once they've borrowed them, it's their own job to decide what they're going to be used for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414103411	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414103419	Thank you. Today we are discussing Bill No. L 156, which is a draft law amending the law on credit agreements, and a mandatory period of reflection will be introduced when short-term consumer loans are concluded, what we also call quick loans. The alternative fully supports the Government's ambition to protect consumers. There will be consumer protection by introducing a 48-hour mandatory reporting period when short-term consumer credit contracts are concluded without collateral and without conditions for the purchase of goods or services, with a maximum maturity of three months. The alternative is very good and the draft law is clearly a step in the right direction in protecting citizens from quick loans. We believe that citizens should actually be protected from quick loans. But we are also of the opinion that it is too unambitious. The bill is clinging to the problem, but it is not a real solution. We therefore believe that quick loans should be banned altogether. Demand for quick loans has increased sharply. In 2010, some 20,000 quick loans were set up with a total loan of 37 million. kr. In 2014, the Danish Competition and Consumer Authority estimated that the number had increased to around 160,000 quick loans with a total loan amount of approximately 430 million. kr., so it's a market that's growing. Too many consumers cannot understand the consequences of such loans, and this, compared with how easy it is to borrow such a loan, makes it a companion for consumers. Many quick loans will not be repaid on time, and a large part will be sent to collections, which will send consumers into a debt spiral. As I said, the alternative supports the proposal. It is a step in the right direction, but we would like to see further progress being made in banning quick loans.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414103612	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stamp, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414103621	I was so happy when I read this bill, because I just got back from maternity leave and have to get used to the new reality where others have power, etc. And as a new court rapporteur, I thought that now I should go down and fight in the Assembly hall. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, not with the government. I was so pleasantly surprised when I read this bill, because I actually think it strikes an incredibly fine balance between values, which I think we all agree on should be balanced: the balance between guardianship and protection and between the consideration of the majority, which can manage this type of loan, and the minority, which has severe problems with it. There I think a really fine balance has been found, and we look forward to seeing what effect this will have. It may well be that further action must be taken if it does not have the desired effect, but at least we think it is a step in the right direction. We have to see if that is enough, we hope so. It may also be that we will have to go further at a later stage if it does not have the effect we hope to have. But at least we think this is a very good attempt to strike a balance that has not existed, as several people have pointed out from up here by referring to the development of quick loans and the severe problems it creates for people. So we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414103745	Thank you. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414103748	I would like to ask the rapporteur what the rapporteur thinks about the consumer council's proposal to ban this type of loan outright.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414103800	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414103801	We have been discussing quick loans on an ongoing basis in the radical parliamentary group, and we have also discussed the possibility of completely banning quick loans. We do not agree with that, because we also believe that many consumers actually benefit from these loans. But I'm also saying that if this doesn't have the desired effect, we're open to looking at other steps. Because it has far too much human costs for some of our perhaps most vulnerable citizens, as Mrs Sarah Glerup also mentioned, some of the citizens who may be desperate for various good reasons. We would very much like to take initiatives to remedy their problems and certainly have no ambition for them to have even greater problems. And that gives them quick loans, unfortunately, right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414103848	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414103904	To those who are interested in the history of interest rates over time, I can say that thick books have been written about it. It's very exciting reading. Back in the Roman Empire, both positions were actually held; at one point it was thought that interest rates were very good for promoting consumption and so on, but there was also a direct ban. This was also the case in Mosaic law, and perhaps Islamic law still teaches it, and so on. Danish legislation has also, over the ages, had a definite ban on taking interest on account of the ethical aspect of it. So this is something that has been under discussion for thousands of years, and now we are discussing it again. In fact, we have usury defined in section 282 of the Penal Code. The definition of usury is to exploit the need, lightness and lack of experience of others, and it is also roughly the concepts used in the penal code. I find it difficult to see why we are not discussing the fact that we actually have a criminal clause in the criminal code on usury and why we do not take that discussion into some of the completely bizarre examples we see, on usury rates for quick loans, SMS loans, web loans, etc. We would have seen in the SF that, on the basis of existing legislation, we said that the type of quick loan we are seeing today must be banned or, as we have previously proposed in the SF, together with the Social Democrats and Radicals and Enhedslisten, I believe that we are simply setting a ceiling on ÅOP, or that we are looking at additional opportunities for complaints boards, etc. Now I do not know whether the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur is still present, but it is, of course, a dilemma between the free choice of the individual that we should not be patronized and that we can also see that it actually has major consequences for the economy. As the alternative rapporteur, Mrs Josephine Fock, also mentioned, this is something that has multiplied over a few years, from a few thousand to over 160,000 in 2014. This proposal was a proposal from the Danish Competition and Consumer Authority last year, in 2015, when we discussed it, and it is a step on the way, so SF supports it of course. But we think we should keep discussing whether this is enough. We do not think so, nor does the Consumer Council think so, and it is a little interesting that an debt collection company, Indrum Justitia, which provides the names of over 40%. of the persons in the RKI simply refuse to recover the debt on the SMS and quick loans because they are ethically and morally reprehensible. It's a cashier who refuses to recover the debt on these loans. I really think that's what I'm saying. But this is a step on the way. The SF will table some amendments to go further, but with reference to the fact that we have criminal provisions in the criminal code on usury and that we must not take absurdly high interest rates, we would like to continue discussing this here. We do not think we have gone far enough, but it is better than nothing after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414104243	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the rapporteur for the Conservatives, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414104254	After all, we regularly have cases in this area where it can be said that the more pragmatic approach is against the principle or can do so to some extent. I think this case is an example of that. We want more focus on learning about economics from school, learning about taking responsibility, learning how a budget is linked, learning how our society is connected and how we as a family can become involved, so that we get an understanding, just as we must of course also hope that we get it from home. I was raised by my parents to save money before you buy anything. I grew up with a mother who worked at the local nursing home, and a father who ran a small farm, and then the money wasn't big. That's why you had to eat for nourishment and think about when you used what. There were many things you would like, sometimes you had to wait a little longer to get them. I know it sounds like a tale from the time of the king of diamonds, and that is no longer the case at all, but sometimes there are some values that we still have to hold on to, which are important for a society. These are now my values. This is also how the Conservative People's Party views it, so that we should of course be brought up to take responsibility as human beings. And I also think that the debate here shows that somewhere in our society there has been a new era and somewhere has taken a turn in what responsibility we ourselves must take as citizens of this country. But I also recognise that other people can want it differently. I'm not supposed to pull down on anyone else's head how I think. But one has the right to make unreasonable decisions as a human being. I probably wouldn't take a loan like this here, but you can choose to do it. I think it would be a good idea to consider the proposal in one of the hearings that a 48-hour right of withdrawal could then be granted free of charge and free of charge. It blows a little bit in the wind so do I in relation to the comments on the hearing answers where it stands, but peace be with it. I am in favour of the money being spent, but I do feel that we must be careful how far we want to go in a Parliament to take away all responsibility. And then it may happen that a 19-year-old boy borrows some money and spends it, but then it has to be because these are the values he has with him, and then he has to work it extra to pay that money back. I think there is something in principle in this proposal that means that we cannot support it, but that does not mean that we cannot see that there are a number of issues. Of course, there is what we basically do not want people to get into an economic situation where they are deeply indebted. But when we do the math board, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414104610	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first one is from Mrs. Sarah Glerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414104616	I just want to hear about this saving up for things you need or want. This is, of course, a very good idea, but how does the rapporteur think we should do it if, for example, we do so? is on cash benefits and therefore may only own values for a total of 10,000 DKK.?
ParlaMint-DK_20160414104631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414104632	But it is true that not everyone is necessarily in a situation where they can save a lot; I fully agree with that. That is also why we here in the Folketing are taking a large number of other initiatives to create something more growth, to do something more to get more people into work so that they can get out of that situation. We should just hold on to the fact that the cash aid would like to be something you're on temporarily, even though some unfortunately are for many years. At least you can get into a situation where you need to take a loan like this. It is not certain that the 48 hours will change that, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414104707	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414104713	How do the rapporteur and chairman of the Conservatives feel about usury?
ParlaMint-DK_20160414104721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414104722	I don't feel good about that. I do not know what the questioner is referring to, other than that none of us would want that. I mean, I'm not a liberal, I don't want a totally free market. I would also like to say that it is not, of course, because we have no legislation today. I'm just saying that the legislation we have today is okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414104745	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414104747	Yes, in the criminal code we have a provision for usury that is not specifically defined, but that we must not exploit the lightness, inexperience, addiction, etc. But I would like to say that is quite close to the definition of some of the worst types of quick loans we have seen, among other things. the way in which they are targeted certain types of people with whom those letters come in through the mailbox. Well, we know that. There is a profiling, in terms of who should have the physical letters, also in relation to who the ads are addressed on the web etc. And there is not an upper limit for the ÅOP. There is very little regulation in relation to how much people can end up having to pay for this. That's why I'm asking about usury. Because all this taking care of the weakest, those who may not be able to see through these actions, is also part of the conservative history. Even in Danish Law, with which I think the Conservatives have a special relationship, there is a direct provision for a maximum of 6%, which was introduced by Christian V. But leave it alone. It is more the general approach to usury and to what must be put off those who cannot understand their own actions, for which I am asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414104921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414104923	May I first express an incredible pleasure that the SF's rapporteur refers to the importance of the royal house and of what else they have contributed through the ages. I'm also saying that this is kind of a proposal where you weigh it a little on a weight. So, on the one hand, we have a desire to do something to ensure that young people or others do not find themselves in a situation in which they are heavily and violently indebted and have a long, long journey ahead of them to get out of it. But on the other hand, I don't think we should just leave them behind or say to them: you don't really have any responsibility for that. I think this is a balance: where do we draw the line in relation to when to take responsibility for the life you live? And that is why we choose to say that we believe that the legislation that exists today is acceptable to us. That's why we're voting against this bill in 48 hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414105018	Mrs. Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414105020	Thank you. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen speaks a lot about values and also about education. I do not want to say that we are almost the same age, but we are probably from the same time when one of the very values that each of us has been brought up with is that we save up before we consume, and that is actually a very good starting point for creating ourselves a healthy and sustainable economy. It is a principle, and I continue to pay a great deal of tribute to that value. But I'm worried when Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen so much says that it is a matter of one's own making a mess if, if one has been tempted by one's ability and has thereby become overly indebted, it must be the responsibility of the individual. I thought that, as a Conservative, humanism and humanity were just being hailed, and I would just like to remind Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen said that it would take an immense amount of debt to get rid of such a heavy debt. So what other points can the rapporteur of the Conservatives make if we do not start by curbing irresponsible indebtedness with such a proposal? What other things do the Conservatives have in the bag to prevent you from getting into such a miserable situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160414105131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414105132	I will avoid giving a very, very long answer about where I think this is starting, namely from the children being very young and the way we should have done something completely different in our society, that is to say to have a moral armament for what responsibility we are teaching our children from the start to take in our society. What kind of society do we want to live in? We need to take care of each other. I fully agree with the questioner that we need to keep our hands under those who cannot do it themselves. That is absolutely essential, even in conservatism, but I just think that we should be careful to say that all people who then take a quick loan are people who belong to a weak group who are not able to think for themselves, which we must then go in from the Folketing and change legislation. Does the questioner think that the 48 hours will mean that we will not have any problems anymore? I guess we all agree that the point of this proposal is to think about it for 48 hours, and then you drive. You might think that a lot of those who wanted this money are going to borrow it after 48 hours anyway. I'm just saying just as quietly: I guess we can't take responsibility for people, for ordinary people. You still have a responsibility. Then, of course, we must enlighten people and do everything we can to ensure that we do not make any very unreasonable decisions in our eyes, but that we have a society in which we have to legislate in this Parliament about all kinds of possible, unreasonable decisions that people can make, make us get really busy in here, because we allow very unreasonable things in this country. We're gonna have to smoke and drink and everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414105253	Mrs. Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414105256	Thank you. After all, I can hear that there are certain points on which we can probably agree to do something to prevent irresponsible indebtedness. It is not only young people who take these, I fully agree, and I also fully agree that those who are desperate enough may go out and lend them somewhere else. That is why I do not think, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, that this is enough to prevent irresponsible indebtedness. I believe that this is a right step, but the first step in the direction that the Socialists would like to continue to take. Well, I don't agree with Mr. Knox. Søren Pape Poulsen, when he says that it is information and education that needs to be given, and I hope the rapporteur agrees with me on this. So in the best of all worlds, we didn't have to legislate on anything at all, because then we were all good and sensible and acted financially responsibly. It doesn't add up like that. That is why it is our joint responsibility as politicians to go in and create a framework. So I want to hear whether the Conservative People's Party, together with the Social Democrats and other rapporteurs and other parties who have also spoken here today, should try to ensure that there is a sensible framework which ensures that we do not have irresponsible indebtedness, will help to work. If this is not the proposal, will the Conservative People's Party help to work on other points?
ParlaMint-DK_20160414105404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414105407	Well, now it's a very open question, because what is it? But that is something we want to contribute to. That is also why I said in my introduction that I also think that this is about one thing: working to ensure that we do not get into this as far as we can; another thing is also about • and I do not think that we should ignore that we also learn from school what a budget really is for something, what an economy is all the way through. I would like to discuss many measures, including those with the Socialists, about what we can do to prevent people from getting involved in this, because we agree that it is unfortunate when people are going to be in debt wildly and violently. I just hope that we agree that this proposal does not mean that, after 48 hours, people cannot go back into debt. I think we agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414105455	Thank you to the rapporteur. No more rapporteurs have asked to speak, and that is why we are moving on to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414105510	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the largely positive reception of the draft law. There seems to be broad support for the government's proposal to introduce a mandatory period of reflection when concluding short-term consumer loans, the so-called quick loans. First of all, I would like to make it clear that, as a starting point, I believe that everyone should be free to conclude the agreements that they wish to conclude. Our freedom of agreement is an absolutely fundamental principle, and we must safeguard that. The mandatory reporting period proposed by the government with this bill represents a balance between the freedom of agreement on the one hand and the need for consumer protection on the other. A market survey published last year by the Danish Competition and Consumer Protection Agency gives a picture of the need for increased consumer protection in relation to short-term consumer loans. The investigation shows that many consumers are facing financial difficulties because they have been tempted by a quick loan paid out by creditors immediately after consumers have requested it via the Internet or SMS. The study also shows that consumers find it difficult to understand the consequences of the type of loan in question. For many consumers, the loan turns out to be more expensive and harder to pay back than expected, and this is due, among other things, to. the very short maturity. On the basis of the report, it can be noted that in many cases short-term consumer loans are concluded with consumers who cannot repay the loan in good time, despite the fact that the credit contract law already exists today, among other things. requires credit providers to carry out a creditworthiness assessment of the consumer before a contract is concluded. Further consumer protection is therefore needed in relation to these loans. The proposed mandatory reporting period should allow the consumer to reconsider the loan and its borrowing requirement. It is a sort of cooling off period, at the Danish cooling period, where the consumer gets the loan a little away and gets quiet to think about and consider whether the loan is now also necessary. For the same reason, the draft law also contains an obligation on the creditor not to contact the consumer regarding the loan offer. If, during the period of the report, the creditor keeps calling or writing to the consumer about the loan, it will counteract the cooling effect that is the purpose of the report period. After the period of the report, consumers who are still interested in taking up the short-term consumer credit can freely accept the loan offer received. In other words, no one is being cut off from borrowings that are simply being made sure that there is a real possibility of entering such a credit agreement with open eyes. This strikes a balance between freedom of agreement and consumer protection, which is supposedly needed. With those comments, I should once again like to thank the rapporteurs for their contributions. I look forward to further discussion in the Folketing, and I am also available to answer any questions that may arise, which reminds me that Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll asked me a question. And it is quite right that the credit agreement law already contains the requirement that the creditor should provide certain information to the consumer about the credit rating. In addition, the marketing law must be observed when creditors advertise how easy it is to obtain the loans in question. I do not believe that the tightening up of these rules will solve the problem of many consumers being in financial difficulties after taking out short-term consumer loans. The consumer ombudsman is already monitoring the compliance of credit providers with the rules, particularly in relation to their marketing of short-term consumer loans and, as the report I have mentioned, the Competition and Consumer Protection Authority shows, a number of short-term consumer loans are still being concluded with consumers who cannot repay the loan. Given the problems identified by the report in the Quick Loan market, it is estimated that the time has come for further action to be taken in this regard, but otherwise I am looking forward to clarifying the answers to any questions that may be raised during the committee's proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414105900	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is over. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414105914	The debate is open and the first to speak is Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414105935	When you draw an insurance or a pension, it makes good sense in the Social Democrats to draw it on the basis of your own personal health and health conditions. However, that is not the case today. Today, insurance and pension companies can ask about your relatives' health and history. So you might get an elevated premium because your mother, for example, carries a hereditary illness. This logic may seem straightforward, but basically it is unfair. First, the information on one's relatives will most often be incomplete, and therefore the enlightened basis is more of name than of benefit. Secondly, hereditary diseases are not as square a size as they are in the current insurance and pension system. After all, inheritance varies from disease to disease. One can easily be related to a person who has a fatal disease and one can even be the carrier of the disease gene, but it is no guarantee that the disease will develop in oneself. In addition, medical science also becomes better and better at understanding, treating and curing hereditary diseases, and fortunately for it. This means that some years later, diseases that in the past, for example, led to a loss of professional capacity, can be treated in a way that allows you to live with it. It needs to be taken into account when we talk about insurance and pensions, because it is fundamentally unfair that you have to pay a higher premium because you are related to a disease-stricken person, but it is far from certain that you are affected by the disease yourself. The draft law extends the ban on obtaining and using health information on the family of the insured person or pensioner. As a result, it will no longer be possible to obtain information on the health of relatives when taking out an insurance or pension. The bill protects those insured today in a system with an unfair understanding of the consequences of hereditary diseases, and the Socialists can support it on that basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414110137	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next one is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414110146	The intention of the proposal is to extend a ban on obtaining certain health information when drawing up a pension or insurance. Specifically, when a person seeks insurance or a pension, he must not use or obtain information about the health and health of family members in the future. Those limitations do not exist to the same degree today. The information will often not be very precise, and this is due to the fact that you cannot directly catch up with them, but that it will only depend on what the person who wants an insurance or pension can report about the situation, and so they do not have much accuracy. Even if the information were accurate, they would probably rarely be able to tell the unique story of the policy holder, as the disease that you are genetically predisposed to may not be expressed, and it will therefore be a matter of providing very personal information from you. So with this proposal, you're going to stop this opportunity. In the Danish People's Party, we fully endorse the intentions of the proposal, and we therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414110257	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414110304	Thank you. Today, insurance companies and pension funds may require information about past and current family history if a person wishes to take out life insurance, for example. This may, in the final analysis, mean that the person concerned cannot take out the insurance on account of the family information in question. In the future, the proposal does not provide for the possibility of obtaining the relevant information on the diseases of the members of the family. The reality is that people today are far from at risk of disease because of family predisposition. In addition, the information you can obtain on family members often has no validity and is largely based on hearing evidence, i.e. what you have heard from uncles and aunts. It's not a good basis, and that's what the Medical Association says. They say that information about past and current diseases in the family is not suitable for assessing the risk of a person developing a disease. In our view, people with family illness should have no more difficulty in taking out insurance than other people. It is by no means certain that you have inherited your family's disease, and if you are hereditaryly predisposed to a disease, it is not certain that you are developing the disease. So, in our opinion, this proposal will be of benefit to insured persons with family members who may, perhaps, not know that we barely know... have had illnesses relevant to the insurance plan. They are no longer at risk of being refused or increased premiums on the basis of information which may not be relevant at all and which is not valid at all. So the Left can largely support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414110503	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sarah Glerup, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414110520	L 157 will prohibit insurance companies and pension funds from obtaining health information, not just about the person seeking a pension or insurance, but about the person's relatives. This is basically a sensible proposal that Enhedslisten supports for three reasons. First of all, we are talking about sensitive information. Access to such things must always be kept in mind, and in this case it is even handed over by another person. Secondly, information on the health of relatives is often incomplete and unreliable. You don't have access to your brother's or your mother's records, so the information is often based on what you happen to know, understand or remember. Thirdly, information about your family's health does not necessarily say anything about your own risks of becoming ill or being injured. Inheritance is not clear. The environment, prevention and chance play a major role. That is why it has to be said that, when it is the case today that insurance companies and pension funds reject or demand a higher premium from healthy people because they have sick family members, there is unspeakable discrimination, and the Enhedslisten would like to help stop that. Our only objection to the draft law is, in fact, that we would have liked it to be more far-reaching. On this point, we are in line with what Danske Handicaporganisations write in their hearing response. They write: "As the legal state is today, an insurance company is free to choose whether to take out insurance with an insurance seeker. This puts many people with disabilities • people with chronic illness, mental illness, development impairment, sensory disability and many more • in a worse situation than others. I am actually one of those who, because of a disability, cannot get an accident insurance. I have a little brother with no muscle loss who has an excellent insurance policy. He runs, climbs, skis. So guess for yourself, which one of us would draw the most on an accident insurance policy. When insurance companies and pension funds reject people because they, for example, reject people. In other words, if there is a loss of muscle or any other disability, it is just as unspeakable discrimination as when healthy citizens with sick family members are rejected. Only in 2014, the Institute for Human Rights published a so-called policy brief in which they suggested that Denmark should ban discrimination against people with disabilities in connection with health insurance and life insurance. We have already committed ourselves to doing this through Article 25a of the Disability Convention. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that all unbiased discrimination in relation to pensions and insurance must be stopped, and on that point L 157 is not sufficient. However, this is a step in the right direction, which we clearly support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414110825	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414110840	Thank you. The purpose of the draft law is that insurance companies and pension funds should only receive and process information necessary and relevant for the conclusion of an agreement. At the same time, healthy persons should not be deprived of the possibility of taking out insurance and pensions on a basis that is incorrect and inadequate. Therefore, it is proposed that the current ban on obtaining and using certain health information for the drawing of insurance and pensions should be extended so that insurance companies and pension funds may in future not use health information about the relatives of an insurance or pensionee at the time of subscription. We in the Liberal Alliance are in favour of this. In fact, we think it is a sympathetic proposal and we also hope to be able to vote in favour of the overall proposal when we come to the third reading. However, we think that the government and the Folketing should be aware of the requests we have received from the insurance industry on the occasion of the proposal. They are based on the idea of setting certain limits to which derogations from the new rules are granted. Of course, for reasons of principle one can say that no, one will not do that because it is a principle that they should not be able to obtain this information. And I can understand it if you hold on to it. What may just be the problem is that there are a number of customers who are currently drawing up very large life insurance which will be prevented from taking out insurance at all in the future, because insurance companies will not be offering these insurances unless they can get this information. This is probably a very few percent of the most expensive insurance, so it is not something that affects, it can be said, the general public. What this is all about is that there are people, especially in the case of family-owned companies, which you would like to have the opportunity to transfer if the owner dies, who would like to have the opportunity to take out large insurances of two-digit millions: 10, 20, 30, 40 million. kr. If we cut off the possibility of taking out these insurances in the future, we will prevent the generational change which may be desired in a family and which can of course be decisive for whether the family has any chance of keeping a farm or a small business at all. That is why we hope that the government and the Folketing will be prepared to look at the possibility of introducing certain limits to which certain information can still be obtained. It is the case that, in our neighbouring country of Sweden, what I mention is actually being done, probably for exactly the same reason. It might be that we should be inspired by our brothers, so that it was possible for people with typical small and medium-sized enterprises, sometimes also in agriculture, to make a generational change, even if the owner had to die suddenly. So with that addition, we very much hope to be able to get the goodwill of the rest of the Parliament, if nothing else, to enter into a dialogue on it. In all tranquillity we also understand it if we think that the principle is so important that we cannot make the exception. We just think it would be a shame because it hits quite specific people in the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414111219	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414111232	We are now considering bill L 157 which is a draft law amending the law on insurance contracts and the law on the supervision of company pension funds. This is an extension of the prohibition on obtaining and using certain health information in drawing, etc. of insurance and pensions. As mentioned above, the aim is to extend the existing ban on obtaining and using certain health information when drawing up insurance and pensions. The alternative is fully in line with the Government's wish that insurance companies and pension funds should in future not use health information about the relatives of an insurance or pensionee in connection with the drawing of insurance and pensions respectively. It is particularly because of the uncertainty associated with such information and the very personal nature of the information. It seems obvious that only necessary, relevant and valid information should be available. Of course, healthy persons should not be deprived of the opportunity to take out insurance and pensions on a basis that is totally misleading. Information on the health of relatives is often inadequate, as the data, for example, are not available. comes from the pensioner himself, who many times does not have a medical overview. Moreover, it is far from certain that you yourself become ill even if you are hereditaryly predisposed to a particular disease. Furthermore, this is highly personal and sensitive information which should be processed only if necessary and relevant, which is clearly not the case in this case. So the alternative is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414111402	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414111411	Thank you. We also think it is a very good bill. You don't have to run up stairs, even if there aren't that many steps! We think, as has been said up here, that it is unfair, it is discriminatory, it is unspeakable to the insurer, but it is also a problem for the relatives, because it is their personal information that is passed on. Not many people have mentioned the relatives up here, but I really think that the discussion about them is just as fundamental. In order for their children to take out insurance, their relatives need to disclose deeply personal information about themselves. I think that is quite offensive to the relatives. It can also lead to a situation where you start withholding information for your children because you do not want it to have negative consequences for them if they one day have to take out insurance. So we think this bill is really good because the current state of affairs is both unfair, discriminatory and unspeakable to the insurer, but also deeply intimidating to the relatives whose information is passed on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414111523	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414111531	Let me begin by commending the government and the Minister. I think this is a very good proposal. After all, the private insurance company is based on information that must be relevant to insuranceing people against future events. What we are discussing today, however, is precisely the validity of the information, as the previous rapporteurs have said, that it is a question of sensitive data, that a great deal has been done in medicine over the past many years, so that even in hereditary diseases most people can be stopped and treated so that they do not influence the insurance premium. So all in all, we think it is a very good proposal. I was a little unsure about what the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance is now also going to exactly with life insurance. For us in the SF, the starting point is that there must be completely reasonable and valid information that insurance companies must be able to use. This should not be something that can be dealt with by asking relatives, since there is still no access to medical records or information that the rapporteur of the Radicals has referred to. So we need something that is more valid because it is important information to be provided.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414111711	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414111718	It's hard to come up with a lot of new good arguments. I can also only say that we support the draft law in the simple sense that it must be the insured person's own circumstances that are assessed and not those of relatives. Otherwise, I think that there are a great many good arguments for this to be a very good legislative proposal which we will vote for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414111749	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414111754	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. There seems to be an even extremely broad support for the government's proposal to extend the ban on the use of certain health information by, inter alia, drawing on insurance and pensions. I'm glad. Let me start by pointing out that it is the government's view that as far as possible it must be ensured that insurance companies and pension funds can offer citizens insurance and pensions on reasonable terms. By drawing etc. For this reason, companies must, of course, be given the opportunity to obtain the health information necessary and relevant to assess the risk of sickness for insurance or pensioners. We therefore do not intend to cut companies off from obtaining information about the past or current state of health of insurance or pensioners. Today, however, insurance companies and pension funds may also require information on past and current family history when a person wishes to take out insurance or conclude a pension agreement. It is information which is involved in the risk assessment and which may, in the extreme, mean that the person concerned cannot take out the insurance requested. Neither the insured person nor the pensioner, nor the insurance or pension companies have access to the medical records of the insured person or of the pensioner's relatives, etc. Such health information, often called family history, will therefore be based on the memory of the insured and retired person and may be characterised by poor information or misconceptions. At the same time, it has been observed that in all cases there is no risk of developing a disease, even if it is hereditary. In addition, increased focus on prevention means that many hereditary diseases are treated and stopped before they develop. Seen in the light of, among other things, I do not believe that such information should be included in the risk assessment carried out by the companies. The proposed amendment therefore means that insurance companies and pension funds may in future not request, obtain or receive and use health information about the relatives of insurance or pensioners, either by entering into their own insurance or pension agreement or by amending existing agreements. This ensures that healthy persons are not deprived of the possibility of taking out insurance on a false or defective basis. With those comments, I should once again like to thank the rapporteurs for their contributions. I look forward to further consideration here in the Danish Parliament and we will of course be available to answer any questions raised in this connection by the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414112046	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414112113	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Transport and Building.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414112141	Thank you for that, President. I would, of course, like to make a few comments on both proposals. It is, of course, the case that we are dealing with the legislative proposal that I have tabled, L 161, together with the motion for a resolution, B 79, and, as I shall finally speak again, what I will say about L 161 will be brief. However, I would just like to say briefly what the purpose of the draft law is, and that is primarily to improve road safety for young drivers in traffic. We do so by proposing the introduction of an authorisation into the Road Traffic Code to establish a three-year pilot scheme which allows 17-year-olds to obtain a driving licence, subject to the condition that they are accompanied by an adult experienced driver when driving until the age of 18. So, in that year, from the age of 17 to the age of 18, they must be accompanied by an adult experienced driver. When we think this is a good proposal, it is special because in Germany they have had such a scheme for a number of years and it has actually been shown that young people who are travelling with a companion in the first year have 22 per cent. fewer accidents than those released into traffic on their own after taking a driving licence in accordance with normal rules. Furthermore, the legislative proposal seeks to improve the mobility of young road users outside the major cities, and we do so by reintroducing the reduction of the age limit for driving licences to small mopeds to 15 years, which was adopted in 2011, but never came into force. In this context, it is proposed to introduce a requirement for parental consent in connection with the sale or other handover of mopeds to young people under 16 years of age. Such a requirement will help parents to be involved when 15-year-olds want to drive mopeds. I am, of course, looking forward to hearing the debate that is now coming to Parliament on this and would like to say at the outset that, of course, I always hope that we can meet together on a joint compromise proposal. But I have to say that this is something that is very important because, among other things, it is. This means a great deal to young people's mobility, and that is of course important. Let me now say on the second proposal, namely B 79, which is a proposal for a parliamentary decision on driving licences for large mopeds and for small motorcycle for 16-year-olds: the government is concerned with the issue of driving licences for small mopeds, and that is also why the government has proposed that 15-year-olds should be able to obtain driving licences for small mopeds. That's the one that drives 30 km/h, and that's the one I just mentioned. The government finds this proposal quite interesting, because large mopeds and smaller motorcycles differ in some respects from the small mopeds. First of all, they drive faster. The large mopeds drive 45 km/h and the small motorcycles drive 100 km/h, and when you see it compared to the small mopeds, there is not least a difference between them and what is called a small motorcycle. In addition, the large mopeds together with the other faster and heavier traffic on the lanes, while the small mopeds drive on the cycle path. So the big ones drive along with the other faster and heavier traffic while the small ones drive on the bike path. The bikes, which can go up to 100 km/h, also run on the motorway. A reduction in the age limit should take account of road safety, which the government attaches great importance to, and the government wants a thorough expert assessment of the proposal. The Government will therefore look into the consequences of the proposal before reducing the age limit. That is why I would also like to say to the authors of the motion that the government cannot support the resolution as it stands, but we are happy to help look at it and I hope that we can perhaps meet in an understanding with each other that this is something we can drill out and look at over the summer. But I think we owe each other that we're trying to find each other somehow. As I said, we can understand the proposers. We can see the point. We know that here too the proposers are concerned about ensuring the mobility of young people and so on, and we think that is an appealing point of view. We are also concerned about it, but we just want us to do it the way I just described it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414112631	There's one question. Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414112636	In relation to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, I understand that the Minister and the government want this examined, and I think that is, of course, quite good. But what does the Minister really think here? In other words, it is a question of unleashing 16-year-olds on a vehicle, one of the most dangerous vehicles, namely motorcycles that can drive 100 km/h. in traffic, among cars and trucks, on motorways. What does the Minister think it will do for road safety?
ParlaMint-DK_20160414112719	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414112722	I believe that with regard to the motion for a resolution, which deals with both the fact that young people of 16 years of age should be allowed to drive on large mopeds and that young people of 16 years of age should be allowed to drive on a small motorcycle, it is useful to have it drilled out and examined. I also believe that both elements need to be looked at when discussing them. So that's my position. On the whole, I must say that I have the position, as I did with another proposal that we discussed, namely on caravans, trailers and something like that, that it is good to meet people, those who also know something about it, and then hear them and have a good talk. That is why I would like to say right now that if the committee believes that they would like us to come over and carry out a review or that we have a discussion, I shall of course make myself available.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414112809	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Prehn. Sir. Kim Christiansen finally comes up with both proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414112826	We need to sort out procedures and order. I know that during my 11 years in the Folketing I have not tried to have legislative proposals and resolutions dealt with together, so it is a little different from what was just prepared. But it's interesting enough to have this discussion. The government has been clear and clear in the language since it arrived this summer. You want younger people to get into traffic. First of all, there has been the proposal, which is also the main proposal in the legislative proposal, namely that we should open the way for 17-year-olds to have driving licences for cars, but one is then obliged to have another driver in the car as a sort of companion to monitor driving and see if things are going on sensibly. You're so committed to the first year you drive around. There must be someone 30 years old who has had a driving licence for 10 years and has not been denied the card in the car. I would like to say that, from the Socialist side, we have been sceptical about the part that was in the draft law here about reducing the age of driving licences for cars. However, we have also listened to the experiences of, for example, the European Parliament. Germany. We can see that the fact that you have some sort of secondary education, that as a young person who has a driving licence, you spend the first time driving with an experienced driver, can actually strengthen road safety. That's why we've turned it around a little and looked at the experiences there are. I would like to say that we see some opportunities in the concrete proposal to reduce the age of driving licences to 17 if it is the case that an experienced driver is required to be in the car for the first year. So instead of throwing yourself directly into traffic on your own, you will be trained with an experienced driver. It may be a father or a mother; it may be an uncle; it may be a youth school teacher, or it may be something else entirely. Unfortunately, not everyone has grown up in homes where both parents have a driving licence and can help you. So there's also some difference there. However, the proposal suggests that there is some flexibility in who the adult can be, so we also hope that others other than those who have parents with a driving licence can have the opportunity to drive a little and gain some experience. This means that you get a completely different education in what healthy behaviour in traffic is. That is why we think it is a good idea to say yes to the first part of the legislative proposal. We in the Socialist Group can be involved in this, because everything else will mean getting some more experienced drivers released once they start driving on their own. That part of it we think is positive. Then there's the part about being able to drive small mopeds even when you're 15 years old. You can't stop thinking that there's a little bit of me and Charlie about it. You see the Minister of Transport and Mr. Kim Christiansen sits on a moped, and the minister wants to drill out the bill, and you start associating everything with this moped, and you see fox tails and Mabel hairstyle and everything else for yourself. But we know from experience, and that is also what we can see in the consultation answers, that unfortunately there are a lot of accidents when very young people are released from mopeds. It is also for this reason that the Council for Safe Transport, Falck and a number of other different ones, which have given answers to this particular part, are concerned. So we will not be able to support this part of the proposal. We would like to call for the legislative proposal to be split into two, so that we have the opportunity to vote in favour of the first part, which deals with driving licences for 17-year-olds, i.e. accompanying arrangements with a mature driver, but would like to vote against the part about moped drivers being able to drive earlier. In any case, we think that if you make these changes, it is something that needs to be evaluated, so we will also propose an evaluation system so that after a while you can look at what the consequences have been. Has it created more road safety, or has it created new problems? And if it has created new problems, of course we have to look at it again. It is therefore a concrete proposal by the Social Democrats to divide this bill into two parts, as we would like to vote in favour of the first part, but no to the last. Then there is the motion for a resolution which suggests that when it comes to large mopeds and definite little motorcycles, you should also be allowed to drive at 16 years old. The argument is then that it is important for the sake of mobility. It is not, of course, because we in the Socialist Group are not aware that in certain sparsely populated areas there may be real problems in getting to and from technical school, to and from high school, to and from leisure activities, leisure jobs, whatever they may be. Getting off on a moped or something can help. It's not at all because we don't have a look at it. But, on the other hand, answers from those actors in the field who have also given a hearing response to the moped to 15-year-olds show that they are strongly opposed to it because they think it would be very problematic for road safety. And we are therefore humble enough from the Socialist side to say that we simply do not dare. When those who work with it professionally say that it is too dangerous, we cannot vote for it here, although we can see that there may be some mobility issues in it. We have heard that the Minister of Transport has indicated that it will be looked into, and the Minister of Transport also regularly shows that it may be a good idea to meet people and talk things through. We would therefore like to wait for what is being said, but as a starting point we are very sceptical and critical of this proposal. We don't think that's a good idea. Finally, let me add that when we have a little more speaking time, because the proposals have been merged, to both the moped part of the legislative proposal and to the motion for a resolution on mopeds and motorcycles, that when we talk about mobility, we must be careful to solve the problem of the state we ourselves have helped to create in the more sparsely populated areas where it is extremely difficult to get a bus to and from educational institutions, or a bus to and from leisure activities, with more individual driving. It may well be that we had to look at what we can do to strengthen public transport in some of those areas. The previous government had in the conciliation circle about better and cheaper public transport, where the Danish People's Party is also involved, the agreement that we had a special pool of initiatives to raise public transport in the more sparsely populated areas. There are also new initiatives and alternative offers and such things. We should not forget that part. We have to be careful that it does not just become a bad excuse, and so we tell people who live there, where there is longer between houses, that they can just get a moped or a small motorcycle, and then it's all solved. This will mean that those who do not want to drive on a moped or a small motorcycle, or those who are older or disabled or are children, will find it even harder to get on a bus because some of the young people who are on the buses today will choose moped instead. So this is an issue that we must take very seriously. I think we have all seen as transport policyers, that if you talk to transport policyers from other countries, you see that some of what they are most jealous of about us Danes when it comes to transport policy is our good cycling culture. We have such a good tradition that people bike to and from school, to and from work, and we know that this cycling culture starts with as a child and young person bicycles to school, bicycles to high school, bicycles to technical school. And if you put too much pressure on the boilers with drilled mopeds and all the things of the world at an all too young age, then we are afraid that you will move the transport away from bicycles, away from public traffic and onto motorised vehicles, which undermine the cycle culture, undermine public transport and which is also unfortunate for road safety. That is why we are also sceptical about the motion for a resolution, just as we are opposed to the part of the legislative proposal which will make it legal to run mopeds at the age of 15. However, we are, as always, open to arguments, which is why I am also looking forward to today's debate. I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for putting the issue on the agenda, because it is a very good idea to discuss things. That is what we brought from the Socialist side.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414113759	Thank you. There are a few questions, first from Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414113805	The rapporteur began his speech by saying that he could see some opportunities in the question of the system of allowing 17-year-olds to drive a driving licence and driving with a companion. However, it ended up with Mr. Rasmus Prehn stated that you can back that up. Are there no reservations in that support at all? I can refer to the consultation of the Council on Safe Transport, which is otherwise favourable to the proposal, but which has a whole series of reservations, not least with regard to the accompanying system, because no type of approval of the accompanying person is built in. You just have to have a driver's license for 10 years, and you shouldn't have had a disclaimer for a 10-year period. But for example... Two clips in the driving licence in the last year do not mean that you cannot drive as a companion. I guess there's something about bad traffic habits being transferred if you don't have some kind of requirement for the approval of those escorts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414113922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414113925	I'm always very fond of Mr. Knox. Henning Hyllested's critical question, because it means that the treatment of the proposals comes to a higher level and that you just reach a spade stick deeper. I would like to elaborate on our demands. I mentioned it a little, but I do not think I have answered it adequately enough. We think it is important that there is a very clear framework for who can be a companion and who cannot. And it is thus the case that it is defined that you must be 30 years old, so it is not some 22-year-old charlatan who has just received cards and who is going to help little brother get started. It's a mature driver. You must have a driving licence for 10 years, and you must not have had any disqualifications. So there is a clear framework. They can be discussed as to whether we should expand. I do not wish to rule that out in advance, but I really think it is a very good framework that is here. That is very clear. For the Social Democrats, it is important that there is proper control over these things too, and then, as I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, it is important that the system be evaluated so that we can see whether it goes as it does in Germany, where experience is good, or whether there are actually some unfortunate consequences of it. So we are going to ask the Minister some questions during the committee procedure, so we are sure that this is the right thing to do in this area. However, if we do this in the right way, then there is also some indication that it may be a step in the right direction, and that is what the consultation answers say.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414114050	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414114053	The fact that you are 30 years old does not guarantee your experience as a driver. You could have had a driver's license since you were 18 years old without driving a single mile. It may well be that people over the age of 30 have less driving experience than those who have just received their driving licence and who, after all, have just completed driving training. In other words, there will be no demands in this regard. There is no requirement for driving experience, for example. I've been driving so much and you can prove that you've been driving so much. So it is both something and nothing to demand that you be 30 years old. Reference was made to Germany. But Germany has just requirements for the accompanying scheme. It's not just a 30-year-old guy with 10 years without a warrant. There are quite strict requirements for not least the escorts. This also applies to some of the other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414114152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414114155	Well, as I said, we would like to look at whether to tighten up the requirements. As a starting point, I think that these are excellent and fine guidelines. I think you're gonna get experienced drivers out of this. I think there is a very good opportunity to ensure that experienced drivers come as escorts. We must also be careful not to have an excessively rigid and zealous system where it can be costly and everything else to control it here. The experience that there is a system of accompanying driving with a driver who is mature and who has had a driving licence for a number of years is therefore good, and we think it is worth a try. But we'd like to evaluate it after a while.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414114245	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414114251	Thank you. I think that is a good thing. I'd like to ask about something. Sir. Rasmus Prehn says about the part with the 15-year-olds that all statistics show many accidents among young people. I do not know where the statistics come from, because those I have seen, precisely concerning mopeds, show that this is mostly the case for middle-aged men, i.e. those whom we call, in our daily speeches, those with the Arlakassen in the back, who experience the vast majority of accidents among moped drivers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414114325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414114329	Now there is not so much statistics in Denmark about 15-year-olds on mopeds, all the time that it is not legal to run mopeds when you are 15 years old. So it's old experience there is. What I mentioned wasn't statistics. It was about the stakeholders who wrote the consultation answer, and it is Falck, it is DTU Transport, it is the Consumer Council, it is the Cyclist Association, it is the Youth School Leader Association, it is the Sustainable Traffic Council, it is the Council for Safe Traffic etc. etc. There's a lot of people warning about this, and that's kind of just what we're listening to. When we haven't had legal moped rides for 15-year-olds, we don't really have any statistics on it. But we know that when we had it, we had to change it because there were simply too many accidents. There was also a lot of noise, noise, us and race in villa neighbourhoods and everything else that was bothering a lot of citizens. So there have been some reasons why it has been changed, and that is what we have listened to. And that with the many accidents in the slightly more mature age group may be linked to the fact that there may also be a tendency that there may have been other involvement than age. There may also be an over-representation of motor vehicles or other things. I am not an expert on statistics in this area, but I humbly listen to what these stakeholders have said.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414114454	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414114457	Now it should not be a dispute over words, but I certainly believe that Mr. Rasmus Prehn said that statistically it was known that there were many accidents among young people. I just haven't seen anything there. Them, like Mr. Rasmus Prehn then mentions, are all sorts of well-meaning organizations, among others. DTU, who comes with some prophecies that there will be more killed here. We really do not know about this, because it is not really the young people who are making the accidents on mopeds, it is not the 16-18-year-olds, it is therefore a little older people. And then we can discuss what the cause could be. But now that Mr. Rasmus Prehn will not allow young people to drive on a moped that can drive 30 km/h., how does Mr. Rasmus Prehn saw that young people aged 13-14 years can buy an e-bike that can drive 25 km/h.? Isn't that a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20160414114549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414114553	After all, we have also had the question of electric bicycles in the Chamber. Now there is not the same focus among young people on riding an e-bike as there is on getting a moped that drives fast, so we have not seen the same challenge in relation to e-bikes when we talk about young people. The issue of electric bicycles is, of course, a phenomenon that is first and foremost common in seniors, and there may also be enough problems in it. Therefore, it is also strongly recommended that you bike with a helmet when riding an e-bike. But, of course, we need to be able to discuss this here in a context, and if so, sir. Kim Christiansen has documentation and statistics that show some of these things, I'd like to look at it with him. We in the Social Democratic Party are always open and humble to knowledge. But when so many of those who sit and work with it as experts warn against it, we are therefore skeptical as a starting point, and I hope that Mr. Kim Christiansen and Dansk Folkeparti respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414114658	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line with Mr Beazley. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414114711	Thank you. After all, we are cooperating with Bill L 161 and motion for a resolution B 79. I would first like to make a few comments on the draft law. The aim of the government bill is to improve road safety and to improve the freedom of movement and mobility of young people. The bill suggests that we give young people the opportunity to ride on mopeds when they reach the age of 15. And that is a change compared to today, when you have to be 16 years old. By the way, it is virtually the only place in Europe that is so. In addition, the bill provides for us to set up an experimental system, so that when you are 17 years old, you can obtain a driving licence in a perfectly normal way. However, if you want to drive the car, the condition is that you become 18 years old, that there should be a defined experienced driver in the car. The statistics speak their clear language. It is most dangerous to be a young driver, especially in the first year when the young person is going out safely in traffic with an entirely new means of transport. In addition, there may be a certain chastity among young men in particular. It's got something to do with hormones and stuff like that. There's gas in the blood, and some people are tempted to press the gas a little too hard. The result is often a high speed, hasty speed, where you overestimate your own and the car's abilities, and too short a distance from the front. Of course, there is a difference between young drivers. You don't have to cut everyone over one comb. Many young drivers are extremely responsible and drive cautiously and sensibly, but there is also a small horde of true speed devils who, with contempt for death, spread terror on streets and roads. The last group must, of course, be hard-pressed every time they stick their noses out. Unfortunately, some of them are also out of educational reach, but it is of course a task for the police to get hold of these speed devils. But what should we do in general to reduce the number of serious accidents caused by young and inexperienced drivers? And there we have reached a point where we need to go further. There we in the Left are going to go to Germany, where positive experience has been shown with a system whereby young people are allowed to obtain a driving licence at 17 years of age in a perfectly normal manner. The condition for driving the car in the first year is that you are accompanied by an experienced driver. And when it has such a positive effect you have actually managed to reduce the number of serious accidents in Germany among young drivers by more than 20%. Because of this, it's really common sense. Because even if you never have such a good training, driving training with driving instructor we have some of the world's best driving instructors, we have one of the world's best driving training courses. After all, not all the traffic situations you can get through on the driving lessons you have. Therefore, it is quite logical that it will have a positive effect that you have a year's time when you drive a car with an experienced driver next to you, who can draw from his experience to the inexperienced in the different situations of traffic. Some people have misunderstood this proposal, like that now we're replacing a good driving training with this system, where it's a parent or someone else who sits in the car and has to learn from it. No, you can't confuse this with the Swedish practice car. In this it is absolutely imperative that you first complete a thorough driving training according to all the rules of art and have to pass the driving test, and then this is a supplement that is so valuable. We have seen evidence of this, among other things. Germany. There are a number of consultation responses which express some concern about this, among others. with regard to the escort. Some people are calling for a so-called approval system for the person who is to sit next to the inexperienced driver and draw lessons from his experience. We do not want that from the Left. It would be an incredible bureaucracy that would have to be built if, like, you had to send an application and approve and perhaps even on some courses and certified and all sorts of other things. We don't need that. We do not need more bureaucracy in Denmark. Instead, with this bill, we are making clear demands on the person sitting next to us. It is, for example, that you must be at least 30 years old, so there is a certain maturity in the person; that you must have a driving licence and the right to drive for at least 10 years; and that you must not have been denied the right to drive. And then, of course, you have to be sober when you're sitting next to the driver. It's not like this scheme can be used for the young 17-year-old to come down to the inn and pick up the father and drive the father home, and then it's okay. This is not the case here. The person next door must, of course, be at his right mind and sober, so that one can just draw from his experience. We believe that this will have a positive effect on our accident statistics among young people, and I look forward to the launch of this 3-year experimental scheme. Where the first was to improve road safety among young people, the moped part is primarily aimed at strengthening the mobility of young people without compromising road safety. And it is quite clear that this will be a significant strengthening especially in our rural areas. When you get a little outside of Copenhagen, there are therefore farther between the houses, and there are a lot of young people who benefit from the increased mobility that means that you can acquire a moped at the age of 15. There is something very wrong with being 16 years old in Denmark to drive a tiny moped that drives 30 km/h and looks overtaken by cyclists who come with both 40 and 50 km/h. We will get this right here. We are strengthening the mobility of young people, but we are doing it in a way that does not jeopardise road safety. Because here in Denmark we have just introduced clear requirements for education before we release people with a moped certificate or moped licence. We have some clear sanctions. If you step next to it and make illegals, it's usually when you're doing illegals, it goes wrong, then the hammer falls. There are clear sanctions, and that is why we are very confident that we have taken account of the safety of traffic here, while at the same time giving young people this increased mobility, which is so important. There's also some Denmark in balance in this. This will benefit rural areas. All other things being equal, it will make it more attractive to live in rural areas, that young people will have better opportunities to come to sports events and everything else, even if they live 15 km away from the sports hall. So there is also Denmark in balance in this, but, as I said, we are implementing it without compromising road safety. I think a lot of people look forward to that. I remember myself that day in 1979, correction, it was not 1979, it was actually in 1976 when I drove to Voldby and bought myself a new Puchknavert and drove home with pride. There was no requirement for any education at all. I just bought a moped, and then I drove. But I was happy, because it suddenly gave me a completely different range of action. I could drive to the beach in Fjellerup and everything else if I wanted to. And I can feel that feeling... more young people between the ages of 15 and 16. I think this is gonna be a great success. Then there is B 79, the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, which wants the government to put forward a bill that allows 16-year-olds to obtain driving licences for large mopeds, including what we call moped 45, as well as small motorcycle, also called category A1. I have great sympathy for this proposal. I also think I can have some recognition pleasure when I read this proposal, and one might then ask why the government has not just put this forward here in this parliamentary year. Because there's a lot of sense in this proposal. This, in turn, helps to increase the mobility of young people. When you are 16 years old, you come in line with most of Europe in terms of being able to get around better, and you have increased your mobility. There is also a lot of sense in us having such a step-by-step approach to motorized vehicles, starting with small mopeds when you are 15, continuing with the larger moped and small motorcycle when you are 16, and now here driving licences, from you are 17, etc. I believe that the step-by-step approach is to strengthen road safety. However, I must also acknowledge that the government is right when it is concerned about some security aspects of what needs to be drilled. That doesn't mean we won't go any further this way. This means that there are some security aspects that we must have looked at before a legislative proposal can be tabled. Because it is now the case that when you make a motion for a resolution, you cannot go into detail for good reasons; you do not have a huge set of officials behind you who can go down and analyse things. So when you put forward a bill as a government, things have to be straightened out in the smallest detail, and that is the difference between the two. That is why we think it is quite reasonable that the government is now proposing to look over the summer at the security aspects that could be involved in this. It could, for example, be done. Let us be clear about whether it is right to allow 16-year-olds, for example. to drive 120-130 km/h. On a freeway. It might be that somebody has to say limitation in there, and there are other things you need to look at in this. So we think that is quite reasonable. But, as I said, I would like to congratulate the authors of the motion for a resolution. It is a good proposal, the intention is very good, and that is why we must continue to work on it. I would urge that, after a good discussion in committee, we land B 79 with a report in which we jointly agree on how to proceed with this good proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414115756	There is a brief comment. Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414115800	The rapporteur is very concerned about mobility. I think it is extremely important that, on the other hand, road safety should be reduced against increased mobility, because no matter how much the rapporteur says that this is road safety and that there are no problems with road safety, the rapporteur speaks out against better knowledge. All the consultation answers that have come, with the exception of that from the Danish Villages Association, strongly warns against this. The rapporteur is, of course, happy and always referring to foreign experience here in connection with driving licences for 17-year-olds, referred to Germany. But what about the experience of Sweden and Austria, not least in reducing the age limit to 15 years in order to be able to drive mopeds? Experience has shown clearly that it means reduced road safety, that it means a serious increase in the number of accidents involving casualties and deaths. Doesn't that make an impression at all? And isn't this all of a sudden an experience from abroad that we should include?
ParlaMint-DK_20160414115917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414115920	Thank you for the good question, which I would have expected from Mr. Henning Hyllested's side. It is clear that we have to deal with what is happening abroad, but there is the fact that a few years ago the demands for training for moped drivers were tightened up. We did so here in the Folketing, and there are therefore some rather harsh sanctions where the hammer falls hard if you commit illegal acts. The fact is that most accidents happen when people commit illegal activities when they drive at 80 km/h. or more on a drilled moped that wasn't built for it at all, or when they're running roaring drunk on an old Puch Maxi with an Arla milk box on the luggage carrier, there's also accidents. So when you go in and read the statistics, you can see that there are a lot of accidents to be attributed to that kind of thing. Let's say we're running a million. km of moped in Denmark if it rises to 2 million. km, because more people have the opportunity to choose to drive on mopeds, everything else is just a little more risky for more accidents. However, I have confidence in the general improvement in road safety here in Denmark. Our whole set of rules and the spirit of it and our education make me very confident in reducing the age limit to 15 years, just as it is in the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414120036	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414120039	I am very pleased with the last remarks made by Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen comes along because the hops in this are among other things that it is a whole vintage of 15-year-olds who are exposed to the risk of driving in traffic. So it is quite true that everything else will, of course, be more injured, in that there is an entire vintage which now has to run, and they will of course be affected at least to the same extent as the 16-year-olds, but probably also more. That is what many of the consultation answers are all about: there will now be a vintage which is more immature and which will have access to mopeds. That is being pointed out. It is therefore to be expected that not only a whole year more will be exposed to accidents and therefore contribute negatively to accident statistics, but that there will probably be more accidents in that year. That's what the hearings say quite unanimously.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414120139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414120143	They are immature, says Mr. Henning Hylllested. No one has yet explained to me why Danish young people should be more immature than young people in the rest of Europe. Then you should also be careful not to bully those doomsday trombones in this regard, for you cannot compare them at all with the accident figures of the 1970s. This is a completely different situation. As I said, when I started running mopeds, there were no rules at all about taking any education. I didn't even have to wear a crash helmet. There we have quite different tough rules today, and there will be an education. I think the advantage is that, by lowering the age limit to 15 years, we get some young people into the fold who get an education before they move onto a moped. So I think that we could actually be pleasantly surprised about road safety too, and at least there are now a great many young people who are strengthening their mobility, and that would be a very good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414120232	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. I shall postpone the sitting until 1 p.m. When we resume the sitting, Mr President, the first rapporteur to speak. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414130114	The sitting is resumed. The next rapporteur for paragraph 6 and paragraph 7 is Mr. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414130133	Thank you. These proposals concern both the legislative proposal and the motion for a resolution. They have been expected, if I may say so. There is nothing new in them, they have been put forward in different forms in the past. There are some resolutions from earlier, from 2012 and 2013, on the issue of driving licences for 17-year-olds and on reducing the age limit from 16 to 15 years for driving on small mopeds. Indeed, we were in the situation where a legislative proposal, L 137, was tabled and adopted back in 2011. Fortunately, it was lifted again because of the change of government when the S-R-SF government came in and also in this question was supported by Enhedslisten. So the proposals are back. The argument is also the same, and there is a lot going on that this will improve road safety and increase mobility. With regard to the reduction of the age limit for driving small mopeds, it can only be said that the government, with support parties, is throwing itself into it, if I may say so, with a, indeed, literally amazing contempt for death. Moped driving is the most dangerous mode of transport at all, and 15-year-olds are, I would say, more immature than 16-year-olds, just as 16-year-olds on some scale are also more immature than 17-year-olds. It is also quite significant that the consultation answers that have been received from those who could almost be called the overall expertise in this area are, of course, strongly warning against this part of the bill. The conclusion is clear enough for everyone that it will lead to more people killed and injured. In this connection, reference is also made to the experience gained from Sweden and Austria, but also earlier from Denmark, of course, in other circumstances, but nevertheless, since in 1980 the age limit was raised from 15 to 16 years, there was a significant reduction in the risk of accidents for the 15-year-olds, and a five-fold increase in the number of killed and injured moped drivers was observed when the age was reduced to 15 years. In other words, arguing with increased mobility can be said to be a bit bizarre, or what to call it, when, in a previous constellation with the current government itself, you have contributed to the depopulation of our outermost regions, where this is primarily an argument. After all, the 00s were marked by strong centralisation reforms which really boosted the development of migration from country to city. At the same time, we have noted that public transport, which should otherwise be taken over here, has deteriorated to a large extent, not to say de facto, so that today there are large parts of our country, our outlying areas, where there is simply no public transport of importance. It must also be pointed out that we actually placed a pool in our conciliation circle for better and cheaper public transport, in other words in support of public transport in peripheral areas, in order to re-establish public transport in some of the places where it is currently non-existent. It also happened in order to look at whether it could not be done in a different way than just driving around with large buses, i.e. that you liked to call for a more flexible offer and there have also been very good offers about it from around. With regard to driving licences for 17-year-olds during a three-year trial period, I think it is noted that even in those who are actually positive, it is not without great reservations. I refer in particular to the Council on Safe Transport, which points out precisely that there is no type of approval for adult escorts in the accompanying system which is to be set up. There is only a requirement that you should be 30 years old, that you have had a driving licence for 10 years and that you have not had any conditional or unconditional disqualifications of the driving licence for 10 years. There are also no additional requirements, for example. the age of 17 must be subject to the same percentage limit as all others; nor does the imposition of stricter penalties apply to the imposition of a fine, and that is the case. But I have already asked in my questions, I would almost say rhetorical: what if you have two clips in your driving licence in the last year? Is one really suitable to be a companion for a 17-year-old? In my opinion, however, it has been proved that there is no sensible attitude towards driving, because they will typically be given for good speed overruns. I think that this is a very good example of the fact that the system does not really work out if we do not make demands on those who are going to be escorts. I also think that there is an interesting consultation contribution from the Transport Research Group at Aalborg University, because they have actually been looking at the arrangements, as they are designed in a number of different countries. The description they have there clearly shows that in many places there is some kind of step-by-step acquisition of driving licences; but it is also clear that a number of requirements are actually being made, in some countries too, quite strict requirements for obtaining a driving licence. In fact, the conclusion reached by Aalborg University ends up recommending that the scheme should cover all up to 24 years who can acquire driving licences step by step, and of course along the way conditional on extended rights and over a limited period of time. Actually, I think that's really interesting. I think so too, because Enhedslisten has for so many years also said from this platform that we think it can be good with practice driving. It can never be a bad thing that, in addition to the good driving training we provide new drivers, we could also combine it or supplement it with an accompanying scheme. There we have just said: but why not just make it possible from the 18th year to obtain a driving licence? There I actually think that the recommendation from Aalborg University does not go entirely the same, but still can be taken as an income for such a view. So, overall, I would say that we should not have more and younger drivers on the roads, and we should not have that for road safety reasons. And I do not think that we should get more young people used to moving around in this country by car and by driving on the contrary. It is, of course, a question of offering a different form of transport in that case; it must of course be public transport; it must be possible to ride a bike, also safely so that there must be bike paths etc. So we're against the government bill. With regard to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, we are also opposed to this. This is probably not surprising after hearing many of the arguments I have just put forward here in relation to the draft law. Despite all the incantations in the comments on the motion for a resolution on road safety, we have no doubt that unleashing 16-year-olds, for example, will have negative consequences for road safety. small motorcycles that can drive, yes, at least about 100 km/h. With regard to large mopeds, the main argument is that the young people already tune the mopeds and drill them and pick them and what else you can find to do with a moped. I do not think that 16 to 17-year-olds should be allowed to drive large mopeds, and then they can start driving 45 km/h, prevent them from picking, drilling and tune, etc. etc., so they can drive the 80 km/h that's the target. This is actually a completely different discussion. It is, in my opinion, about police control and resources. It is also strange that the Danish People's Party in particular will argue with the EU in this regard. This is, of course, the EU's third directive on driving licences and EU rules, and I also think it is a problem that other Member States' rules on driving licences can apply to us, thereby undermining our own legislation. But here I think that is why I am a little surprised by the Danish People's Party that it is the European Union that is the problem. In fact, I think it is fine, especially in this area, that Denmark should have its own rules, and we can certainly show good results in the whole area of road safety. However, when the EU fits into the DF agenda, the critical glasses are obviously taken off. Both the bill and the resolution are part of the offensive which the right and others have been going on for a very long time and which is about higher speeds compared to both selected vehicles and roads and reduced age limits for various driving licences. It is a clash with the developments that have been going on for many years in Denmark and which have resulted in fewer accidents, fewer deaths, fewer injuries. Let me remind you that Denmark is actually in the top five when it comes to road safety, and I think that is something that we are in the process of putting at risk. It is as if you want to collect a bonus, in this case a negative bonus, for the excellent road safety work that has been carried out over many years. I believe that the whole of the offensive being carried out here will be reflected in the accident statistics in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414131240	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414131245	Thank you. It is more or less well known that Enhedslisten has some kind of aversion against motorized vehicles. In any case, I have seen the debates we have had in recent years. While I acknowledge that two highly estimated members of Enhedslisten's parliamentary group are actually in possession of a good old-fashioned Danish Nimbus Motorcycle and it serves them to honor • I still sense a certain resistance, now too two-wheeled. Therefore, first of all, I should like to ask Mr. Henning Hyllested: Does Enhedslisten really mean that it is more dangerous to drive on a small moped that can drive 30 km/h than it is to roam off on a slender bike that comes with a 40-50 km/h.? That was the first question. The second question: is it not an expression of paternalism towards our young people when Enhedslisten like to prevent them from getting some mobility and forcing them into some systems, some public transport which, in fact, does not really exist in many rural areas, i.e. when you come outside the major cities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160414131348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414131349	The unit list has no aversion against motorized vehicles of any kind. I have many times, among other things. from this platform and in other contexts boasted by my little Kia Picanto, whom I and perhaps especially the wife drive around in. And it is true that there are also members of Enhedslisten's parliamentary group who are driving around on a motorcycle, among other things. The President-in-Office of the Council, sitting next to him, has an old Nimbus. In fact, I believe that Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen has a point when we talk e-bikes, and I am quite sure that at some point we are going to do something about it, to make some demands in one way or another. I do not think that is the case now. With regard to electric bicycles, which have, in particular, become a hit among a little older people, I really think we have the problem. I don't have the recipe for what we're doing. I would also like to be a little reluctant to do too much. After all, it is a bicycle. I guess you have a little bit more control over it. In fact, however, there are an increasing number of accidents involving electric bicycles. So there is certainly a point there, but it cannot be taken as income for us then to let go in relation to driving on, for example. Moped. And I do not think this is a matter of paternalism in terms of creating mobility. On the contrary, it is a question of taking into account and trying to look at young people so that no more than, I would almost say very necessary, it is a bad expression in this context • gets hurt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414131521	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414131523	Now I am not going to impose restrictions on cyclists, even in relation to electric bicycles, but it was more the comparison with the small moped and the fast bikes. But it seems that Mr. Henning Hyllested is moving too little outside the major cities, because if we really had to meet the needs of young people with public transport, which is being set up, then it is no use thinking that we are in a world of S-trains, metros, light rails and buses in all directions, because that is not the reality when we get into the province. And imagines Mr. Henning Hyllested that it would be possible to meet the transport needs of young people by means of public transport? I think it would be expensive if we had to have bus routes crossed and crossed at virtually all times of the day. Is this even a realistic scenario? 'Cause it sounds like that's what's Enhedslisten's alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414131611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414131612	No, it's not a realistic alternative, but it's because sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen has a very, very traditional thinking and perception of what public transport is. In my rapporteur's speech, I referred to the fact that, in the better and cheaper public transport networks, we have set aside a pool to support public transport in the outermost regions. And that pool is very much set aside so that there can also be experiments so that we can get some flexible offers. Because I totally agree that the thing about riding around with large buses that run empty on most of the trips, of course, doesn't work, but it's not necessarily public traffic today, in my opinion. Collective traffic is many other things. There is something really exciting going on in North Jutland, where you try to immerse all modes of transport, including taxi and car parts, bicycles and everything, and make it work in a whole, and I expect a lot of it. I believe that this is the way we should be going, but we must also be prepared to support this with money, as we have done with better and cheaper public transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414131710	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. There are no more brief comments. That is why we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mr President. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414131720	Thank you. It is, after all, a little special to co-examine the draft law from the government, which the government is in favour of, and then the motion for a resolution. I don't know who made that up, but I'm sure some people do. At least I think there is reason to separate them. The government's proposal, which has been prepared and worked through, is therefore the bill that talks about driving licences for 17-year-olds during a trial period and that young people should be able to drive mopeds from 15 years of age rather than from 16 years of age. It is then a proposal which the government has put forward and which is then well worked out. We support this, and it is actually very good to say about it. The second is, of course, just a motion for a resolution which will actually require the government to come up with a well-worked proposal on that part of what then deals with the issue of large moped and small motorcycle. That is why it is a confusion of two things, which the Minister's remarks may also have been marked by, but that is the way it is. Let me first say something about driving licences for 17-year-olds during a trial period with the accompanying requirements for accompanying them. This is an experimental scheme, and there is really good reason to make attempts in those areas, because we all know very well that the fact that young people who get a driving licence are then thrown into traffic on their own has meant that, for example, insurance companies charge very large premiums because accident statistics speak their own language. It is inattentiveness or less knowledge and less experience, etc., that makes you overconfident or have to show yourself a little to your peers, show how bold and how talented you are now and then go wrong. There it will therefore be absolutely fantastic and it shows attempts from abroad also that you can only drive for the first time after you have completed a driving training and passed a driving test and got a driving licence if you are accompanied by someone sitting next to you who will not be sitting in the car and watching you behave foolishly when the person is a passenger himself. That is why it is a great lesson for a young driver to try to be rebuked by someone who is then involved and who is not just the driving instructor you have just had in the time it has been going on. That is why it is a very good attempt which I think can also lead to young people receiving driving licences being able to obtain insurance at a more normal price level than what we have seen so far, in the long term, when you see the results of this. So this is a very good proposal, which is actually responsible and which I believe in the long term will increase road safety and thus reduce the number of accidents. It is a very good and much needed exercise, so let us now get it done as an attempt and see what happens. So let's see if young people can drive mopeds from 15 years of age. Yes, you can then say that if you go to some parts of the country, you know that some people do it anyway, but at least it is perfectly justifiable to let young people test it with a moped from the age of 15. We may also have grown up in the past. At least we often talk about young people being young and needing transport to educational institutions. And even if Mr. Henning Hyllested made it sound as if the rural areas were totally depopulated, I would say that some are still being born out there, and last, I was there and I live there in such a way there were also young people who were going to educational institutions in need of transport. That is why it is an essential help that it can be done. So by 15 years, I think I'm completely responsible. It was then in the bill that the government has worked through. Then it was the case that, in this context, the government did not get the issue of large and small mopeds and small motorcycle, and that is why it lies in a motion for a resolution. That's why it's kind of a shame. But, of course, I welcome the fact that the Minister would like to take a positive view of this and that it might be possible to agree on a report in committee so that we can get momentum in that proposal too. But perhaps it would have been a good thing if the government had been able to agree to the proposal, because then we would have been sure that there would be momentum and that it would be adopted when it came as a proposal from the government and from the Minister's hand, even though there were relatively friendly comments from the Minister on a proposal which was then up here and should actually be against or certainly not be able to endorse. A friendly minister is always nice. We hope, then, that the motion for a resolution of which we are co-sponsors will also be able to take advantage, as a committee will hopefully be able to draw up a positive report and the Minister will be kind enough to allow the system to work through it so that we can achieve exactly what we would otherwise have been able to achieve here, namely that one day the government will actually come up with a proposal containing these elements. We believe that this is just as responsible as the legislative proposal that has been tabled. So, of course, we are behind the motion for a resolution that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414132303	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414132306	Thank you. It's interesting to hear Mr. Liberal Alliance. Leif Mikkelsen, who is talking about progress and we need to get it going and hope that the motion for a resolution will come through soon, but very little is heard about the concern that can be about road safety. I think it is striking if we take the legislative proposal, which is also part of the debate today, namely the part about mopeds, that the consultation answers that are there are, the mostly negative in relation to this. Those who work professionally with it say that this is simply irresponsible, it is dangerous, there is bad experience with it. If we take the resolution itself, many people have been out saying in the media: this is simply too dangerous; we would like to warn against that. Are you completely blind and deaf to the very violent criticism that this proposal has received? Don't make it any impression that those who work professionally with road safety say: Be careful, this is actually quite dangerous!
ParlaMint-DK_20160414132404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414132405	We are always happy to listen to those who saw it in this context, at least in Mr Kellett-Bowman's report. Rasmus Prehn's terminology is expert. Now it might also be that you should look at it in such a way that this is a political responsibility and that the true experts may also be those who have tried to drive both mopeds and cars, as we have done in this way many of us here have done. And we are in the situation of improving road safety on many fronts. We are doing this by separating vulnerable road users, mopeds, bicycles, etc., and by improving traffic conditions, by improving road conditions, and that is why we are delighted that the number of serious road accidents, i.e. road accidents with deaths, is decreasing in Denmark. This will also happen when we ensure that all road users get calmly into traffic by giving them the opportunity to practice, so that this happens step by step, instead of suddenly being thrown into it one day. That is why these proposals actually represent a sense of responsibility and responsibility. I think if you ask experts, they almost have to answer like this. And that is why it is a political responsibility to look at what the real world is. The development we have set in motion in recent years of investment in our infrastructure should, of course, lead to a step being taken in this area too, which is why we believe it is actually fully responsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414132524	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414132525	One sees the reasoning of the Liberal Alliance as being that when the accident statistics finally go down, it is just about getting the throttle down, and then we have to get it going, and now we have to have something changed so that we can have some accidents again. Well, you'd be surprised to hear that. Something else is that all this mobility is also due to the fact that, unfortunately, there has been a decline in public transport, and I understand that the Liberal Alliance has said on several occasions that it is just a bad idea to spend money on public transport. Is Mr. Mr Leif Mikkelsen is not worried that if you save public transport, you will force even more young people into dangerous traffic, where they can then be the victims of major accidents?
ParlaMint-DK_20160414132607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414132608	Now the reality is that there are a number of people living in areas where there is no possibility of public transport. This is the reality of today's Denmark, and it is a development that has taken place under social democratic-led governments and under bourgeois governments where migration has taken place from country to city. We all know about the empty buses that have been driving around in rural areas, and I guess none of us are going to model that, and that is why it is not happening. That is why there are a number of people who do not have that means of transport, and we must guarantee them proper opportunities, and so there are many people who need training. So what I have to say is that those who do not want to do this have no help whatsoever and no qualified command for those people. Because that is not what we can see from the policy pursued by the Socialists that there will be public transport for those people as an opportunity. It's the real world. I mean, we shouldn't be far back until the Social Democrats had government responsibility, and that didn't happen either. It's exactly the same now, and that's why it's just talk when you say it's a solution. It's not a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414132713	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Leif Mikkelsen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nikolai Amstrup of the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414132720	Thank you very much, President. The two proposals we are discussing today have been meticulously examined by my fellow rapporteurs. I would like to congratulate Mr. Rasmus Prehn for a very well worked paper, with which we are very, very much in agreement in the alternative. First of all, it is important for us to point out that we think it is a bad idea to mix things into legislative proposals that do not have a real connection, and I know that it has been said and written that the context of this is to increase the mobility of young people. We would like to call on you, as has happened on the other side, to split this bill so that you can work together in committee to find a broad consensus on the part of the proposal which is about an experimental system of driving licences for 17-year-olds driving with an experienced companion. Then we can have it dealt with properly in committee, as Mr. Henning Hyllested also pointed out, and looked at whether there should be other requirements and what lessons we should draw from other countries for such a bill. When it comes to both the second part of the legislative proposal and the two proposals contained in the motion for a resolution, it comes as no surprise that, in the alternative, we do not think that this is the right way to go. There has been a lot of talk about the safety of this, and we can discuss that too. We believe that there is both a clear link between the type of vehicle, in this case among others. the small moped, which is known to be one of the most dangerous means of transport, and accident risk and also age. But I would also like to focus on what kind of signal is in this. It has been pointed out that the background to both the legislative proposal and the resolution is to increase the mobility of young people. We think this in itself is a very, very good idea, but we would probably have preferred to see other types of mobility supported for young people. We would like further support for the bicycle culture in Denmark, and we would like further support and innovation of the public transport system. However, when we instead support individual motor traffic, the signal that we are sending as a Parliament and as a country is that we want to go in a different direction with a higher CO2 that is not the direction the alternative wants to go in, and we cannot support any of the proposals as it stands right now, but we would very much like to look at cooperation on one part of L 161 on driving licences for 17-year-olds.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414133046	Thank you. We thank Nikolaj Amstrup. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414133105	Of course, progress in traffic and mobility for the whole population is important. However, I think it is even more important that we get there alive and that we get there in full. So I have to say that the 1970s, when you had a lower age limit for moped driving, is a decade that has set some scary tracks. Lots of young people were seriously injured. So instead of putting forward a proposal that we should return to such an untenable situation, I think we could actually expect an answer as to why such expensive experiences would be ignored, when it was so obvious that it was a danger to young people driving mopeds, first and foremost, but also to the rest of the road users. On the other hand, we in the SF find that part of the government's proposal to give driving licences to 17-year-olds is exciting. It is something that has been dealt with before, and in the past SF has considered a lot where we should put the emphasis on it. We choose to look at the proposal now before us as an exciting proposal and as one that we think should be given a chance. I think we should try to get to grips with what is being said here: that 17-year-olds with a responsible partner can gain their experience in traffic. We do not see this as a proposal specifically designed to support mobility or accessibility, but we see it as a new attempt to make road safety by slowly getting rid of them and getting their daily lives in traffic. We are therefore very surprised, therefore, why in the world it is mixed up with a completely different proposal for a moped driving licence, which we, on the other hand, are one hundred percent against. I must therefore say that I think that the government should take up and divide up the bill, so that an agreement can be drawn up here which includes the vast majority of parties, I can hear about a whole new move in Denmark precisely about driving licences for 17-year-olds, and then, on the other hand, keep the other out. Unfortunately, I have to conclude that if it is put together, we will be opposed to the overall legislative proposal. But here is a request that we get it split up, so we have the opportunity to participate in something completely new with regard to driving licences in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414133352	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. There are no brief comments and we will now take the next rapporteur. It's a little atypical, sir. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414133404	Thank you. In the Radical Left we also find it interesting to try to make an attempt to give 17-year-olds the opportunity to drive accompanied by someone with 10 years of experience as a driver. We have good experience with this in other countries, and we think it might be interesting to try to see if we could also have some good experiences here in Denmark. In other countries it has been shown that practicing before you get a driving licence, so to speak, makes you actually a better driver when you're about to drive alone. This increases road safety, and it is interesting to have experiments carried out in Denmark to see if we can get the same effects. That is why we support that part of the government's bill. Then we're also here and this comes as no surprise, because the SR government changed the old VK government's law on the opponents of giving 15-year-olds the opportunity to run on mopeds, and we are also opposed to the resolution that gives 16-year-olds the opportunity to drive on what is called small motorcycles. It is the case that both mopeds and motorcycles are among the most dangerous modes of transport we have, because by their very nature they are not as protected as they are, for example. is in a car, since there's nothing around you when you're riding a motorcycle or moped. Therefore, we cannot support allowing younger, inexperienced groups to drive more on mopeds and small motorcycles. That is why we are also calling on the government to share the bill so that we in the Radical Left can vote in favour of this attempt to give a driving licence to 17-year-olds, but at the same time can have the opportunity to vote against the part that is about allowing 15-year-olds to drive on mopeds. And then we are voting against the resolution by the Conservatives, Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party on 16-year-olds and small motorcycles.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414133608	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. There are no brief comments. Then we go back to the order, and that's Mr. Knox. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414133615	Thank you. It will come as no surprise that Conservatives support the resolution, and we also support the draft law. We think that these things are connected, namely that one gets such a gradual entrance to driving on mopeds and motorbikes respectively. You start with the little ones when you're 15 years old. Then you can get someone a little bigger when you're 16 years old. You can get one that is even bigger when you are 18 years old, and then at 20 or 24 years old you can get the big bike. It is actually quite fine that this is a step-by-step approach and that you get the right to drive more and more as you get a little older and gain more control over your motor skills and more driving experience. There are two approaches to this overall. Some people think that in order to be safe, it is best to have a ban, and that is just like the starting point: if you are unsure, you better ban it. But you can also have the other approach to it, and I do, namely that bans are something we should only have if there is a reason for doing so. And we do not believe that there is any reason here why we should have a ban. If in many other countries, in fact most other European countries, there are rules such as those we are now proposing, we believe that Danish young people must also be able to deal with them. In fact, there is one, I think, quite convincing argument that allowing young people to drive as 17-year-olds, which is part of the bill, along with an older, more experienced driver, means that they are getting better drivers and that, overall, we have fewer accidents because they simply drive better, even when they are 18 years old and can therefore drive on their own. I also think it makes sense to say that if you get a gradual introduction into the traffic, where you do not start to get loose with a whole lot of horsepower, but start with something a little less and get used to being traffic-like, you will probably also be a better driver in the long term. Then we should remember that there is actually a purpose in traffic. It is that you can get around easily, and that in itself is a win. So we must remember that when we impose a ban on a particular type of traffic, it has the cost of preventing people from making their everyday life work. Therefore, as I said again, we have the approach to it that if there are no good reasons against it, people should be allowed to transport themselves in the way they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414133854	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. There are no brief comments. Then the trip has come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley. Kim Christiansen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414133912	Thank you. I will start with L 161, the proposal to allow 17-year-olds to acquire a driving licence and have an adult person next to them for the first year. We in the Danish People's Party think this is a very good proposal, and we think it is because there are very good experiences with it in Germany. And a lot of accidents among young people happen, the first year they have a driving licence. So here we have an opportunity to get an adult next door to take away the worst worlds, because you are not an experienced and trained driver just because you have taken a driving licence with 16 hours behind you. This I think can keep away the worst unodes that many young drivers may adopt for the first year they have a driver's license. So, of course, we fully support that bill. Then there's the part about the 15-year-olds. We have adopted this earlier here, and then there came a red government which then rolled it backwards they kept so well all the good measures we had also added, about increased education and so on. etc. You thought that was a good idea. But we want to give 15-year-olds the opportunity to have that mobility. I am like several others of a vintage, where I had the opportunity to buy a moped when I was 15 years old, and the freedom it gave was absolutely fantastic I lived in the country. So I think we should give the young people that opportunity. We must have confidence in the young people. You can become a parent at the age of 15, and if it was for other parties in here, there was probably also free hash for 15-year-olds and many other things, but you will not allow them to drive on a moped, which is hardly faster than the racing bikes that many of them drive around on. That is completely incomprehensible to me. But we also support that part of the proposal. On the other hand, we are also open to sharing the bill. We ourselves have asked for this in the past in other contexts, and I think we should always give each other that opportunity. Then I have one big wish for it, and that is: Why wait until January 1, 2017 to give this opportunity to young people, since there is a majority to offer them that? So I would urge the Minister to perhaps look at a slightly faster date of entry into force. It could be here over the summer, so that the young people could get out and get some of the late summer on their magnificent moped tours. So we support warmly L 161. Of course, we also support the resolution on which we ourselves have co-sponsored it. And I was very pleased to see that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov's party had moved slightly in this area compared to the latter, and could be co-sponsors of it. I would like to thank Conservatives for that. My disappointment was just as great, of course, when I found out that it can change people a little when they come into government. It doesn't change the fact that I have heard the positive statements from both Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen and from the Minister. And despite my poor schooling, I can see that there is no majority for it without the Left, and that is why we will probably also accept the extended hand and try to talk us into: what can we do further to dig into it in relation to them, so that the Left too can feel safe in relation to this proposal? I heard a lot of good arguments for mobility and road safety. That's what we pay tribute to in terms of giving the young people this soft opportunity, where something is constantly being built on and not like today, when you drive 30 km/h., and when you are 18 years old, you borrow Dad's BMW, and then you suddenly have 200 horsepowers available. We believe that it is very good to start at the age of 15 and then build on and get used to it and give them increased responsibility all the time, but also increased education and also increased sanctions, we should not forget that. So we hope that we will get this country here so that we can put forward a final legislative proposal in the autumn, in which we also take into account the 16-year-olds so that they can become a little more mobile than they are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414134351	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. There's a false statement here that it's sir. Jakob Silverhøj, who is going on the platform, but I assume it's Mr. Henning Hyllested, who wishes to speak. At least he must be allowed to have it if he wants it. Here you go. Now we have to make the technique work. I'm suggesting we take Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge first. Here we go, sir. Henning Hylllested on when he gets in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414134419	I would like to ask Mr. Kim Christiansen on what the forecasts are for the development of accidents if these age limits for mopeds are reduced. So, if you look back at what it looked like in the past, is there something against the fact that it is not the same pattern that you will see again, that is, a sharp increase in the number of injured people?
ParlaMint-DK_20160414134445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414134446	Well, basically, I don't know anything about that any more than Mr. Karsten Hønge does. However, I have noted that in the debate that has taken place today there are a great many prophets of doom and many fortune-tellers who just know exactly how this is going to end. The last time you had trials with 15-year-olds, it turned out that there were more accidents. Then I would say that the mopeds that could be acquired at that time were, after all, in a completely different safety category from the ones we have today. It is clear that if there are more users of something, the risk of accidents is also increasing, but in relation to the number, I do not believe that this will cause more accidents among young people. It is not the young people who are over-represented in moped accidents, it is actually older adult men.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414134541	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414134543	But what is to be said against the fact that we would see the same pattern as we saw from 1971 to 1980, namely that many more young people were injured? Because even though the mopeds today have a better safety standard, it does not alter the fact that it is the combination of youth and speed that causes accidents. So still away: Is there anything that speaks for it to be different from the pattern we have already seen in the 1970s? And in that sense, it's not just about looking forward, but just about looking back on what we've had. The second is: are there among the people who work with it any advocates of lowering the age limit? As far as I can understand, only moped manufacturers and producers of prosthetic prostheses for arms and legs can be in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414134627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414134628	First of all, there might well be the argument that at the time when I acquired moped at 15 years old, all you had to have was an insurance certificate. There was no education. You drove up to the local moped dealer and got a moped there, and then you drove up and got an insurance certificate and you did so after you got the moped. The difference is that today a much, much higher degree of education is incorporated into the law. And I can't help saying that, but I think that young people have become a little smarter through general information. So I'm not so worried about this. But there is at least a significant difference in terms of the education that young people are to receive today compared to the 1970s.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414134714	Then we have succeeded in making machine and man become one, and that means that we can give the floor to Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414134720	Thank you. I'm just sitting here spreading, and I'd be sitting at the wrong place. It is undoubtedly true that mopeds have become safer to some extent. We've got some better ways. Much has been done in the field of road safety. But I am just thinking: why put that development at risk by then going, in my opinion, the slightly opposite way by suddenly, for example. to lower the age limit for moped driving? As I said in my rapporteur's speech, I think it is to collect some sort of negative bonus: now it has become safer. We are making greater demands on education. That is absolutely right, but why not just stick to the good developments, which are also linked to the age limits that we are introducing? Why start to collect, as I say, a negative bonus because it is now going well in so many other areas? Then I would like to know whether the rapporteur agrees with me that motorcycles and, in particular, mopeds are the most dangerous vehicles we have on the roads at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414134834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414134836	Thanks to Henning Hyllested. I couldn't be fooled, even though Mr. Cole... Hyllested tried to get in like someone else. That's what I'm gonna say. I would say that riding a bike is more dangerous if that is what it is all about. A cyclist is also a vulnerable and soft trafficker, and it is even more dangerous to be a pedestrian at least in some places. Yeah, you sit unprotected on a moped. Of course it is a dangerous vehicle, and that is why we are very concerned about giving young people some training and explaining to them the consequences of what they are dealing with. You can choose to look at this as if we are now reducing the whole of road safety with the risk of many more injured and killed young people. We just have a different approach to it. By making this a smooth process, we believe that we will have a better traffic culture among young people as young as 15 years of age. Then we give them a little more responsibility, up to 18 years old. We put it instead, as I have said today, that they are driving 30 km/h. On a moped. So not many people do, because most of them tune it, and we would like to take part in this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414134948	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414134949	Is it not true that mopeds are proportionately over-represented in accident statistics? Sir. Kim Christiansen said in his reply to Mr. Karsten Hønge, that one did not really have any experience of this and that the Danish experiences came from many years ago. Ah, but there are also some experiences from e.g. Austria and Sweden, where things went very wrong when the younger vintages were released on mopeds.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414135025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414135026	I do not have statistics that say that this should be a huge tragedy in other countries with which we usually compare ourselves. Not because I usually go for us to implement all EU directives, on the contrary, but there are other parties in here who are usually very ready for implementation, and I am surprised that they then have so much opposition to this. But let's just leave it alone. It's an EU talk. I do not have the impression that there are bad experiences with this in other countries. But it is clear that increasing mobility and more vehicles into another category also increases the risk of accidents in the category in question, and so does the introduction of this for 15-year-olds, and the introduction of driving on a small motorcycle for 16-year-olds.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414135110	Thank you, sir. Kim Christiansen, and then we move on to the last in line, namely the Minister for Transport and Building.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414135120	Thank you for that, President. Now it is true that I also had the floor before lunch, and that is when I commented on the motion for a resolution. B 79, which we have also been around in this Chamber. I just want to repeat that I would like to help us sit around the table and try to talk to experts and some people who know something about this, to see if we can find some solution. In general terms, and this applies both to this proposal and to what I will be commenting on in a moment and expressing my thanks for receiving it: my own draft law, L 161 - I would just like to say that I think it is useful if we try together to take the situation as a starting point today. I do not think it is conducive if we are going to tell the public that we have made some decisions based on figures from the 1970s. I'm just saying that I don't think that's wise. There would probably also be a few listeners to such a talk. Because it must be about the new figures we have, and that is why we should perhaps try to spend time together instead and find out what we have basically of information that can help us in this direction, and also look at what other countries have done and so on. That has been said in relation to B 79, and I am still saying away, as I did in my opening remarks, that the government is positive about the idea. We should just look at different traffic conditions, including from the point of view of road safety, and then we will come back. With regard to L 161, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the positive reception given to the draft law here. I can see from a quick count that there is a majority in favour of the proposal, and of course I would like to thank those who have contributed to it. I would just like to reiterate that the aim of the bill is, of course, primarily to improve the safety of young drivers in traffic, and we do so by proposing the introduction of an authorisation into the Road Traffic Code to set up a three-year pilot scheme. We will therefore have a three-year pilot scheme which will allow 17-year-olds to obtain a driving licence, provided that they are accompanied by an adult experienced driver when driving until the age of 18. I can hear some people talking against the scheme. But I just want to say that I think it is sometimes a good idea to try to show the young people confidence and say: shouldn't we try to see if this trial scheme works? If the young generation listens, I understand if it gets a little tired. Because we always tell about when we were young and how and how it was, and then we think it can be good enough for you to understand it. And I don't think that's a perfectly reasonable way to do that. Actually, I think we have a very adult young generation. We have some who take responsibility and try to live up to things they even dream about in their lives, what we probably also have a hope that they do. So I just mean: let us be careful now that we are not going to cut everyone over a comb and like saying that this is what the generation looks like today. I would like to take part in a committee meeting in discussing some matters here. I am happy to do so and also in consultation and so on. However, I just have to remind you that in Germany they have had such a scheme for a number of years, and it has therefore been shown that young people driving with a companion in the first year have 22 per cent. fewer accidents than those released into traffic on their own after taking the driving licence. So, in relation to those who speak against it, I wonder a little why it is believed that such figures cannot be used. I simply have to say that I do not understand it. I hear many people who are positive, but there are also some who are negative about it. With the bill, we also want to improve the mobility of young road users outside the major cities, and we do so by reducing the age limit for driving licences to 15 years. Now it's not like we're doing nothing. It's like some people are saying that we've suddenly come to think of doing this. But it's not like that. After all, the bill was tabled back in 2011, and then there was a parliamentary election, and then it was tampered with again. That is why I have to say that I think we have improved the proposal by the fact that there is now parental consent in connection with the sale or other transfer of mopeds to young people under 16 years of age. There were some rapporteurs who talked about how in the past you could just go up and buy yourself a moped and then run on it. And yes, there are some who have experienced that, but I think it is good that we have gone in and changed these prerequisites to be allowed to drive mopeds. I would also like to make a few comments on the fact that it is said: we can see that things went wrong at the time with the 15-year-old rule. Yes, but I hope everyone will recognise that if you go back to 2011 and look at the age reduction to 15 years, then the Folketing agreed to introduce a number of measures aimed at improving the safety of young moped riders. The training for moped riding was significantly improved and stricter sanctions were introduced, among other things. to drive without driver's license and drive on a tuned moped and drive with drugs or alcohol in the blood. Well, remember, there were tights made. That is why I think the time has come for us to try to give it the opportunity and try to show that confidence and try to see how things are going. No one in the population needs to be nervous, because in this Parliament laws and attitudes are changing, so it is not the case that nothing can happen if another government constellation wants to do so. I think we should do this. I think it is well thought through in the right way, and then it is also about showing confidence in the young generation. I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414135741	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414135745	I have received a request from a citizen of North Zealand who asks if it is possible to have a faster implementation than has been proposed here in the bill. It is intended that only 1 January will allow young people to obtain a moped driving licence. The question is whether there is really any reason for this, i.e. whether it cannot be implemented more quickly so that they could start taking the driving licence now. Of course, it is only after they have obtained their driving licence. I just wanted to ask you if there's any reason for that, or you could imagine that it was moved forward a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414135819	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414135820	Well, I think that's a reasonable argument. I think it is. I just have to look through how and how, but yes, I think that is a positive and sensible argument. I'd like to take it and try to see if we can put it in the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414135839	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414135841	The Minister keeps on going, and many others have done so in the debate to refer to the good experiences of Germany, but it certainly requires to some extent that it is also the same arrangement that has been implemented in Germany. You don't do that here, because you don't make any demands on the escort. They say it should be an experienced companion, an experienced driver, but it is a rather diffuse concept. What is it to be experienced? As I said, you may have had a driving licence for 10 years without having as much as a mile of experience driving a car. So I don't think it's quite comparable. I would also like to know whether the Minister has not noticed the consultation answer from the transport researchers at Aalborg University, who have, after all, gone through the various arrangements of a whole range of countries. And it goes without saying that there are, in fact, more or less requirements for the escorts. Their conclusion, however, is that if it were to be really good for road safety, it would actually have to have some arrangements that applied up to 24 years, of course graduated and conditional and gradually etc. I think that is a very interesting consultation answer, and it was perhaps an idea to include that experience and not just refer to Germany all the time and then introduce a system which is not the German one, but took into account all the experience gained from a whole range of countries, so we got a road safety good result from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414140008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414140008-2	Well, with a little blink in your eye, sir. Henning Hyllested, I would like to say that on another occasion, when we discuss various legislative proposals, I will remember how much Enhedslisten wants us to have arrangements in Denmark that are different from those in the rest of the European Union. I'd like to remind myself of that anyway. That's interesting. Well, without that blink, I'll say: well, sir. Henning Hylllested, so let's look at what it takes to get Enhedslisten to join us. It is clear that we cannot change the proposal fundamentally, but I am one who always likes to negotiate and always likes to try to get everyone on board, and I would also like to include Enhedslisten. Then I also have a better assurance that if the unfortunate thing happens that power changes in Denmark again, then I am free from Enhedslisten making proposals to change it. So I would like to have the debate. I just have to say that it has to be based on trust. And I just have to say, you have to be over 30 years, you have to have been driving for 10 years. If sir... Henning Hyllested has problems with the fact that it is generally enough for you to be an experienced driver, so there are large parts of the traffic code that need to be changed. So I think it's good that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414140119	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414140120	I'm afraid we won't agree on that, unfortunately. I have to say, Minister. I would like to say on the question of having 15-year-olds run on mopeds that it is true that when the Minister refers to the fact that there have been some restrictions in this area, we can, as it were, allow ourselves to reduce the age limit. That is true, but why, if I may put it that way, would cancel some of the impact of improved road safety. That is what I think the government is doing by proposing in L 161 that now you can drive small mopeds from the 15th year. Then, of course, the improvements that have been made in some of the measures that the Minister has also outlined will be cancelled.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414140214	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414140216	But Mr. Henning Hyllested didn't. That's something, sir. Henning Hyllested believes. And what I'm suggesting is something I think too. The truth is, we can't know when we haven't tried it. You could turn this around and say, "We sharpened all these rules." The young people have become very good at taking good care of themselves out there with the mopeds. It's certainly been far better than it was before. Then you can sometimes say, if someone shows good behavior, that then we will also show confidence. Well, if you practiced it a little, it could be the way you saw it. And that's the way I see it. I sign for the young people to behave better in traffic. I would also like to participate in a campaign, and perhaps I think so, Mr President. Henning Hyllested was supposed to help me. So let us do so, let us try to show the young people confidence, and then let us see what happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414140311	Then it's mr. Nikolai Amstrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414140313	Thank you very much. I think it is nice to hear that the Minister is interested in getting a broader basis, a broader majority in the Folketing for the proposal here, and I could also understand that the Minister was very interested in getting Enhedslisten with and even directly asked Mr. Henning Hyllested about what it took. I therefore hope that the Minister will be interested in including the alternative so that we can have a wider majority. I would therefore like to reply in advance to the question of what was needed in order for the alternative to be able to agree to that proposal. It took the proposal to be split into two. The proposal on the experimental system seems to us to be a very, very good thing, which we would very much like to pursue in committee, and we would like to take in more of the German experience. We would really like to be involved in voting through and being part of a majority, whereas unfortunately we cannot get together on the 15-year-old moped riders. Would the Minister perhaps reconsider dividing the proposal when the Minister, as I can hear, is interested in obtaining a broader majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20160414140432	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414140433	Yeah, let's do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414140436	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414140438	Thank you very much. Enjoy your meal).
ParlaMint-DK_20160414140442	Then we say thank you to the Minister for Transport and Building. As no one else has asked for the floor and I do not see that the negotiations have been concluded. I propose that the proposals be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building. If no one objects to it, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414140511	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan Johansen of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414140536	Thank you, sir. President. This bill is about the establishment of housing for mentally and socially vulnerable people. The inclusion housing proposal is part of the autumn rate pool agreement, of which Social Democracy is part and which we are now following up. With the inclusion homes we get a new offer for mentally vulnerable people who need a housing with a social support function in the form of a so-called social care provider. The social care provider must help create a good and secure environment for the residents. Among other things, it has to be done. In order to ensure that the residents of the inclusion home have a link with the labour market, education and local civil society, it is necessary to provide advice and activation. The idea is that residents should only live in the inclusion home for 2 years. During the 2-year period, residents must be supported in having an independent life so that they can subsequently obtain their own accommodation without any support function. The target group is therefore not persons with heavy social and psychological problems, where the need is so great that the aid must be provided in the form of a settlement offer under the Services Act, and the inclusion residence should not replace the aid which the municipality is obliged to provide in advance. In further work, therefore, the Social Democratic Party is very concerned that the municipalities find the right target group, which will benefit from the offer, and that the municipalities assume responsibility for coordinating cooperation between the individual citizen and the housing organisation. Active work must be done to find an appropriate accommodation when the rental period is over, and preferably in the same area, as the purpose is also to build a network. With these comments, I should like to say that the Socialists support the draft law and, at the same time, that Radicals and the SF also support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414140739	Thank you, sir. Jan Johansen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Merete Dea Larsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414140758	Thank you. After all, this bill concerns housing for mentally and socially vulnerable persons who are deemed to be able to obtain a link with the labour market and/or education during a period of up to two years. The law offers an opportunity to extend after the two years if it is estimated that the target is close to being reached. The social care provider function will be a municipal responsibility and a responsibility to be taken very literally, as the rules on the conclusion and termination of leases will not be applicable to these leases. Each municipality is required to use the necessary resources to assess whether the citizen is suitable for an inclusion home or will be better placed in the second offer, as well as that the municipality takes the supervision, guidance and any complaints from the citizens of the homes seriously in an ongoing evaluation of the citizens' progress. So a great deal of responsibility is placed on the municipalities, which I hope they will be grown up. The Danish People's Party welcomes the proposal very much, as as a society we should ensure a variety of opportunities to support the country's citizens in being able to take care of themselves as far as possible. There is undoubtedly a large group of citizens who can benefit from an opportunity like this one and who subsequently have the opportunity to become self-propelled. So we look forward to further treatment and think it is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414140919	Thank you to Mrs Merete Dea Larsen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Britt Baker from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414140944	Thank you. Quiet and secure housing is one of the cornerstones of a stable life. The proposal we are debating now helps the most vulnerable people to get help entering a housing market that may seem incalculable and difficult for people who are having a hard time. The proposal here translates into 30 million. kr. From 2017 to 2019. It is money that the parties behind the rate pool have decided to target to establish inclusion housing for mentally and socially vulnerable people. For the Left, the bill is more than a simple help to find a home. It is also about us supporting this group of people in order to give them help to help themselves. By doing so, we ensure that they have the best opportunities and conditions for creating the most independent life as possible and later perhaps the best opportunities to be moved from passive to active support. That is why, overall, the Left believes that inclusion housing is a very good addition to the existing schemes already in place in the system, and that is why we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414141056	Thank you to Mrs Britt Baker. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414141110	Thank you. The Enhedslisten supports the proposal. At the same time, we would like to point out that there are a great many tasks to be carried out in the general housing sector, and that sometimes we also have to think about whether all housing social tasks should be carried out in the general sector. Is there an upper limit to how much housing associations can lift? Could it sometimes be imagined that the Minister made arrangements with private landlords that they should also be instrumental in solving the problem? Could it be possible to ensure a slightly wider distribution of people with different problems, which could make it easier for them to be integrated into society? I think you should also go with these instruments when you make legislative proposals. That is not to say that it is a bad bill that comes here, but I just think there is a tendency that all housing social problems are something that you want housing associations in Denmark to lift. This therefore has consequences for the housing composition that is in a residential area, and it has consequences for what it is for a network that can arise. I understand that you have a target group here where you really want some vulnerable people to come up with a better life, where they can move on, and I think you should also consider whether you can sometimes make this type of deal with private landlords. Then there is a funding issue in the bill here, and the money, the 30 million. kr., then taken from the rate pool, and we don't think that's the best funding. We really think that these social measures should be paid for through taxation. We think it is a habit that for years now the revenue base of the approx. 800,000 people on transfer incomes by 0.3 per cent. a year, against the fact that the Folketing has had an opportunity to play Santa Claus and distribute the money for good purposes. A great many good purposes can be found, which can be financed through the approx. 1 billion I think it is a pity that the funding is found in this way. What kind of debate are we seeing in society at the moment? Yes, there is a major debate about the fact that billions have been moved to a tax haven. If just a little of that money came to the surface and they came up with a tax in Denmark, we would be able to afford to finance these welfare measures over the tax ticket. We are facing 30 billion. kr. will be used on fighter aircraft, which will then have to be maintained afterwards, perhaps with a cost of up to 60 billion. kr. during the life of the aircraft. So there is money in society, and it is a matter of prioritising them. And that is where I think it is time for the number of parties responsible for the pool of rates to try to re-evaluate it and see whether it is not better for it to come in and be part of the budget negotiations, that it is part of the money that is being allocated together, rather than that there is such a sugar bowl, where money is taken from the people who are on transfer income, and that they erode their income base and then have the means to give money for good purposes. I think those parties should consider that. However, the Enhedslisten supports the proposal and we think that this should give rise to a review and a look at whether there are no more of the housing social tasks that could be carried out in the private sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414141456	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. There are no brief comments. I do not see any rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, and that is why we are moving on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Nikolai Amstrup of the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414141508	Thank you very much. As I have said, the draft law has been tabled as part of the implementation of the rate pool agreement and aims to establish inclusion housing for mentally and socially vulnerable people who have a special need for housing with associated social support. The whole idea of a multiplication of the housing stock as here the establishment of inclusion homes we think in the alternative is a very good way to go. Of course, it is important that the offer of accommodation for inclusion is seen as a complement to the existing offers and thus not as a substitute, and that the inclusion housing offer can function as at least a partial preventive measure, we see as really positive, both for the individual citizen and for the municipalities that are given a new tool in the prevention toolbox. The draft law also seeks a holistic approach for the individual citizen, as efforts in the inclusion home must be coordinated with other efforts in relation to the citizen, and we naturally welcome this in the alternative. However, there is also a focus on what Danske Handicap organisations demand in the consultation answers, namely a better clarification of who is responsible for overall coordination, and they also emphasise that this should lie with the municipality, and we fully agree with that. It is also positive that the comments in the proposal mention that the social care provider can involve voluntary organisations that often have invaluable knowledge of very specific target groups. As several of the consultations also show, one can discuss whether 2 years is too short a period to allow the offer to run for the individual. Fortunately, however, exceptions to this requirement have been allowed if the tenant is deemed to need a shorter extension. It is not optimal that the rental period cannot be extended if the municipality cannot provide another accommodation, as it risks losing part of the good development that the inclusion home would have liked to have brought to the citizen. But we are delighted with the whole idea of inclusion housing, and we look forward very much to seeing experience from practice in this area. The alternative supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414141716	Thank you, sir. Nikolai Amstrup. There are no brief comments. And then we go back to sir. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414141727	Yes, I am sorry that I have just avoided the order, but the treatment in the Chamber has gone rather faster than I had expected. But I am not going to add much either, because all the right things have already been said about this bill. We support this for the same reasons that have already been mentioned, and also because we are part of the pool agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414141745	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414141756	I can make it as short as the Liberal Alliance. We also think it is a sympathetic proposal that will help the most vulnerable and mentally ill. We support that, of course, it is very sympathetic. We support this on the part of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414141812	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. And then we've reached the Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing Ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414141825	I would like to thank you very much for the very broad support for this bill. After all, it is a draft law arising from the 2016 rate pool agreement which, as has also been said, allows special housing to be created for mentally and socially vulnerable people who need to live for a period of time in a place where they can receive special support from a social care provider. As has also been said, the aid must help the residents to be able to cope with an independent existence in their permanent housing and thus also to obtain and maintain a link with the labour market or with education. After all, the scheme is very similar to the starting house scheme, which entered into force on 1 July 2012 and has helped a great many young people with problems. But here we focus on a slightly different, but also a slightly broader target group, namely mentally and socially vulnerable people, regardless of age, and on the integration of inclusion homes into larger general family residential buildings, which is also very, very positive. The bill makes it possible to provide ongoing subsidies for social support in inclusion housing and to reduce the rent for housing that would otherwise be too expensive for this particular target group. In addition, aid may be granted for any necessary small conversion, for example. so that facilities can be created for the use of the social care provider. We also provide for the possibility of covering losses on relocations that the tenant cannot pay for himself. All in all, this will be a very good addition to the schemes already for vulnerable groups under both the General Housing Act and the Service Act. So, of course, I look forward very much to the committee reading, and if there are questions either now or later, I would of course like to answer them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414142054	There are no questions now, but there may be. Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. I can see no more people wishing to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. If no one objects to this, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414142117	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan Johansen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414142136	Thank you, sir. President. The ambition of social democracy is that we should continue to have a Denmark that is coherent and balanced. It must be attractive to settle in all parts of the country. That is why the former government, the SR government, last time we looked at the urban renewal law, provided more funds to strengthen the efforts towards poor housing in our small and small towns. With this bill and the political agreement behind it, we are continuing along this path, as the previous government showed, for the benefit of small and small towns. Specifically, the draft law means that the criteria for the distribution of renovation and demolition of buildings are more targeted at municipalities with population decline and empty buildings. In addition, for three years, we are increasing the state reimbursement for rehabilitation and demolition to 70%. in cities with now up to 5,000 inhabitants. Finally, we are giving the opportunity to convert empty public buildings into private rental homes. This can help to develop and maintain buildings of importance to the area. Several smaller cities outside the emerging regions are experiencing population decline, empty housing in these years, and industries and public institutions are moving or closing down. That is why the previous government has taken the first important initiative to ensure that cities outside emerging areas remain attractive to settle in. This bill builds on those initiatives. And with these comments, I should like to say that the Social Democrats support the bill and that the SF and Radicals do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414142325	There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414142329	So, because people move away from these outskirts in Denmark, do we have to renovate the houses that stand empty? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20160414142343	They can also be demolished if they're not worth anything. The renewal of the area means that you try to make it more attractive and make it better to live when people move into the city, so that you get a better connection in it and get the eyeballs that are in the city moved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414142359	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414142401	Yeah, there's also a demolition element in this, but there's also a renovation element. And that's where I'm gonna ask Mr. Knox. Jan Johansen, if it is not a rather strange approach to it, that you want fine homes where people move away. Is it not a little strange to think that people are moving away from those areas because the homes are not fine enough, rather than having the analysis that they are moving away because there are some other things that they cannot get in the areas they are looking for in the larger cities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160414142434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414142434-2	No, I believe that the measures taken by the previous government and the measures taken by the current government mean that there is a balance, so that it is nice to live in sparsely populated areas. I believe that the measures we are taking will also help to ensure that we cannot all live in the big cities. We know we can't do that. Neither are we. And that is why I believe in a helping hand out in those areas precisely to renovate buildings, for example. industrial buildings and public buildings that can be converted into homes, so that we can also help to give some of the refugees a place to live, but at the same time also improve the facilities in the small towns.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414142521	Thank you, sir. Jan Johansen. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Merete Dea Larsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414142531	Thank you. This bill concerns area renewal, which is part of the key to a well-functioning local community. It is therefore crucial that funds are redistributed, so that areas which do not experience the same growth as large cities will also have better opportunities to create attractive areas in the local community. We see it as a natural link to the relocation plan, which has been initiated so that we can ensure, as far as possible, a more equal Denmark, which is not only concentrating on the largest cities in the country. Many of the consultation responses stress that cities in growth need the means to ensure continued growth. That is correct, but we are facing social pressure, enormous pressure. There must be:
ParlaMint-DK_20160414142625	Thank you to Mrs Merete Dea Larsen. And the next rapporteur is... sorry, is there a brief comment? It is there, and if Mrs Merete Dea Larsen wishes to receive it, I shall try to convey it. It's from sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414142647	Yeah, I'd gotten in pretty good time. I understood from the Socialist rapporteur that some of this money would have to be spent if public buildings were empty, if commercial properties were empty, then they could be set up for housing for refugees. Is it also the goal of the Danish People's Party to move these funds out to Udkantsdanmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160414142712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414142713	No, that is not our immediate objective at all, but we would like to see a better coherent Denmark which also takes into account that there are peripheral areas in which we should try to ensure some kind of growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414142722	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414142724	In other words, the Danish People's Party disagrees with the Social Democrats that this is, among other things, the case. Is that what the funds are supposed to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20160414142730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414142733	We disagree as far as it's not for the purpose we're going into this. We're going into this because we believe that we need to ensure a more equal Denmark where it's not just in the big cities you're experiencing growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414142743	Then we thank Mrs Merete Dea Larsen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Britt Baker from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414142751	Thank you. As the previous two rapporteurs have already mentioned, the aim of this proposal is to strengthen urban renewal outside the emerging regions. Firstly, this must be done through a change in the criteria on which the funds are allocated and, secondly, through the redistribution of urban renewal funds, which in the past have mainly favoured the larger cities. As everyone knows, Denmark has for a long time experienced an increasing migration to the larger cities and correspondingly an increasing relocation from the smaller cities. The consequence is that today we see many smaller cities outside the emerging regions struggling with a declining population, empty dwellings and deserted city centres. This is a major problem, as we risk a Denmark divided into development and dismantling. It is therefore gratifying that the government is now responding to the problem. With this proposal, we are developing and targeting the urban renewal tools that are particularly relevant to small cities outside the growth areas. This means that we are trying to slow down alarming developments and at the same time ensure that living and working throughout Denmark remains attractive. Basically, the proposal is an expression of the government's desire for a better balance in Denmark, and it has just been a matter for the Left, both before, during and now after the summer parliamentary elections. With this bill and the government's other initiatives to create growth throughout Denmark, we deliver on that election promise. This is good for, among others. citizens and companies in the smaller Danish cities. Against this background, of course, the Left can support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414142939	Mr President, we have a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414142942	I would like to ask whether it is the analysis of the Left that people move away from the outskirts of Denmark due to a lack of good housing, or whether it is the analysis of the Left that people move away from the outskirts of Denmark because they seek education and jobs and the like in the larger cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414143000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414143001	After all, it is no secret that it is the position of the Left that we should strengthen these cities. We are then trying to use many different tools for this, and we are doing so because we believe that there are many different reasons for this, and one of them is that residential areas in the outermost regions are falling. So, yes, I would say to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, one of the reasons is that the dwellings fall into the outlying areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414143023	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414143023-2	So if you have a country or a region where there is not much growth and not very many jobs, you just have to build a lot of housing there. Then people are going to move in, and then the growth and jobs come behind because of the housing, or how is it that the Left's analysis sounds here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160414143042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414143043	We can easily discuss the order of things. What is the bottom line of this is that the Left wants to strengthen the outermost regions. We have done so, among other things. by relocating state jobs. Now we're doing this by strengthening the way you can raise these small village communities and the provincial towns. Whether it is jobs that must first, or housing that must first, we can easily discuss. We've been trying to lift through both.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414143113	Thank you to Mrs Britt Baker. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414143125	Thank you. The starting point is, of course, that there is less funding under the Finance Act for urban renewal, and then it is clear that when there is less funding for urban renewal, there can be less. And when the government comes up with something else, and you want to give priority to something out there in some smaller towns, then there will be a reduction in the larger cities, where urban renewal has been used to the highest degree in the past, and then it will go down sharply. That's kind of the downside of this proposal. After all, urban renewal is still needed in the larger cities. The Copenhagen City Council's response to the consultation points out that there are still 4,000 homes with toilets on the back stairs and about 23,000 homes where there are no baths in the apartment. It is just to illustrate that there is a need for some urban renewal in Copenhagen, and there is certainly also in Aarhus, and there is certainly also in some other major cities. And we think it is essential that we continue to give this priority. What, then, is being made up here with the new proposal? Well, there's 20 million. kr., which goes to cities with less than 3,000 inhabitants, for some area urban renewal. So is that an amount that's gonna blow something out there? If you distribute it to all cities of this type, it will be about DKK 66.000. for each of the smaller towns with less than 3,000 inhabitants. I do not think it will be much urban renewal that will be carried out there in the form of renovating housing. It will probably be more that there will be sanctified and that there will be some housing that will be torn down in the smaller towns. There is a consultation answer from the Danish Owners' Associations, which points out that there is a tendency for more people in some cities to live in commercial rentals and thus to live illegally. I believe that there will very much be a tendency for people in Denmark to continue to move to the city. There will be a great deal of pressure to find cheaper housing. With the ceiling on cash benefits that has been adopted in the Folketing and with the integration benefit that will apply from the autumn, there will be even more people who will need a cheap accommodation. There is a high risk that we will see that there will be a slumber where there will simply be people who, instead of living on the street, will be desperate and search for an accommodation that they can afford to pay. I would warn against the fact that we end up having parts of Denmark and having urban areas where housing standards are so low that they are not worthy in Denmark in the year 2016. That is why my point is that urban renewal is still needed. It is very good that the government has such a line with the wish to do something for the whole of Denmark, including the sparsely populated areas, and I really think this should give rise to the government finding some more money and simply saying: yes, there is a need for urban renewal in some major cities, and yes, there is a need for some smaller cities to be sanctified so that they get a boost in smaller urban communities where there are some houses that are removed to create a better framework. So we would very much like to see a discussion in committee of what the overall need for general urban renewal really is, so that housing can be renovated and housing brought up to a standard, so that there is both a toilet and a bath inside the home. Enhedslisten believes that this is what is needed. And that is why we cannot immediately support this bill, which distributes urban renewal funds too thinly in Denmark; it has been found here that there are several things that need to be prioritised, but that is going to affect the general urban renewal in the larger cities, and we think that is a huge disadvantage to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414143518	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414143527	The Liberal Alliance cannot support this bill, and we cannot, because the draft law itself contains the argument as to why it should not be implemented. First, the government notes that there is no need for so many urban regeneration funds anymore. The development is on its own because there is a great deal of movement of people who want to live there, and that means that prices are rising, which means that there is capital available to renovate. It's going all by itself. The market's gonna be okay. We agree with that. We can do away with urban renewal in Denmark in the larger cities. But that does not mean that we have to invent an artificial need elsewhere where there is no need. The bill directly states that now the funds must be spent where people do not want to live, where they move away from. And although we agree with the government that much can be done to ensure that there is growth and development also in the outer parts of Denmark, where it is not so intensive today, we certainly do not agree that it can be done by tightening the cart in front of the horse. The horse is the development. It is, of course, the one who has to run it in the rural areas of Denmark. The boyfriend is the residences. After all, you cannot just build homes where there is no development and expect that the development will be enough because the homes are there. People are moving away from the outskirtsdanmark today because they are looking towards the cities for education and for jobs. They do not seek away from the outskirtsdanmark, because the homes are not good enough. It is therefore wrong to think that it is possible to curb this development by doing something about housing. We must do something about growth. And we have plenty of suggestions on how to do that. We have thus seen an overall economic plan that will ensure that Denmark will not become an outskirts area in the world, but that Denmark will become a growth area, and it will also greatly benefit Udkantsdanmark. But to imagine that you can make a political plan from Christiansborg that we need some people to live in some places where they don't want to live, by renovating the homes there, is wrong. There have been plenty of examples of this. There have been countries in the world with a planned economy where it has been decided to build an entire city with roads and housing and business areas in the middle of a wasteland, and then you have the expectation that people will get there enough, and then the development will get there enough. It just didn't happen. They've been standing like empty new-built ghost cities in those parts of the world where you've done this. And, of course, it will be the same here if you start renovating homes in areas where people do not want to live with the current developments. That is why we must ensure that developments are different. That is why we must ensure that growth comes to the outskirtsdanmark. And then there will also be what will happen in the outskirtsdanmark, which will happen in the cities, namely that the homes will be renovated entirely by themselves, because there are some people who want to live there and pay the rent. So we think that when the government has found that urban renewal funds are no longer needed, the government should not think of an artificial need for urban renewal funds in the outskirts of Denmark, but instead abolish the urban renewal pool. We're voting against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414143853	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nikolai Amstrup of the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414143911	Thank you very much, sir. President. The proposal provides for a targeting of the funds for the renewal of buildings and areas. We believe that urban renewal funds are an important tool for upgrading housing stock and areas, which create cohesion in cities. Urban renewal has had a major impact on the ability of many people to live in modern homes throughout Denmark, but especially in the larger cities. Let me say straight away that we are not happy with the general reduction in resources for urban renewal in the Finance Act, which we unfortunately have not had any influence on. However, we are very positive about the changes to the framework and criteria within the resources that are now available. The proposal here is strongly aimed at improving the possibilities for redevelopment of areas and buildings outside the large cities, and this is a focus that we think is much needed. Many of the smaller municipalities have had difficulty financially carrying urban renewal projects, which is why we are very pleased that the state reimbursement is now being changed to 70%. for a 3-year period for buildings located in cities with up to 5,000 inhabitants or in the open country. We also hope that the proposal will pave the way for some good area renewal projects in the smaller provincial towns, with increased focus on and the possibility of city centre sealing and upgrading of urban cores in what the proposal calls provincial towns under pressure. Urban congestion, which can be helped by this new structure, can be crucial in keeping smaller provincial towns outside the growth areas attractive to citizens and potential movers and counteract the negative impact on commercial and urban life as a whole created by hypermarkets and other major trading entities outside the city centres. Unfortunately, we can also read in the proposal that the special advisory work on local authorities, which could in particular help the smaller municipalities, is not continued, and we are very sorry about this. It is precisely the advice effort that can be crucial for the smallest and most pressured municipalities, which may not have in-house resources to apply for the urban renewal money that could actually be used as a lever to kickstart a new and better development in the municipality. We do not believe that this guidance effort can be done without the funds corresponding to what the special 2-year effort had as a framework. That is why we will also be tabling an amendment to continue this particular guidance effort supported by the means necessary to carry out the task. However, despite the criticisms of the general reduction of resources for urban renewal and the fact that the special counselling effort is not continued, we support the proposal and look forward to seeing the effects of restructuring around the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414144147	Thank you, sir. Nikolai Amstrup. There are no brief comments. Then the trip has come to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414144207	First of all, I would like to thank you for a good debate, I think, on the legislative proposal. I am pleased to note that there is, of course, relatively broad support for the proposal. With the proposal put forward, we are strengthening the urban regeneration tools that are most relevant to small towns, including provincial towns, outside the emerging regions. At the same time, the government is proposing a reprioritisation of state funds for urban renewal in precisely these areas. For me, it is very much about the fact that urban renewal should contribute even more to a balanced Denmark. Urban renewal has its origins in the need for the renewal of outdated buildings and residential areas in large cities characterised by rising housing social problems. Society today faces a completely different challenge. It is therefore necessary to reduce and re-prioritise the state's efforts for urban renewal in the light of the current challenges, which, of course, today mark a number of small towns and provincial towns. These are the consequences of population shifts, job losses and centralisation, and they also result in empty housing. In some of the smaller towns and provincial towns there is a special need for state cofinancing of urban renewal. This is due to the fact that private investment and market forces cannot, as in the larger cities on the same scale as in the past, drive the necessary conversion and adaptation. In the case of the smallest cities, the process of conversion is based, among other things, on: In this context, it is important to stress the importance of the European Union's role in the development of the internal market and its role in the development of the internal market. With the proposed change, municipalities are now getting more instruments to deal with this decline. The slightly larger provincial towns are often challenged by an exhausted city centre, where private investors are reluctant. The experience of area renewal is precisely that when the public authorities initiate an appreciation, it is followed by private investment in the properties. That is why we have proposed that the slightly larger provincial towns should now be upgraded and their own category and pool. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that we are planning an evaluation of legislative changes when the law has worked for some years. Then we will collect the effects and experiences that are now, and it is of course important to ensure that the urban renewal tools are constantly updated and effective in relation to the challenges we face. But when this happens, it is because we actually want to see Denmark in balance, as the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned just before. We meant it when we went to the polls that we wanted a Denmark that was more coherent. That is why we have relocated state jobs, and this must also be seen as part of a better balance in Denmark. And I should also like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414144536	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414144540	Now I come from such a small village community in South Jutland, and I am one of those who has moved away from there. Of course, I also know all my classmates, etc. who moved away, and I can tell the Minister that not one of us did not move away from that area because we were dissatisfied with the housing. So what is it that the Minister believes can be achieved by renovating housing in the areas and which can prevent such people as us from moving away from the area in which we were born?
ParlaMint-DK_20160414144620	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414144621	Now, of course, I will not guarantee that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is exponent to the rest of Denmark. It's not entirely safe. It may be, sir. Ole Birk Olesen differs in some way from many others. But having said that, I am not in any doubt that one of the things that takes up a lot of space I come from such an area too is when things are going down and when you can see that things have kind of stalled and moved. I fully understand that it cannot be alone that we are renovating some homes. And that's not what just does if you move to an area. However, I am very, very convinced that the removal of some of the nuisances and the fact that new housing is actually being built up can also help attract more people to the outermost regions. I really believe that it is absolutely crucial that we have a Denmark in balance, and I have to say that I think the big cities have had enough for a very, very long period. That is why, in fact, I think it is the turn of the outermost regions, and that is why I and the government have chosen to propose what we have proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414144736	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414144737	It is as if the Minister and the government here have a completely wrong analysis of what is going on, because what the Minister calls decay and empty dwellings etc. is not the reason for the relocation. It's a consequence of the relocation. People don't move because things are falling apart. Things are falling apart because people are moving. And that is why the government is taking the quite the opposite approach when the government now prioritises resources to set up housing, etc. instead of concentrating on what it should be about for Denmark, namely creating growth, jobs and development throughout Denmark, and not trying to deceive the population that one can solve a problem by tightening the cart in front of the horse.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414144826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414144827	But Mr. Ole Birk Olesen also has to see this as a whole, that we are also moving out jobs, that we are just prioritizing Udkantsdanmark, as it has gradually become the epitome of, and that we are saying that we want a Denmark in balance. I myself come from such an area, and I can just say that when I look at it, I can see that the places where you have actually, including from the municipal community, gone in and have renewed and shredded everything up a little, it is going around. So, too, private people start, and that actually means that moving there becomes more attractive. I'll take sir. Ole Birk Olesen on a drive. Then I shall try to show some of the examples that I myself know from my own vicinity.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414144920	The next brief remark is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414144924	I just want answers to my questions and I don't want to go for a drive around Jutland to visit some of these towns with less than 3,000 inhabitants, where life has many facets and where the fact that you have shops, schools, day care centres, public transport and an association life helps you to live in such a small town as I live in. I'm not sure this 20 million. kr. spread all over the country to help with some rehabilitation is what helps. I would like to ask about what is being downgraded. There are fewer urban renewal funds available for the larger cities such as Copenhagen and Aarhus, and in the Copenhagen City Council's hearing you can read that there are still 4,000 homes without toilets inside the apartment and that there are 23,000 homes where there are bathrooms in the basement. I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister has figures for the whole of the country as to what kind of residential buildings are out of date and on which urban renewal should actually be carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414145027	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414145028	Of course, I cannot put that forward here. But I can say that when you want to downgrade something and prioritise something else, you will necessarily have to take the money from somewhere, and that is now from the big cities, including Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414145042	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414145044	I would then like to ask the Minister whether the Minister thinks this is a modern accommodation if there is toilet on the back stairs and bath in the basement and if it is a reasonable level here in 2016. I would like to ask the Minister if we cannot fear that there will be some special districts in Copenhagen and Aarhus and perhaps other cities, where housing standards are very low and where, in this way, we risk getting some Danish slums that no one is served with. So, the growth of the larger cities does not come evenly across the whole, so that it is all the neighbourhoods of a larger city that are saved by the growth that is really there in some major cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414145119	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414145120	I mean, I can just say quite clearly that frankly, I think that, for example, Copenhagen has got a lot of money and that when you look out over Copenhagen and see what forces are tense to the wagon, to stay a little in Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's terminology from before, you can see that it is just a few quite different forces from those in the outermost regions of Denmark. I and the Left wish to change that and that is why we have tabled this proposal. Fortunately, there is broad support for this, and I am very pleased about that, and frankly I think there are a lot of people around the outlying areas there are.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414145159	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160414145222	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. I thank everyone for today's work in the service of the people's regime. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, 15 April 2016, at 3 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
