ParlaMint-DK_20160209130009	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209130018	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209130024	I would like to take my point of departure from the conference held in London last week, the Donor Conference on Syria, where I gave a pledge on behalf of Denmark of USD 100 million, 688 million. kr., to the victims of the crisis in and around Syria. It is money that must go to humanitarian aid, stabilisation and development of Syria and to the EU facility in Turkey. It is based on the idea that we are helping the most and best by helping in the neighbourhoods. That is also why last year Denmark was in top five over donors to the victims of the Syrian crisis. We are one of the few countries that meet the UN's development aid objective, just as we are among those countries in the world that are most diligently running when international forces are called to the world's hot spots. I mention this here because it contrasts slightly with the picture that some people are trying to draw from Denmark, which is a false picture, because Denmark is a country that promises and takes responsibility and more to. We ourselves also receive many refugees, but we cannot open the door to everyone any more than we can turn our backs on when the world is on fire, with the belief that everything is just passing by. That is why we need to reduce the number of asylum seekers. That is why the government is pursuing a consistent foreign policy. That is why we must make it cheaper to deal with refugees. This is among other things. Therefore, we have introduced an integration benefit. It takes the top of the refugee bill. In 2020, then, in a few years' time, the integration benefit means that the bill will be 2 billion. kr. It would have been lower than it would have been if the system that we took over had been continued. That is also why we need to get far more refugees away from public support and into jobs. It's the government's top priority here and now. We must do this so that the refugee crisis does not present a permanent problem for our society, for our economy, for our values and for our security. We are in an extraordinary situation that requires exceptional solutions. Today, only three out of ten refugees are in work after three years in Denmark. We have to do much better than that. It's a basic task. We would therefore like to end the myth that you cannot get a job if you do not speak Danish. It's a myth that doesn't hold. Thousands of Eastern Europeans work in Denmark without Danish knowledge. There are jobs that you can dispute without being able to speak Danish. In fact, it may be the other way round: that the answer to a lack of Danish knowledge, among other things. is getting a job. There is also a need to make it easier for companies to recruit refugees. Today it is more than ordinary administratively heavy. And we need to find solutions that will enable refugees with few skills to get to work immediately. This, and more, will be the subject of tripartite negotiations between the government and the employees and employers and in discussions with the municipalities. We have a long tradition in Denmark that employees, employers and Christiansborg jointly conclude tripartite agreements on important social issues. It's a good tradition. The government will try to recreate it. It is precisely in a situation such as the one we are in now that tripartite cooperation must prove its worth. At the same time, the government will agree concrete measures with the municipalities so that the very large tasks of the municipalities can be solved cheaper and more efficiently. We start negotiations on both tracks, tripartite discussions with the social partners and bipartite discussions with the municipalities, with a joint set meeting on Thursday. And it is the ambition that these negotiations can lead to concrete initiatives that are now significantly strengthening the employment of refugees. It is also intended that the agreements will be concluded in time for us to adopt secondary legislation here in the Folketing before the summer holidays.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209130425	Thank you, Prime Minister. We now move on to questions from the party leaders. In the first round, the questioner and the Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time. Two follow-up questions follow, each with one minute's speaking time for the questioner and the Prime Minister. In the second round of the largest party, the questioner and Prime Minister once again have up to two minutes' speaking time each, but the two follow-up questions and answers can only last 1⁄2 minutes each. And I would ask a lot that we follow the rules, including respect for each other, in relation to speaking time, so that at least no one gets much more speaking time than the others. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209130501	Thank you for the floor. It is quite true that, as the Prime Minister has said, tripartite negotiations with the social partners will begin on Thursday. It is a very important social institution that has worked for many years.That is what both the Prime Minister and I think, and that is why I think we need to have a discussion here in Parliament today about what these negotiations should lead to. Because when the negotiations were originally promoted by the Prime Minister, there were a number of areas that were put into play. There was both the pressure on the Danish model I assume that it was social dumping that was our common prerequisites and opportunities to create growth in order to create jobs, that more people have to enter the labour market and that more people have to have proper training, and, moreover, the pensioners of the future were also mentioned as an area of work. Now we have to understand that the Prime Minister has only one, I think, one-sided focus on the integration task, and that is not the integration task we are discussing today. Because we fully agree that the prerequisite for successful integration is for more people to get to work. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party have just presented an integration project, which is about getting everyone to work from day one and getting the order changed, so that you get to work instead of going to language school. So we do not need to discuss today how important it is for everyone to get to work and for us to reverse the tedious development. On the other hand, what I would like to discuss, and what I would like to ask the Prime Minister, are all the other tasks. There are young people who today lack an internship, who are the unskilled, who lack the skills to be able to challenge the jobs of the future, the older Danish employee, who has had a hard working life with a poor working environment. How will the Prime Minister ensure that the trialogue negotiations will also address and address the challenges that ordinary Danish employees face every day?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209130659	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209130701	Thank you for the question that I am very pleased to receive, because if there is a picture that the government wants to initiate trialogues with the sole aim of discussing integration, then it is a wrong picture and then it is good to clarify it. So let me say a little bit about how I imagine the process. The last time you tried with the trialogue negotiations it didn't work out so well it was with one issue, and the idea of making an agreement fell to the ground. My intention to start a process with the social partners on Thursday is to start a long-term process which addresses the various challenges that Denmark faces. I fully agree that, in addition to the challenges I mentioned in my opening remarks, we have a number of challenges. We have made a vocational training reform. We have an ambition that 25%. of a youth year should go directly from primary school to vocational training by 2020, and an ambition that it should be 30 per cent. in 2025. It needs to be supported, and this raises the whole discussion about whether there are enough internships. We can see from our population projections that we will be lacking skilled labour in a very short time. There is a big discussion about how we train our workforce. There are a number of themes, and the government wants to discuss them with the social partners. Having said that, starting in the corner of refugees and their participation in the labour market, it is because it is an acute problem and our ability to address it has an impact on our commitment to the other social problems we face. To put it in perspective with just one figure, it can be said that only three out of ten refugees are in employment after three years. If you imagine that we are able to raise that share just up to the level that we have for non-western citizens of this society, which is already too low, but if we can lift it up there then by 2020 we will free up 2.5 billion. kr. In extra space, and that's why we start in that corner. But it is, of course, in order to move us out of that corner and also discuss the other things that the questioner is asking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209130920	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209130922	I think we should stick to that movement, because I understand that the Prime Minister is reaching out to the social partners and asking for help, and we must also understand that the government of the Government's Coordination Committee has not yet been able to reach agreement on how to ensure proper integration. So it can be said that if it is difficult there, it is natural to involve other parties, and I am sure that the social partners have a lot to contribute in this context. So that is not what matters. Because we need to have turbo on integration, and I believe that what we, together with a number of our mayors, presented last week to focus on employment from day one is one of the prerequisites for whether or not we succeed in doing this. But I have to ask a little what the premise of the negotiations really is. Is it to be understood that the prerequisite for the tripartite negotiations also to talk about the lack of internships, the need for adult and further training, ensuring a proper working environment, taking care of those who are worn out is to find a solution to an integration challenge which both the Prime Minister and I know is difficult?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209131025	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209131027	Well, I understand that the questioner, who himself belonged to a government that failed in this project, is so concerned about what should happen if things go wrong. But that's not my starting point at all. So, my starting point is that a number of problems have been identified, which we have jointly mentioned, I have mentioned some of them here and we have a desire to discuss with the social partners. But I also see that the absolutely overriding acute problem is the fact that thousands have arrived in Denmark in a very short space of time in a very short space of time... which will potentially break our society if we do not manage it, both financially, because it takes away all our room for manoeuvre, and human, social, value-wise. And that's why I have to insist that we start in that corner. My prognosis isn't that we can't move out of that corner. So, my starting point is that when the social partners come in on Thursday, it is with a sincere will to do better tomorrow, which we did badly yesterday. And that is an urgent matter, because if we are to make legislation in the Folketing that follows up on this, it has to be in place in this session. That is why we are starting there, and my forecast is not that it will not succeed; my forecast is that it will succeed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209131151	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209131153	I'd like to ask you something. Why does the PM stay in one corner? After all, it is indisputable that we are facing a major challenge of integration. Everyone can see it, I hope; everyone is aware of the seriousness, I hope; everyone knows by now that new tools are needed if we are to reverse the boring story we have in Denmark that many refugees who come here do not enter the labour market. We can put that aside, because we agree with that. But what about everything else? And what is really preventing the Prime Minister from dealing with several social challenges at once? It is not the case that at Christiansborg or among the social partners we can afford the privilege of focusing only on a population group and a corner of our society, when we know that there are a number of Danish employees who every day experience a labour market that involves obstacles and challenges. I am very, very concerned that we have raised the level of education in Denmark, because we know very well here at Christiansborg that if our unskilled people are to be able to cope with global competition, they must be allowed to improve their skills. So shouldn't we say in all courtesy, get away from the corner and solve the various social challenges that are, because they haven't disappeared from the fact that a refugee crisis has shown its difficult face?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209131305	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209131307	I don't really know what kind of conflict you're trying to build up to. I'm not talking about standing in a corner. I'm talking about starting in a corner and moving out of there. It's not enough to focus. I assume the previous government also focused on this. It had the government that was before the previous government, too, and the government that was before. We have had this in a generation with quite devastating results, scandalously discouraging results. I meet business leaders on a daily basis who express an ambition to take responsibility here, but who find it difficult to live it out in practice because they are met by a bureaucracy that cannot be dealt with. We simply have to insist on this being done differently. It's not that we don't have to discuss the other things. We do, but it is because this is urgent. It has not been done with what I agree with, moreover, to say that we have to reverse the starting point. So the starting point is that you are available for the labour market and, until proven otherwise, have a resource that allows you to work. It's not done by saying it. We need to develop some models that make it work in practice so that it gets volume so that capacity gets into this so that it doesn't drown in bureaucracy. That is why we start there and use the first phase of the permanent dialogue that I hope we establish with the social partners to address these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209131427	Thank you. Let's move on to round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209131432	Since this is so urgent, why has the government not put forward its own proposal? I think that is perhaps the most relevant question to ask. After all, we get good ideas from the trade union movement, partly from employers, and in all humility we put forward an integration project on the part of the Social Democratic Party last week. When it is so urgent, when it is so vital a social area, when it is so crucial for how Denmark develops that we make integration run, why has the government not presented its own proposal? The government has now been in government for six months, and there have been plenty of opportunities for us to follow the discussions in the public eye to put forward what could be the government's contribution. Because we need everyone to confess their colours, to meet at the table and find solutions. I think it is, I would like to say, remarkable that a Prime Minister speaks up seriously but has not yet put forward a concrete proposal, and we must then understand that is left to the social partners. I have great faith in the social partners, but I would like to get a little closer to the process. The government and the Prime Minister would so like to start in a corner and move from there. I would suggest, of course, that we start with the various challenges that exist. And I would really like to ask on behalf of the Danish employees who may experience a labour market that also presents challenges for them, regardless of the challenge of integration • whether there is a guarantee, no matter how the integration discussion may go, that we will also reach them. Will there be room in the trialogue for the woman who has been working in the cleaning area for many years and who is now experiencing that the body is wearing out? Will the young man or woman who is desperately looking for an internship in order to be able to obtain the skilled training, both he, she and Denmark need, become a discussion in the trialogue negotiations? In other words, is there a guarantee to Danish employees that we will get through all the areas, no matter what happens in the area of integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209131636	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209131638	Thank you. Well, thank you very much for this advice on how to deal with this. It is also the case that the questioner represents a great deal of experience in this field. The last time you tried it all fell to the ground. I have been watching and trying to reflect on this. I think the wise way to deal with this is to agree on an analysis of some challenges and try to develop solutions together. That's the whole point of Tripartite. I think it would disturb the process if it were the way the government put forward ready, thoroughly worked out proposals and said: this is just what you have to say 'yes' and 'amen' to. That was the strategy tried under the last government, and nothing good came of it. So is it the case that the government is showing up with a blank paper on Thursday? No, it's not. It will be the case that, at the trialogue meeting on Thursday, we will present the parties, and thus, of course, the public, to the government's analysis and to the government's proposals on how to deal with the issues we have. Then it will be asked whether I will give a guarantee that all other social problems will also be dealt with in Tripartite. The guarantee I can give is that all the social problems I have identified in the government base and that this government wants to address, we will do something about. And ideally, we are going to do something about it in collaboration with the social partners. Is it exactly in the institution called Tripartite? Yes, I hope and believe so. But it is also ultimately based on the ability to deliver results, and that is why we start where we start with the heaviest, most acute social problem we face. Because if we don't crack that nut, we'll tie up the whole room for manoeuvre in the Danish economy for a number of years. Then we risk breaking our society: that cohesion crumbles, that there are differences in value, that tolerance in our people is going backwards and that our ability to solve the other problems thus decreases.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209131853	Thank you, Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209131854	But then we got the conclusion: if Danish employees do not go to trialogue negotiations and solve the problem that Christiansborg has not been able to solve, then there will be no solutions in other areas at the same time. The PM could have just started saying that. I would like to say that, in my view, this is a completely wrong way of dealing with this. Of course, we must carry out the integration task that exists and, if we think about it, we can also do it. But to be so one-track and at the same time send the signal that if Danish employees and employers do not carry out the task that Christiansborg is unable to undertake, then the tripartite institution will not be able to discuss the other challenges that ordinary Danish employees face in their daily lives and in their working lives, I think there is a strange way of tackling the negotiations. I guess it's almost a threat.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209131940	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209131942	No, I'm not threatening anyone at all. I express the optimistic view of life, which of course contrasts with Mrs Mette Frederiksen's own experience.I admit that when we have identified some problems together, we also have an ambition to address them together. I have, with increasing strength, addressed the problem we have. I have also done so on the basis that, if you think back just a few months, some people pictured that it was almost a gift that a flood of refugees crossed the borders. It could solve our demographic problems; it could solve our long-term problems with lack of labour. It was almost obvious that these people could go straight to the research departments Thank you to the Prime Minister, we must keep to the speaking time!). That picture is now nuanced, and on that basis we start to solve these things in the real world so that we can deal with the other problems as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209132038	I am only saying this because I think there should be respect for speaking time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209132041	In all respect to the Prime Minister, I think that the Prime Minister here really reveals much more than I had dared to dream of. For the task of integration must be undertaken, there must be no discussion here and there, but to say today that there are no other major social tasks on which we should use our energy is a misconception. Optimism for me is and represents the will to handle several things at once. It is no use starting in one corner with one major social task, if you can see that there are other tasks that are not being lifted, and that is why my final response is just a call for a broader view of the challenges, because there are also other employees who need both your efforts and mine.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209132126	Thank you for the question and answer from Mrs Mette Frederiksen and the Prime Minister. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Sorry, it's the PM for answering. I almost thought the Prime Minister had used his speaking time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209132138	I see everyone's left me. Then I hope that the social partners will come forward. I have no ambition to take Mrs Mette Frederiksen out of a dream that she apparently has. It sounded more like a nightmare to me. I mean, I must have expressed myself very badly if I leave the impression that I am not concerned with other problems than integration. I must have. On the contrary, on the contrary! So we start with the most pressing problem. I think it is logical to solve the most difficult problems first. We look at that so differently. History must judge whether it is a wise strategy that I have founded.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209132230	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen's round is over. Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209132236	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister for the introduction. In a sense, I think there is reason to start by commending the Prime Minister, because I think that the diagnosis made by the Prime Minister in relation to the social challenge we have is correct. We saw the Prime Minister of Berlingske Sunday among others. say that the cohesion force in Denmark will break in all dimensions • he will, however, continue the sentence with • if integration does not become better than before. But the fact that the cohesion force in Denmark will break in all dimensions is true when we look at the social challenge we face. The Prime Minister is following up some things, as he said in his opening speech, that so far integration has failed: after 1 year in Denmark, only 1 in 10 refugees are in work or education, and it is depressing; after 4 years it is only a third, and it is sad; and of all immigrants from non-western countries, not even half are in work, although many have been here for 10, 20 or 30 years, and that is deeply worrying. I fully share the view that this is something that really puts the whole cohesion of Danish society and the construction of our society at risk, and it is on the basis of the assumption that 25 000 refugees and migrants will come to Denmark this year, and then there will be family reunification. That gives 40,000 to 50,000, or how many it will be, because we do not know, and then the government is looking for a lower number next year, 15,000, which is also the year after, and the year after, etc., with the result that the economic challenge we are facing up to 2020 has been assessed, in other words, in the light of a decreasing number of years to come, 48 billion. kr. It is quite right, as the Prime Minister says, that there is a risk that it will take out all the economic space, and everything we should challenge the Danish welfare society will in fact be spent on this task. What, of course, is my question here today is what the cure is. When 6,000 refugees and family members have not been able to integrate so far I also asked the Prime Minister about it in the last Question Time, but I did not get an answer, rarely, you do not get a reply from the Prime Minister, but I did not get it here, and therefore I have to try again.What is it for a Columbus egg that you have found when you say you can with perhaps 50,000 people who just come to Denmark this year?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209132502	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209132504	I don't know if there's a Columbus egg. If there's going to be an egg, it might be a cheek egg, like a three-in-one thing, because this isn't a task that can be solved by the fact that we're getting better at integrating. Our overall response to this immigration and refugee crisis that we are in the middle of, and where last summer we saw a hole in Europe's external borders, is not just a response that says that people are going to work now. It's three things at the same time. Firstly, we must do what we can to reduce the number of asylum seekers and migrants coming to Denmark. We have not finished doing what we can to ensure that. Secondly, we need to develop tools that enable us to handle those who then come in a flexible and appropriate and, yes, cheaper way. Thirdly, there are some who come, even if we solved the first two things now: that the war in Syria stopped, that the Greeks started to look after the border they should be careful of, that Turkey lived up to the agreement reached by the European Union, then there have already been people coming to Denmark, who are in Denmark, who have been granted refugee status, who are legally entitled to seek family reunification, and therefore it is a bottom-up task that we also have to do something more to try to make them self-reliant, self-reliant. So I am not standing here and giving a simple answer to a complicated question, and I think everyone else should try to refrain from that, because there is no such thing. We need to do several things at one and the same time, and keeping the number down and under control is an element of it. Therefore, I also have to attack when you use the words: that we bet that there will be 15,000 in 2017. It's gonna sound so positive. I went to elections in 2015 based on the figure that there came up to 15,000 in 2014, and I said that I think that number is too big, that number I would like to drive down. Therefore, it is not an expression of a positive rate that there will be 15,000 in 2017, 2018 and 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209132714	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209132716	No, I mean, now it's not like someone was dreaming about what I thought she was afraid of. In other words, when I said rates, it was because I fear that there will be more than 15.00; that when it is 25,000 this year, you cannot come down to 15,000 next year. So I'm afraid there'll be more. When there are some 62 000 people coming to Europe in January, even though we have been discussing for six months how to ensure that the external borders are secured so that people do not enter Europe in this way, it seems to me that it has failed completely. 21 integration plans have been made since 1999 • 21 integration plans! And it is on the basis of 21 integration plans since 1999 that the Prime Minister of Berlingske Sunday says how wrong things are and in his opening speech did the same. That is why I am interested in knowing what we really intend to do, which is crucially new. For what has not been possible in relation to the integration of the 6 000 refugees and family members who have come to Denmark on average can be done, even if we are talking about 15 000, 25 000, 30.000, 40,000, 50,000 including family members. So, is this a new low-wage market where we flood the Danish labour market with cheap labour for the companies we are out in, or what kind of Columbus egg? The Prime Minister can call it a cheek egg or whatever he wants. I am just interested to know what it is that has been tried in 21 integration plans, which must suddenly now succeed on Thursday when you start these trialogue negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209132842	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209132843	Yeah, it's not gonna work out on Thursday. But I completely subscribe to the picture drawn by the historical achievements and the many plans, and I do not stand here and claim that it will be easy. I am trying to get through with the message that because it is not easy, we cannot refrain from trying to solve the task because it cannot go away. And there's no such tool in the real world that can make this problem go away. That is why we have to go into it and try to do something about it. What are we gonna do? Yes, what we need to do basically is to try to develop a road for people with a non-Western background into the labour market who are unbureaucratic and who take into account that they do not have, it can be said, the full competences of day one, if they are to have worked, to receive a normal salary. That's what it takes. There are such tools in advance, so there are plenty of them. We have 80-20 schemes, we have business practices, we have wage subsidy schemes, but we all have handy schemes, mentors and consultants and case managers. What you can only say quietly is that it does not work. I think one of the reasons why it doesn't work is that it's so messed up. You either have to be dedicated beyond the usual, if you are a small company, or you have to be a big company that has, you might say, the corporate bureaucracy, the HR department, perhaps also a CSR policy that makes you go into this. We need to simplify it so that the broad undergrowth of small and medium-sized enterprises in Denmark finds this workforce attractive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209133023	Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209133025	Thank you. I believe that one of the essentials is not to turn refugees into immigrants. And what really helps to underline with the line being taken now is that refugees coming to Denmark and receiving asylum are being turned into immigrants. They must then become evident from day one if it is up to both the Left and the Social Democrats. I think that's sad. I would much rather ask the Prime Minister, as my last question here, to help develop a return strategy where it is about how to guarantee people's competences, children's education, etc., to the time when they can actually return home. But it must be an objective, including in the minds of these people who come to Denmark, that what we are doing is for them to return. I visited a company in Vejle yesterday, where I talked to a Syrian refugee who was in, I think it was company practice in this company. I asked him what was really the challenge, then, if there was now peace in Syria, I said in 3 years, not because it is necessarily realistic in 3 years' time, but if now that there is peace in Syria in 3 years' time what was his perspective then. It wasn't coming back. It was to have a happy future in Denmark. And that is surely what is absolutely essential, namely that we really should tell the people who are being helped, also in Denmark, that this is not the perspective they should have for the future. Of course, we must help people to become whole people, but it is with a view to their coming back and helping to rebuild the country from which they have fled.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209133142	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209133144	I agree with that, and one does not exclude the other. I also saw the excellent broadcast with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, and I also saw the Syrian refugee's reply. That is possible, and it covers a personal ambition. It does not shake the fact that if there is peace in Syria in three years' time, the basis of the person concerned will disappear to reside legally in Denmark, and then he will be sent out. So for me, this is not about turning refugees into immigrants. For me, it is about making refugees self-supporting, because the alternative to that is that they are on public support. I tried to give you a number before. If we could raise the employment rate among refugees, because it is far too low a level that we now have among non-western Denmark, we can free up a room for manoeuvre by 2020 of 2.5 billion. kr. You can also turn it around and say that if we are not better than we are today, then we are burning 2.5 billion. kr. on behalf of some people who are here. That is why it is a completely bottom-up task for me, and it can go hand in hand with the fact that we then do what we can to limit the number. And it can go hand in hand with the fact that we also have an offensive repatriation policy. I would very much like to take part in discussing this, and I would also like to take part in discussing whether we can create additional instruments or incentives to enable people, in addition to their accumulated qualifications, to have savings when they go home.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209133310	Thank you. The question is closed. Here you go, Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209133318	Thank you. Today, the Folketing is going to deal with the government's so-called cash aid ceiling. I think that is such a rather strange word, because it makes it sound like today's cash aid recipients are just getting an infinite amount of money, and that, as you know, is not the case. What the bill is really about is cutting the benefits that unemployed Danes receive. And it's really cut deep. According to figures from the renter's LO, a single mother could lose more than $5,000. per month • more than 5,000 kroner. And just the single parents, and it's very often women, is one of the groups that gets the hardest hit. These are the people who are out there now worried about: can we now pay the rent if this becomes a reality? They are the ones who know that this will have consequences for their children. Can you afford to take part in leisure activities? Can You Have a Children's Birthday? You know that their children will have the concern that I do not think any children should have, namely: can Mother now pay the rent? Their misfortune will then have to finance a tax reform which means that the tax will have to be reduced for those who have theirs on the dry. They're the kind of people like me, and they're the kind of people like the PM. How do you get that idea? How do you get the idea that you will take money from some of the citizens of our society who have the very least, who are the most vulnerable and vulnerable, in order to give tax reductions to such people as us? And doesn't the Prime Minister have the slightest concern when, for example, The National Association of Housing Companies expects that about 14,000 people will simply not be able to pay the rent, and when the National Association of Municipalities says clearly: do we believe this simply means more homeless people in Denmark? Doesn't the Prime Minister have any concern about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209133517	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209133518	How do you get that idea? they are asked. Well, when you have the basic idea of politics, you get the basic idea that it must be worthwhile to work and that it must also be so from a reasonable point of view that if people take on a job in Denmark for something similar to minimum wages, they are overall better off than if they do not do so on the assumption that they can take such a job. That's what drives us. It's an ambition to make people move. It is an ambition for social mobility. It is an ambition that it is best for children to grow up with parents who go to work rather than to grow up with parents who do not go to work. It is the same thinking that lies behind the integration benefit, which is, after all, another expression of the ceiling on cash aid when we speak people who come in from outside. And here I would just like to remind quietly that without for example... With the current influx of refugees, we would be missing 2 billion. kr. in 2020. And politics is of course a priority, and without the 2 billion. kr. We would be prevented from doing a number of other things, whether it is to create a homeless strategy or to make further efforts in relation to our drug addicts or to pay out an elderly cheque to the weakest of our elderly or whatever it might be. That is why the government has the political ambition that we want to reduce the number of people on public support and that we want to increase the number of people who support themselves. And the way to it is partly through setting a ceiling on cash benefits to ensure that it is worthwhile to work, partly, and it is then stage two in the autumn and not in the spring as originally planned, to provide tax relief. And that is not true when the questioner says 'to people like us', because the ambition of the tax cuts we want to give in the job reform is to ease the tax burden on people with small incomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209133726	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209133727	That is absolutely right when the Prime Minister says that politics is about prioritising. I cannot understand the priority of cutting back on people who are affected by unemployment or disease, in return for lowering taxes on such people as us. Now the Prime Minister is saying that we are not going to have tax reductions at all. Can the Prime Minister of the Parliament today say that there will be no top tax relief in the forthcoming tax reform? That's one thing. The second thing is that the Prime Minister says that it is actually about helping the people who go unemployed. I don't think the single mother who loses $5,000. a month, it sees it as a help. And I don't think the Prime Minister himself believes in the strategy, because when you read the bill, it says that you expect 700 people to get to work as a result of this cash aid ceiling, but it's 30,000 people who get hit. So there are two questions: can the Prime Minister guarantee that no top tax relief will be given in the forthcoming tax reform? And secondly, how can we defend a law that has so severe social consequences for people who have the least already, when we only expect 700 out of 30.000 people to get to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209133847	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209133849	What will have social consequences is if we do not move this society in a direction where there is a better balance between those who are involved and promises and those that we have parked on a sideline for various reasons. That is what I was talking to others about before when I spoke about the refugee situation, which, of course, highlights this perspective, but it also applies completely without this influx of refugees. We have the paradox that while the economy is progressing • employment has increased by 67,000 since we hit the bottom in 2012 • we still haven't lost the corresponding employment growth among our own. A large part of the employment growth in Denmark is drawn from the fact that people continue to enter from Eastern Europe in particular. We have to do something about that. Because when we talk about making the single mother happy, I think that what will make her the most happy is if she can get a job so that she can earn her own money so that she can raise her children in her own reflection of someone who gets up in the morning and does her job. It's the turn we want to give society. Thank you, President-in-Office.). And that cannot be judged on just one thing we do. It has to be assessed on the overall effect. And there's the cash benefits ceiling one of several elements.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209134009	Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209134010	I didn't get an answer to that with a reduction in the top tax. I think that both Mr. Anders Samuelsen and I long for a clear answer. To the single mother and the unemployed at all, I would like to say that I share the ambition to get as many as possible into work. I think everyone does. I can only note that not even the government itself believes that these severe cuts will get people into work, because you yourself have written in the bill that 700 people will get into work annually as a result of that proposal, but it hits 30,000 people. So how does it work? There are thousands of good reasons for getting a job. I agree with that. The vast majority of unemployed people dream of getting a job, but jobs do not just hang the trees. This reform is the expression of a deep distrust of the Danish citizens who are going unemployed. It is a mistrust which comes from politicians who themselves have their own doubts. I think the Prime Minister owes a reply to the many people. How can you reduce their benefits so drastically when you don't actually even believe it works?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209134124	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209134126	Well, I believe one hundred percent that it works. And this is not about theoretical computer calculations of the work supply. It's not about that. It is about what kind of situation you are in when you, for example, find yourself in. is offered a job where the salary is not flashy, where you might have to meet in the morning very early, where there may be transport time, where you have to ride 5 km to and from work, and where you put the job offer against the situation of being on public support. It is, of course, a concrete and individual choice. It also has something to do with psychology. This has nothing to do with a theoretical labour supply calculation. I can only note that, although we are currently making progress in employment, part of what is drawing on the increase in employment is not Danes who get into jobs, but it is people who come in from outside and get into jobs. There we have to ensure that more Danes on passive support enter the labour market in an overall strategy. And doing this, where we both set a ceiling and give a tax relief, is one of the ways. Am I guaranteeing that there will be no top tax relief? No, I don't. However, in relation to this discussion about the recipients of cash benefits, it is not the top tax incentives that are of interest. It is our ambition to reduce taxes on people with small incomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209134253	Thank you. Sir. Anders Samuelsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209134302	Thank you. I would like to raise another issue which has been criticised by a whole series of organisations, namely the Government's idea to resume the logging of citizens' IT behaviour. A whole series of organizations and companies have pointed out that this is going to have a cost to them of up to several hundred million kroner. This is a totally unclear basis on which the government intends to do this. This is a matter of legal concern, and this is even an over-implementation of a directive which has already been rejected. Can the Prime Minister try to explain why it is okay for Danes both with Internet connections, but also now in the mobile sector to be able to be monitored day in and day in?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209134352	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209134355	Thank you. Now it is the case that the government has not put forward any legislative proposal yet. It is quite true that the government is doing some thinking, and everything that is said in the debate, including the rapporteur and the organisations, will of course be taken into account and included in the overall thinking of the government. Right now, the Justice Department is working on a bill. It will then be sent in the usual consultation, and the comments that come will of course be taken into account in further consideration. When the discussion is interesting at all, it is not an ambition to monitor any more. What drives the debate is to ensure that technology development does not mean that tools we have today lose forward. We have, for example. logging mobile phones and can therefore take down mast information that is used both in criminal cases and in the fight against terrorism. We must ensure that we agree is a good idea that we have legislation that also picks up if there is a technological nest, so that some of the communication that is taking place today, for example. on mobile phones, moved onto other platforms. That is the political motive, and I will probably not be able to go much deeper into it because, as I have said, no legislative proposal has yet been tabled. There is work going on, it is going to be consulted, and then it will also be considered here in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209134531	Thank you. Sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209134533	But the fact is that the open letter, which has now been sent to the government by organisations and companies, comes on the basis of an initial briefing which the Minister of Justice has had with the organisations, which has caused them a very, very great concern, among others. from the former Left Minister, Rikke Hvilshøj, who is today Director of DANSK IT. The proposal, the drawing that is currently in existence, is perhaps best described by a picture that it corresponds to the fact that from now on every Dane has an agent behind him who takes notes and who promises not to publish these notes unless there is a reason for it. In other words, we are all per year. definition is under suspicion actually seen. That is the problem. What is the problem here, I think, is that a bourgeois-liberal prime minister is also going to abuse citizens' legal certainty, respect for the right of citizens to privacy, and that, when the state is under pressure, we are taking advantage of the opportunity to tighten up further in relation to monitoring. I think it's unsympathetic.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209134649	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209134651	Shouldn't we just let this process go quietly, get this bill out and have a serious discussion about it? The government hasn't proposed anything yet. It is my feeling that there are quite a lot of myths in this debate. It's about finding a balance. I agree one hundred percent that we must respect our fundamental right to privacy. Nevertheless, if I were suspected of something very, very serious, because it is not a banana state in which we live, for example. to be able to obtain mast information on my cell phone so you can see where I've been. It is not the case that you log the contents of my mobile phone conversations, but you will be able to see through the technology that I am using with my mobile phone, where I have been, if you can get a judge's word that you should be able to see if the event is serious enough. I think that makes sense. What is our political motive now I repeat it again: what is the political motive is to make sure that what we can do today in relation to, for example. mobile phones, we can also forward-looking when technologies change when technologies change. So it is not carried by an ambition that we need to get closer to people's privacy, or we need to see what they have been looking for on the Internet. It is borne by what we are already doing with respect for technology change, but we can return to it when there is a proper basis on which to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209134824	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209134826	I can of course choose to regard this here as a guarantee given by the Prime Minister in relation to the many organisations that have now expressed their clear concerns, in relation to the Think Tank Justitia, which has pointed out that this is going even further than what has been rejected once as illegal, namely the implementation that was previously carried out by the directive, which was taken off the table in 2014. Then I will choose to conclude by saying that I take as a guarantee that you will not go further than what you did before. We respect the need to protect citizens' privacy, not to run around feeling that we all have an agent in our backs, that we are not, as a starting point, almost under suspicion. I assume that this must be how I interpret what has been said so that we can meet these organisations, namely that the Prime Minister can say from here: of course your concern here is unfounded. You're not going to have to see bills of up to hundreds of millions of dollars for you to deliver the product that the government is now making up to be delivered.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209134939	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209134941	I am not going to decide how the questioner will choose to interpret what I am saying. I can repeat what I am saying. I am trying to explain what is the political ambition behind the fact that we have set in motion a work that has not been completed. When there is a bill, it comes in the usual hearing, and then it comes under discussion here. That's a lot more consideration at the same time. The first is to ensure that the police and our authorities, moreover, have up-to-date and effective tools to solve and combat serious crime, including terrorism, in a situation where technology develops, so that the protection concerns, the ambition we have had and which can be captured around ordinary telephone, can also be maintained when you move from telephone to Internet telephony. The second is that we must, of course, respect the fundamental right of all of us to privacy, and whatever we do, it must be linked to the necessary guarantees of legal certainty and, finally, that we should of course not impose unnecessary burdens. This is what is, as it were, the political platform of the government and the reason why work has been started, on which there is now a public debate, even though it has not been completed in the government. That must then be the starting point on which we must be tested when the legislative proposal is put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209135053	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Prime Minister. The next one is sir. Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209135102	My first two questions will be about integration, and it has been a subject that has been raised several times today, at least two other parties have also focused on it. After all, it is no secret to the Prime Minister that the alternative strongly disagrees with the asylum policy that has been voted through in this Chamber, but, on the other hand, we must also face up to the fact that 70%. After all, colleagues here actually support the asylum package. I don't want to focus on that now, because that decision has been made. But I want to look more at how the hell we get a much, much better integration policy than the one we have today. This is a challenge, and it is clear that if it had been easy, that problem would not have existed. It was difficult ten years ago, it was five years ago, and it is today too. But the positive thing, if you are going to try to look at it positively, and I would actually like to, is that there are a lot of good trends. In other words, we can see in the municipalities that it is far better to get refugees into work. It is not everywhere, but there is an example such as Vejle, where, over the last two to three years, the employment rate has shifted from 11%. at 36%. Among refugees. We also see far more bilingual Danes entering volunteering and helping to actually try to integrate the refugees who are coming. You can just go down to Central Station. I mean, you see a huge voluntary commitment that you can only be happy about. You also see a new, exciting cooperation between municipalities and companies. A good place is in Assens, where the municipality has gone along with Bilka to get refugees going and at the same time teach them Danish. It is a challenge, but the curves go up, and that, of course, is the momentum we need to seize. At the same time, we see, of course, that the number of working people is falling. There's been little 13 percent. less active in Denmark since 2000. So we may also be able to exploit some of the refugees who are coming. My question to the Prime Minister is: what concrete initiatives does the Prime Minister have in terms of creating the world's best integration policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209135325	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209135327	First of all, I would like to acknowledge the positive approach, and I really hope that we can provide the atmosphere in this House, that although we can look at what kind of protection we are providing in relation to how many or how few people are going to Denmark, one must basically, like democratically, respect that those decisions have been made. And as a result, we are faced with some challenge that would have been greater if it had been Mr. Uffe Elbæk's asylum policy, which had been implemented, than now, when it is mine. But that is still a challenge, and if you can just put the other aside and ask, how do we solve it? Then we are already one step further down the road, because it is a difficult task. I am not in a position, within one minute and 15 seconds, to snap my fingers and say that this is the way to create the world's best integration policy. I can see that one of the keys to getting people into employment is that the starting point for the discussions we are starting on Thursday is to turn things upside down, so that, as now, it is not only three out of a hundred refugees who are even available for the labour market, but that, from the outset, it is 100%. And the starting point is that when you have been granted refugee status, not when you apply for asylum, then you must in employment and as close to proper, ordinary private employment at a private place of work as possible. And then language and other skills must be built around it, and this must be done on the basis that you are at a real Danish workplace. It doesn't do that alone, but that's where we have to start.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209135505	Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209135507	In fact, I would like to credit the Prime Minister for the ambition to get the social partners to play a much more active role. This was also mentioned by one of my colleagues earlier. I look forward to the start of those negotiations in this area. But a fourth party to this solution is also the whole of civil society, where, among other things, we... have seen the Friends and the commitment they have shown, but also volunteers in the Red Cross and Danish Refugee Aid. A large number of voluntary humanitarian organisations in Denmark are undertaking an enormous task right now. What makes me happy is that we can see that companies are ready, civil society is ready, and now we have heard a little about how the Prime Minister thinks that the social partners will be involved in this. But is the Prime Minister considering civil society?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209135610	Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209135611	Yes, I do. And that is why I invited representatives of civil society, who are then all of us, you might say, at the integration summit I held at Marienborg in the autumn. And that was also why we subsequently, together with the parties of the Danish Parliament, via, as I remember, the rate-pool funds, it may be that I remember wrongly • financially supported the work which among other things. The Red Cross has taken the lead by making this network of Danes that go in and support. It's just a practical example of that. I fully agree that we are faced with a huge task. There is a great difference between whether we think we should stand with it, i.e. if we listen to the range in this Chamber. There are different ways of reducing the task. And there are also some who have a bit of simple solutions, such as that we just resign from the conventions or fence Denmark in, or whatever it may be. But whatever it is, there is some residual problem left, and it has a scope where you can only deal with it if everyone pulls along. The key is work, and that is why we start with the social partners. But it is also a responsibility for all of us, from the local Scouts Association and Sports Association to the Amateur Theatre Association to the Citizens' Association and the Residents' Association. And I kind of share the impression that there is a broad picture in the Danish population both of an analysis that we face a challenge, but also of an ambition to help deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209135744	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209135746	I am, of course, very, very pleased that we share the perspectives. There is therefore an opportunity now to resolve or to discuss how to achieve the world's best integration policy. We may disagree on the decision that has been taken in relation to the asylum package, but now we have to look ahead and look at how we can together lift integration. The last question comes from the habit of believing from the members of the Alternative, and this is about the tax relief that agriculture got back in 2011, I think it was, of 500 million. kr., because it had to be fertilized less. What happens when agriculture is allowed to fertilize more? If you want to pull the 500 million... kr. Back again?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209135834	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209135836	Thank you. I mean, my understanding is not enough to know exactly what tax relief some have been given in 2011 and with what motivation. But I think I can answer the question anyway: do we have an ambition to put an additional tax on agriculture? That is, of course, what the question leads to. No, we haven't. When we do not have it, it is because we believe that our agricultural and food sector is a cornerstone of our welfare society. 140 000 Danish jobs are directly hung up on our agricultural sector, and it is from farmers who are getting fewer and fewer and then all the way up the value chain, where there are more and more slaughterhouses, dairies, export sellers, researchers who develop bacterial cultures based on milk, and more. It is, of course, the whole range that helps to ensure Denmark a huge export earnings and which has helped to create our welfare and prosperity societies. We want to give that better and not worse opportunities. That is why we have no ambition to place more financial burdens on us, on the contrary. If we had the opportunity to do so, I think we would do the opposite. I do not promise that, but we do not bring tax increases, either to that part or to other parts of the Danish business community.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209135957	Thank you. The question is closed. Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209140004	Thank you, President. I would like to return to the trialogue negotiations, because it is the very big agenda of this time that has to be set in motion on Thursday. In any case, it must solve some of the major social problems if it succeeds. I would like to ask about the second part. I mean, we've had the discussion about refugees going to work. I think that is essential, there should be no doubt about that, and I also think it is important that they get to work quickly. I agree with the Prime Minister and the Social Democrats' President that it is about the importance of being part of Denmark, and that is why we must also contribute by possibly paying taxes to our community at some point. The second part, which I think is just as important, is about many of the people who have fallen out of, among other things. our cash benefits system. We had a reform back in 2010, which has ended up with more than 50,000 people losing the right to unemployment benefit, and not all of them have got to work. Some have come into education, but we also have a great deal that has not come into work. Now there has been a new unemployment benefit reform in which the calculations show that we are talking about 8,000 to 10.000 people continuing to fall out of our benefit system in the future. I would like to ask the Prime Minister this, because I think this is one of the major challenges, that is to get them to work, to get them to become part of the labour market, and that requires more than just cutting benefits, it also requires looking at the issue of upgrading and training. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether, in the trialogue negotiations, the Prime Minister has an ambition to negotiate improvements, so that fewer people than the now 8 000 to 10 000 people fall out a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209140138	Thank you. Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209140140	I have an ambition to pursue a policy that means that more Danes enter employment and that fewer people are dependent on public support or partly public support. It is thus independent of whether partial public support is a benefit, where people have paid a lot themselves, but where there is also a tax-financed element, or whether it is cash benefits or other forms of public support. That is, in fact, my great ambition. Yes, there is a great deal of ambition that can be discussed with the social partners, because this is something that we are dealing with, among other things. on creating the right match between the labour we have and the jobs we have. Because, as I have said, we have had an increase in employment of some 60 000 since we hit the bottom in 2012, but this does not mean that the number of Danes in employment has increased. For part of the job openings that are in Denmark are filled in by people coming from outside. I wouldn't mind if we couldn't fill them ourselves, because the alternative would be that those job openings would be empty. But it was much more interesting if, overall, we could conduct a policy that allowed some of the people who are placed on the edge and then you can be longer or shorter from the edge of the allowance, cash benefits and out of there, to get into employment. If you have to get into that agenda, you will also have to discuss qualifications, of course you do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209140306	Thank you. Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209140308	I'm glad the Prime Minister has a focus on qualifications. I think it is part of the trialogue negotiations, but with regard to that part, the Prime Minister did not answer whether it would be part of the trialogue or not, only what is politically going to be done at Christiansborg. I don't mean to be polemical. I just thought it was nice to know what was involved in the trialogue. We know that the government is preoccupied with growth. I am also concerned that the Danish economy is moving forward, and there should be no doubt about that. And when you look at both the figures of the Danish Industry and, as such, the Workers' Council, it is very clear that by 2020 we will lack 30,000 skilled workers in Denmark. Of course, we can now find ourselves in a situation where we choose to welcome Eastern European labour force, but we could also choose that many of the people who have just gone out of the labour market, who are unskilled and who need to get back into the labour market, will have access to education. Education and job rotation are, after all, some of the means we can use to get people into the labour market. Therefore, I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister will make this a subject in the trialogue negotiations, making it an important discussion in the trialogue negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209140416	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209140418	The whole question of how to secure the skilled workforce as time passes will be a subject we want to discuss with the social partners when we come to it. For we are starting with the really urgent issue: what are we doing in terms of getting these refugees who have now entered the country in a much larger number than could be expected a few months ago into employment? But then we will naturally discuss this. I cannot, of course, stand and develop the solutions on the ground, and that would also be weird, because then there would be no reason to be in dialogue with the social partners, but I think there are several things at the same time. There is something about supporting young people's educational choices. We have taken some steps here at Christiansborg with the new vocational training reform. It has to be followed to the end if we're going to achieve these targets in 25%. of a youth year entering directly from primary school in 2020 and 30 per cent. in 2030. There is an internship dimension to it, because there has to be a perspective when you take an education. And very well there may also be a discussion on how we use our VEU funds and other things to ensure that people who are today competent unskilled become even more competent.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209140531	Thank you. Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209140532	I am, of course, pleased with the promise made by the Prime Minister, namely that this will be a subject and a subject that will be included in the trialogue negotiations. I think this is crucial, because we are in a situation where many people feel pressured out of the labour market or feel that they do not have the right competences, and that is why they and us are experiencing a situation when we have refugees who come and come to work. I do not want that gap between them and us to be increased, but instead we show that we also take care of those people who may have worked 30 years on the Danish labour market, have lost their jobs because of the economic crisis and do not have the right competence to get back to work and that we also give them the opportunity. Therefore, when I drill a little bit in what the Prime Minister says, namely that when we get to it, it is not because I disagree with what is an acute problem, but does it mean that if you do not solve the acute problem, then we will not come to the second, which is actually an acute problem for those people who do not have a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209140624	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209140625	I am very, very much in agreement and think these are some wise words, the one with them and us. In other words, that is what I fear most on behalf of all of us: if there is this picture that it is either-or that it is them and us, because it is at risk of producing something that is very stereotyptic and that really prevents problems from being solved. Because there are no simple solutions. And that is why part of a future solution is also that workers continue to enter the country's borders. We are thus part of Europe, just as Danes travel the other way. Well, of course we'll solve the problems we're now setting out to solve. So I simply do not want to deal with the hypothesis that the social partners should come in here on Thursday with a joint analysis that we have a major social problem and that it should end up with us doing nothing about it. Well, I just won't let my mind darken by such depressing thoughts. This does not mean that in the trialogue negotiations we can solve this challenge completely and make it go away. You can't, it's heavy and hard. However, the trialogue negotiations must provide proposals and solutions that help us all to reasonably believe that we are raising the employment rate among new-born refugees. And I believe that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209140755	Thank you. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209140803	Thank you. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister's statement that we are now going to a new subject, certainly in common happiness. It is, of course, the case that the right to live in our own home sees Conservatives as something absolutely crucial and fundamental in our society. And we were absolutely sure that the time had now come to find good solutions for the homeowners, that it was the end of people's taxing from house and home. Now I understand that the tax minister has postponed negotiations on a new system until the autumn. It has to be seen in a 2025 context, understood, and we think that is really good. It is always good to try to see it in a larger perspective. We thought that this meant that until then, and until we find a solution, the root cause is of course also automatically frozen when it is postponed for another year. But they say no to that. I think the tax minister said he couldn't stand here and promise tax cuts for the open screen. Does the Prime Minister not agree with me that the promise that has then been made is tax increases too open? Because if we don't do something about this, if we don't freeze the ground debt when we postpone the system, then it's a tax increase for the landowners.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209140922	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209140923	In other words, what is the starting point is that we completely regulate the ground blame in the way we agreed and agreed together when we were last in government together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209140937	Here you go, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209140939	Then it's a good thing we're somebody who's developed a little bit in this field. But now it is the case that we from the Conservatives have presented a proposal on how we can get all the way beyond this, namely by abolishing all housing taxes, providing a platform for us to give the Danes security in their own housing: Away with all housing taxes, introduce a tax on the profit margin of the housing from the day the bill is introduced and away with the right to deduct interest. And then there is even room for growth in the public sector, if anyone so wishes. Would it not be obvious to seize the opportunity we are giving the Prime Minister on a silver platter here? Because it's only because we want the government to get a good case with us in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209141026	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209141028	Thank you. I mean, when sir... Søren Pape Poulsen says that it is good that one has evolved since then, does it mean that it is good that one is no longer in government, or what? I have to say that I am not going to develop at all, because although it is inconvenient and perhaps a little harder to face up to responsibility and you cannot take the tempting and a little easy views, I still think that it is best to take responsibility for yourself. And, of course, we have together set up a system in which we like to allow new assessments to slowly rub off on the tax ticket. Last year, it was a conservative requirement in the financial negotiations that the landowners were exempted from what we had agreed together historically. We found a solution to that. Whether we can do it again in 2016 compared to 2017, will have to be tested in the autumn when we know what the 2017 economy looks like. With regard to a completely new housing tax system, it sounds very, very inconvenient to change everything and then introduce a property tax. There is the problem that in relation to the revenue we are going home today and it's money we've spent we're going to owe. It's not that simple. But let me put it this way, also to round up positively that one of the reasons why we pushed it this autumn is that it provides an opportunity for us to have a comprehensive, well-prepared discussion on Danish tax policy as well. In other words, we must discuss top tax and bottom tax, and then we must also discuss how a new property assessment system should find its way into a forward-looking tax, although it is important to say that we have a tax freeze by 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209141220	Thank you. We need to ask for a little more quieter in the Chamber so that we can calm down until the last questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209141226	Thank you. That's not how I thought about developing. I think that we are happy to take responsibility, including in this Chamber. I think we do that in the Folketing every day, but it has been seen that parties take responsibility, even if they are not in government. There must also be room for new thinking, I think, in Danish politics. There are times when we, as politicians, put something on the table where we think that it can happen, it shakes the boat a little, but perhaps it is important for the discussion that we should have with each other and society at all, that we also show new ways. I am also very much looking forward to talking about taxes this autumn. There are now high expectations among all. I am quite sure of this and the Prime Minister can count on it that we will be very constructive when it comes to the Danes having to pay less in tax. But what is the PM's announcement to the many homeowners who are now thinking: How many years does this continue unconsciously? So, is there a security you can look forward to for the housing economy? Otherwise, there are citizens in this country for whom housing taxes are so high that they have to move from home and home. This will be the result in some places in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209141332	Then the Prime Minister ends. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209141334	Yes, there is, of course, the certainty that we broadly agree on a housing tax freeze until 2020. And I fully understand that this is defined in the way it is and as we defined it together when we were last in government together, where there is a ceiling on the increase. That is the starting point. Then I am also looking forward to this autumn's discussions, and I can easily see some charming features of the Conservatives' proposals in the form of ideas and sketches. I just have to say that it must also be put to the test in the real world in order to be able to deliver the money we have already put into the budgets and have already committed and have largely already spent. Where I think politically there should be a common ambition to which we can then return, is that if you can afford to buy a house in the given situation you are in, then you should also be able to afford to sit in it if there is nothing in your situation that changes. In other words, that is at least my own political approach to it, and also what the government wants to do, when we discuss all these issues in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209141455	Thank you. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209141505	From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter stating that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 25 January 2016, it is provided for the transfer of responsibility for part of Title IV of the Act on Electronic Communications Networks and Services from the Minister of Industry and Growth to the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate, and that the responsibility for matters relating to the secrecy of electronic communications and the processing of personal data in the field of telecommunications is transferred from the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate to the Minister of Industry and Growth. The message will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 25 January 2016 provides that the responsibility for the compliance of Title IV of the Act on Electronic Communications Networks and Services is transferred from the Minister for Industry and Growth to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, but so that the responsibility for the tasks relating to sector-specific competition regulation under Title IV of the Act is carried out by the Independent Telecommunications Authority, including the conduct of market studies, the safeguarding of interconnection and the supervision of sectoral merger control under Chapters 11-14 and 16-18 of the Act, remains with the Minister for Industry and Growth, and that the responsibility for matters relating to the secrecy of electronic communications and the processing of personal data in the telecommunications sector is transferred from the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs to the Minister for Industry and Growth. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Lars Løkke Rasmussen
ParlaMint-DK_20160209141547	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209141627	Member of the Folketing Jesper Petersen applied for leave from 09.02.2016, cf. section 41 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 4. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209141655	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the second deputy of the Social Democratic Party of South Jutland, Anne Sina, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 9 February 2016 on the occasion of Jesper Petersen's leave, since the first deputy, Troels Ravn, has already taken up his duties as an ordinary member of the Folketing. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209141728	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The vote was rightly carried out by Kaare Dybvad (S). ] The Committee's recommendation has been adopted unanimously by 105 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209141756	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. One proposal has been made. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 21 by Karina Adsbøl (DF), Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil (S), Jan E. Jørgensen (V), Pernille Skipper (EL), Laura Lindahl (LA), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Marianne Jelved (RV), Trine Torp (SF) and Mette Abildgaard (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. 111 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted in favour, 0 abstentions and adopted the proposal. The vote was rightly carried out by Kaare Dybvad (S). ]
ParlaMint-DK_20160209141903	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209141929	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209141946	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. It has been proposed that the draft law be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209142018	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209142053	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209142122	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (S, EL, RV and SF), joined by a minority (ALT). A vote can be taken. Here you go. The vote is closed. In favour of voting 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 57 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The vote was rightly carried out by Kaare Dybvad (S). ] The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209142231	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209142250	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209142308	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209142325	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, adopted by a majority (DF, V, EL, ALT, SF and KF) or on Amendment No 1, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209142354	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209142422	Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209142440	I just want to take two minutes of your time and tell you that Enhedslisten has tabled an amendment which deals with the physical location of interpreters in the legal proceedings that are taking place through video communication. The legislative proposal that we are going to deal with now is about many different things, among others. such things as taking blood tests and who can do it, and everything else. But part of it is also about the interpretation not necessarily having to be physically placed with the defendant when video interrogations are made. And we think that is not just a minor problem, but actually a very big one. It is already the case that in Denmark we have quite a lot of problems with interpretation in our legal system. Too many simply do not know what is going on around them when they are indicted if they cannot Danish. The interpreters are not certified. A report has been made on the report at the latest. from the Institute for Human Rights, which shows that this is a real, really big problem. If you then also move out the interpreter's physical position, you will lose even more communication between the defendant and the interpreter, and we risk even more people going through our legal system without properly understanding what is going on. And it is not justice, ladies and gentlemen, that happens if you do not understand what is going on in a court of law. That is why we have tabled this amendment which takes that part out of the legislative proposal so that we can be happy to vote for the rest.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209142622	Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209142630	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT and SF). And a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The vote was rightly carried out by Kaare Dybvad (S). ] The proposal has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209142714	The debate is open. We need to calm down before the first rapporteur comes up. Thank you. It's sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209142753	Thank you. Today, the government and the Danish People's Party are proposing to introduce a cash aid ceiling so that the poor Danes become even poorer. The government and the Danish People's Party will do so because they believe that it should be worthwhile to work. Of course, working must pay off. Who doesn't mean that? But the prize for the Left and the Danish People's Party's Cash Aid Ceiling becomes a poorer society. Because what you do is you just pass the bill on to the weakest. The amount available to disabled people, to homeless people, to single parents and to thousands of other recipients of cash benefits is reduced. And that is simply not fair. Specifically, the ceiling on cash benefits will set a limit on the total amount of public benefits to be received. The ceiling will particularly hit children's families and single parents really, really hard. Over 24,000 recipients of cash benefits in Denmark will be affected by the ceiling on cash benefits. On average, they will have their housing support and special support reduced by DKK 1,500. a month. 1,500 kroner. Every month may be the difference between whether you can afford to live in your apartment or not. That's the money these people can't spare. They already live in the cheapest apartments. There's nothing cheaper to move to. These people have a problem, especially given that, at the same time as the Danish People's Party and the Left's cash aid ceiling come into force, we will have many refugees who also need housing. What do you do? Maximum pressure is put on the municipalities, as we can see in the consultation responses from the municipalities. When the Left and the Danish People's Party preach that it must be worthwhile to work, I cannot help thinking that they must have misunderstood something. Too far, the vast majority of Danes can find it very economical to work rather than be on transfer income, not to mention the social, health and self-esteem benefits of taking a job. One has to understand it on the right: the unemployed want a job most of all. And that will be the case, the unemployed will, and if you think otherwise, it is because you haven't talked to them. However, the ceiling on cash aid must be supplemented by a tax relief, we were told in the election campaign. Now we know that the tax credit could be $14. a month for low-paid people. It could be because the tax reform has just been postponed. Now I am well aware that technically it has been done so that it is the housing benefits and the special benefits that are reduced, because then you can be smart and say that you do not cut the cash benefits. I know that DF says it all the time, but that is exactly what the Left and the Danish People's Party do. I know that academics here at Christiansborg and commentators may call it a smart tactic, but for about 25,000 full-time people on cash aid and not least their about 35,000 children, this means that they have less money in their pockets. There is less money for children's birthdays and proper footwear. They pay the price for this smart tactic, and it is totally unfair. I'm here with the Danish People's Party leaflet from the election campaign. I've really flipped a lot in it, and I can't see anywhere that a single mother with two children should have 2,900 kroner. less available per month. I can't see it anywhere, and I've really read it. What I know is that Kristian Thulesen Dahl has said that the financial gain from working must be greater, but not by lowering cash benefits. Instead, the tax on low-income people in the labour market should be reduced. Yet here we stand. The tax reform has been postponed, but the ceiling on cash benefits is not. Is this really what was gained from the fact that the Danish People's Party became the largest bourgeois party? Is that really what you got from voting for the Danish People's Party? I have to ask the Danish People's Party: Dear Danish People's Party, is that really what you wanted? We know that the financial aid ceiling of the Left and the Danish People's Party has major social consequences; we know that the employment effect will be very limited; we know that it will give a tax relief if it is not put off, of DKK 14. a month. All in all, therefore, it is a job reform without a job, a tax relief without any relief in order to ensure that some people who are very much already guaranteed are able to pay for their work. The price of nothing is massive social consequences for vulnerable people and their children. Of course, the Social Democratic Party does not support that. Why on earth does the Danish People's Party do this? I could also say that I wonder about the front page of the leaflet, where there is security and trust. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209143305	There is clearly a feeling behind the rapporteur's words, but I must point out that, despite having feelings in one's speech, one must still remember to refer to a Member correctly so that it is called Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. The first person who has asked for brief comments is Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209143325	I have done so because I would like to thank the rapporteur for a very committed speech, and I think it is nice to hear rapporteurs who also have feelings and remember that it is people we are talking about here who are being extremely hard hit by this bill. I am also pleased that we agree on this matter. There have been other cases of cash assistance and deterioration in the conditions of cash benefits recipients where we have not been in agreement and where such a speech could have been given just as quite rightly, and I have tried to do so on those occasions. Let it go. The rapporteur said that there must be something that the bourgeois people have misunderstood when we talk about this having to lead to more people in work and that it must pay to work. However, the rapporteur has probably read that it is expected that only 700 people will be put into work as a result of more than 24 000 to 25 000 people being harassed and their living conditions reduced. What does the rapporteur think about this when the government itself admits that no more people are going to work as a result of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209143427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209143428	Just saying that 700 people are going to get started and then putting as many as 35,000 children into so much trouble makes me take my head. You can also just look at the story in this and look back to the 00s, where the former VK government did the same exercises, this is just a little worse. There is an SFI report that says that there is no evidence that this actually got someone into employment. This means that the government and the Danish People's Party could sort of just look at what was done in the 00s and find out that it didn't work. But what worked was actually what was being done under a social democratic government, because then fewer poorer. So over here on this page, you can sort of just read a little bit of history. Sir. Finn Sørensen is absolutely right. I think that the price is really, really high for those few people, if anyone gets to work at all, and for putting so many people single mothers, disabled people and others in such difficulties.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209143526	Sir. Finn Sørensen, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209143527	Thank you. But then maybe we two could conclude together that all that talk about how it should pay to work and that more people are going to work, if we take some money from people, is just a miserable excuse for completely conscious and cynical to reduce the living conditions of some of the most vulnerable people in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209143550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209143553	There is something that must be borne in mind when you do things like the cash aid reform, which I myself helped to do when we were in government. What I think works is that you do something active to get people going. A person who may have social problems, a person who has health problems, and a person who lacks education, does not get in work just by making them poorer. You get them into work by using these tools... it can be mentoring schemes, which you have also deteriorated. In other words, you give these people less money and you take away some of the activities that can actually get them going. That's what's a little different from what we did. So it doesn't help anything to take money from people who find it hard to get to work. But the Minister also replied that 70%. of the recipients of cash benefits are not ready for work. So how do you expect the 70% who are not ready for work to get to work just by taking money from them? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209143645	Sir. Hans Andersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209143647	Thank you. I understand that the Socialists do not support a ceiling on cash aid. But we are in a situation where the number of people on cash benefits has increased, we are in a situation where too many people do not pay to take a job, for example. a job with a relatively low salary, for example 17,000, 18,000, 19,000 DKK. I eagerly await the proposals of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament to resolve that challenge. So I would like to ask the Socialist rapporteur whether it is not reasonable that there is a difference between being on cash aid and looking at taking a job and contributing to the welfare society that we all support. Should there not be a reasonable economic difference between being publicly supported and taking on a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209143744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209143745	It is absolutely right that there should be a difference. The Prime Minister, when he was Prime Minister last time, evidently did not understand that, because at that time that was not the case. There was no difference back then. The Socialist-led government did something about this through the tax reform, which, incidentally, was also part of it. Now it is actually the case that 9 out of 10 people get more than 2,000 kroner. more for themselves, if they take a job and when the tax reform is fully phased in, it may be appropriate for all cash benefits recipients to take a job. In other words, the Social Democrats have actually done something about it. The only answer that the bourgeois with the Left in the lead and the Danish People's Party always supports has had so far is to take money from people. But you haven't seen that working. We have shown that this could work, and we have actually achieved results, and I know that too. Hans Andersen is in complete control. I just think the government should try to copy some of the things that the previous government did, because they worked.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209143838	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209143839	Now the rapporteur said that if you simply take a job, there is a gain. The fact is that if you take a job to 17,700 DKK, which is the salary you can be paid for, if you go to a shop here in the Copenhagen area, there is no gain from taking a job. It's a fact. The question again is: should there not be a reasonable difference between taking a job and being on a transfer income? Here it is practical cash aid. Well, I'm thinking about the reasonableness of it. It is as if the Socialists have a view that there should be no difference and there is the question: where is reasonableness?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209143919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209143920	Well, I just got the answer. For nine out of ten, that's the answer. Nine out of ten gets more than 2,000 kroner. to himself in the month. That is true, a great deal of money, and when the tax reform is phased in, it is all. We think this is fair and it can also be done with what we have decided. One might ask the question: is this fair? Now you think 700 people are gonna get started because of this. But history has shown that no one gets started. Is it reasonable to do something that doesn't work and then make sure that 35,000 children get poorer and get harder? Is that fair? I don't think so, but that's what's the difference between mr. Hans Andersen's party and mine.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209143956	The next brief remark is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209144001	Thank you so much. When the rapporteur praises the employment effects of the previous government's cash aid reform, he should perhaps just bear in mind that, according to the government itself, it was actually the huge employment effect that reduced benefits by the then cash aid reform. That is not the impression given by the rapporteur, and I find that regrettable. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur something. Once this ceiling on cash benefits is introduced, it will mean that a single mother with two children before rent, but after tax, will have 17,400 DKK. To live for. I'm not saying it's any dance on roses, but with 17,400 kroner. you can pay your rent, and you can also support your family. Isn't that a very decent amount?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209144102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209144104	We can talk about crowns and ears and what you can live for and what you can't live for. But if you look through the hearing answers and read it like those who know something about this, the social workers and many others say, it's not really funny. For the only people who are positive are the Danish Employers' Association, while everyone else is against this. I would say that these hearings clearly show that many people will be put out of their homes and that many people will have a really, really difficult time. And history also shows that when you last did this, there were really, very many people who became more poor. It's a fact. There's a 2005 report from the SFI that actually shows it. Then we can always discuss whether you can live for it or not. I just note that this is contributing to more poor families of children and that more people are getting really, really difficult, and we simply do not want to be involved in this. Especially when you think about the level of employment where we know it doesn't work. We can see that, so it is a completely wrong way to go, and it is quite wrong to create so much poverty with something that does not work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209144215	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209144217	I think we've read something different from that report from the SFI. Because it was actually stated that when compared, for example. in Denmark, Norway and Sweden and looked at the differences that existed, it was found that Denmark was actually doing a little better than the other countries, and the conclusion found was that reduced benefits had actually been introduced. But I would actually like to ask the rapporteur to deal with what I asked, that is to say: is it reasonable that you should get 17,400 kroner? to live for when you are on cash benefits in Denmark? That's what this is all about. It's crowns and ears and not everything else. Isn't it a very reasonable benefit to receive?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209144302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209144303	Well, maybe we've read something different. I think, too, sir. Joachim B. Olsen and I have read different places. It's obvious. I just have to deal with the report from the SFI that I have here. The result of that study is that more people have had more difficulty in getting the money to strike. I just want to say in relation to the figures that are mentioned: compared to what was done in the '00s, with this ceiling on cash benefits, it will happen that it hits single mothers and that the 225-hour rule will actually mean that a number of people will lose an average of DKK 160,000. That's a lot of money.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209144345	The last of a brief remark is Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209144349	What a svada against the Dansk Folkeparti • Come on, I'll go deeper with that when I get on the platform. - Sir, you can. Leif Lahn Jensen can count on it. However, I would like to ask what the rapporteur says about the fact that your own cash benefits agreement is the cash benefits agreement that the SR government has been involved in making where, among other things, you have done. The abolition of the ceiling on cash benefits has produced results. Then what I'm thinking is: okay, if I look at the figures, I see that the number of cash benefits recipients has increased enormously since the cash benefits ceiling was abolished. And that is in a situation where employment has actually increased over the last two years. So I'd just like to ask Mr. Knox. Leif Lahn Jensen, the Socialist rapporteur, whether it is an end in itself for the Socialists that more people should come out and be publicly supported with cash aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209144444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209144445	Well, I can at least promise Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe that if she doesn't say anything from the platform, we'll make sure we try to get what the Danish People's Party thinks. Because after reading this, I am completely uncertain about what the Danish People's Party thinks, and I actually believe that the Danish People's Party itself is uncertain about it. That's what we saw with the housing benefits... there they were very insecure too. Now let's see if it goes in the same direction here. It's gonna be pretty interesting to see. It may well be that the Danish People's Party is very interested in employment figures and goals in itself and such things, but the difference between the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party is just that we care about these people. We're interested in these people not living in poverty. We are interested in not hitting single mothers, not hitting all these 35,000 children, not hitting the disabled. And here the Danish People's Party has a huge problem of explanation to their voters, and I would be very happy to come up here and defend it, although I would think it reasonably impossible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209144542	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209144543	Oh, come on, I'll say to Mr. Knox. Leif Lahn Jensen. The rapporteur speaks out. I am asking a very specific question. A cash assistance agreement has been drawn up to abolish the ceiling on cash benefits. The number of recipients of cash benefits has increased steadily, while employment has increased over the last two years. What are the results that have been achieved in the previous government and is the goal in itself that as many Danes as possible should be on cash benefits? Answer the question!
ParlaMint-DK_20160209144608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209144608-2	What we did when we did the cash benefits reform and it's going to work was doing some activities for these people. It was mentoring, it was support, it was giving them an education, some competence. And what's very much the difference between this cash-aid ceiling and the cash-aid reform we did is that the cash-aid reform we did back then took an interest in these people and got them going. And what they lacked of tools, we gave them. What we didn't do was we didn't just take the money from them and expect if they weren't ready for work or sick, or what do I know it helped them get started taking money from them. This is what the Danish People's Party does. That's what they did in the '00s, and that's what they're doing now. And I look forward to Mrs Marlene Harpsøe coming over and explaining it to me, because I do not understand what the Danish People's Party is doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209144656	No one else has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series is Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209144712	Together with the government, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, we in the Danish People's Party have concluded an agreement on cash benefits. We are reintroducing the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, which the previous government otherwise abolished. Since the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule were abolished by the previous government, the number of recipients of cash benefits has increased. We do not believe in the Danish People's Party that it is an end in itself to be on cash aid. It is best both for the individual and for society that you are in work and that you can support yourself and your family. We are concerned that they are going into education and jobs, and the ceiling on cash benefits can contribute to that. For us in the Danish People's Party, it is crucial that it should pay off to work. This is not news, as some people are trying to make it here in the Assembly today. In other words, it should not be more economically advantageous to be on cash benefits than to be in work. If you can work, you have to work and not be supported by the public. It is not an end in itself to be on cash benefits. It's good to be at work. This increases both quality of life and self-esteem. The aim of the draft law is to introduce a ceiling on cash benefits, which will ensure that work is just better worthwhile. For a typical family, a married couple with two children, this will mean that they will get 1,200 DKK. more available per month if they are in work rather than on cash benefits. The ceiling will also apply to those receiving educational assistance and integration benefits. And the people who are weakest, who are part of resource programmes, are not covered by the ceiling, which is important for us in the Danish People's Party to point out. At the same time, we are introducing a stricter requirement that you as a cash benefit recipient should of course be available for the labour market, and this means that you have to be in work for a minimum of 225 hours in one year in order to receive full cash benefits. This will increase the incentive to take a job rather than be on cash benefits. At the same time, we would like to point out that people with such a limited capacity for work that the municipality estimates that within one year they will not be able to work 225 hours on the ordinary labour market are not covered by this stricter requirement. The 225-hour rule also does not apply to unmarried persons receiving training aid at SU level or integration benefit. The government's initiative in this area was initially aimed at cutting the performance of young people who had taken an education. However, the Danish People's Party has ensured that this group does not get cut in their benefits, just as we in the Danish People's Party have ensured that cash benefit recipients can continue to take a holiday with the family. As I mentioned earlier, it is not an end in itself to be on cash benefits. With a cash aid ceiling, we help create an incentive to take a job. That's a good thing. In addition, when we discuss this with how much money is available to oneself on cash benefits, we must remember that cash benefits are and will be a temporary benefit that one receives. You're not supposed to spend your whole life on cash benefits. If you do this, the municipality, the job centre, has failed to meet the obligations they have. It is a temporary benefit and it is a help that is provided during a transitional period because it is a temporary situation. I heard the former rapporteur from the platform talking about something like "I don't think he was directly told that we in the Danish People's Party do not really keep what we promise." After all, it is not news, nor is it here from today's platform, that we in the Danish People's Party have worked for a very long time to restore the ceiling of cash aid that we ourselves helped to introduce and which the former SR government then removed again. This is not news and I am happy to take the debate here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209145220	We will have ample opportunity to do so, because there is a number of people who have signed in as questioners. The first question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209145228	Thank you. It is not news that the Danish People's Party is in favour of a ceiling for cash aid. This was also mentioned in the election campaign, but you just forgot to tell us how hard it was going to hit. The Danish People's Party would like to give the appearance that they are the protectors of the weak and vulnerable in this country and that they are the party that guarantees that under a bourgeois government it will not go beyond people who cannot defend themselves. How, then, does the Danish People's Party feel about the crippling, harsh criticism that comes from Danish disability organisations and a number of other organisations that know about vulnerable people's conditions? They say that this bill will hit very, very hard when it comes to people with mental illnesses, people with disabilities who have to live in housing that is more expensive than so many other homes, and that the 225-hour rule will also affect the readiness for activity, i.e. people that the municipalities themselves have assessed are not able to contest a job in the ordinary labour market. How does the Danish People's Party feel about that criticism?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209145347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209145349	Sir. Finn Sørensen says first that we in the Danish People's Party should have forgotten to tell the public something about this ceiling on cash benefits. We've always stood up for the fact that we wanted to reinstate the cash aid ceiling, but also that we wanted this 225-hour rule to become a reality. Well, then, sir. Finn Sørensen a question concerning the sick, the disabled and the ready for activity. After all, we must be careful not to confuse everything, but at least with regard to the preparation of activities, it is the case that one can be exempted from the 225-hour rule if the municipality considers that one does not have the opportunity to take up a job within a reasonable period of time, that one is in a situation where one can reasonably be exempted from that particular requirement. As I have heard, it is also the assessment that there is in fact a fairly large proportion of those who are ready for activity who will be assessed to be exempt from this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209145454	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209145456	The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party forgot to tell us that he was prepared to contribute to an edition of the cash aid ceiling and of the 225-hour rule, which is even tougher than the one he was in back in the '00s. You just forgot to tell me. Then the rapporteur refers to what is stated in the comments, namely that, in relation to the ceiling, municipalities have the opportunity to exempt citizens with significantly reduced working capacity, major health problems and also people with significant disabilities. But what about all the others in between? And what are the prospects for the municipalities to take advantage of this opportunity? The Danish People's Party has itself taken part in the criticism that the municipalities are forcing people into completely impossible situations, regardless of what the specialists say and regardless of what the people are capable of.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209145551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209145551-2	The municipalities have such an obligation to comply with the law, and I have thus seen an expectation that they will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209145602	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209145605	Thank you. Now we heard that the rapporteur said that you can trust the Danish People's Party and that what you say in the election campaign is of course also done. I can then see here on April 5, 2015, that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl said: "And there we'll just make it crystal clear that we're not going to cut people's benefits if that's what's in this reformer. Then there was this DR campaign test, where Pia Kjærsgaard said: "Constant aid should not be lowered." If there is to be an increased economic benefit from working, it must be found by e.g. to lower the bottom tax. Who's wrong? If it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, it is Mr. Kjærsgaard. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, or is it the rapporteur? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209145651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209145652	Well, then, I'll be happy to explain it to sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. It is clear that one opponent has been proposed by the Social Democratic Party, and that is the Danish People's Party. I understand very much that the Social Democrats would very much like to see a direct frontal attack on the Danish People's Party. I understand that from a political point of view. However, I just have to say that what the rapporteur has just said is just not correct. Now it is the case that we have always thought that we should not cut back on the cash benefits, and we are not doing that either, because we are not, in fact, doing so with the agreement we have made and with the legislative proposal that is here. What you are doing is putting a total ceiling on the benefits that you can receive if you are on cash benefits or integration benefits or educational assistance, and requiring you to work at least 225 hours a year if you do not want, of course, to be set off or have your cash benefits reduced after one year.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209145759	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209145801	That means that when Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says it's not to cut people's benefits, so you don't cut people's benefits, even though some people lose 160,000 kroner. A year if they can't handle the 225-hour rule? Even if you remove these various supplements, don't you cut people's benefits? Surely the rapporteur does not see that this is something that nobody understands. Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard says that you will not cut the cash aid; Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says you don't want to cut benefits. Now you're standing there saying you don't. Dear Danish People's Party: Isn't that a little clever? And don't the voters realize this is a big bluff?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209145841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209145843	I would now like to say that it is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, who, in this situation, is somewhat sneaky, you might be able to say 'cause Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen... Leif Lahn Jensen knows very well, and we have had this discussion many times, that what we in the Danish People's Party have promised is that we do not want to cut the benefit, and neither do we. We're not cutting the cash benefits, we've been saying that all along. I also have several quotes here on the platform today, where rapporteurs for the Danish People's Party, among others. Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Mr. René Christensen, finance rapporteur, has been out to tell that the Danish People's Party supports the reinstatement of the cash aid ceiling. So that is no news, and we would like to see this target pursued, namely that we continue to believe that it is a good idea to reinstate the ceiling on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209145931	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209145933	Thank you. I would like to return to people with disabilities. The rapporteur says that she expects that many of those who are in the process of resource development will be exempted from this 225-hour rule. I would just like to clarify a few points: who will be excluded and how many people do you really expect it to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150003	Now that's the way I'd like to say to Mr. Torsten Gejl that people who are in resource sequences are not included at all. Compared to this bill, people in resource cycles are not covered at all by either the ceiling on cash benefits or the 225-hour rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150022	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150024	That is certainly something we need to look at. Then let me ask you another question. In relation to the job gain that has been expected in connection with this ceiling on cash benefits, what impression does it make to the rapporteur that there are so few people in work who make so many people poorer?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150047	I would just like to remind the rapporteur in this situation that it is a question of temporary cash benefits. And it may well be that during the temporary period you may just have to cut your budget, your personal private economy, on certain fronts at home, but it is a temporary period until you can move on either in a job, or perhaps you have to go into the course of resources, or you may end up where, after resource progression, you have to go into early retirement. It is not up to us in here to decide what to do, it must be done in the job centres. And now I can say no more, I can look at you President Benny Engelbrecht)
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150122	It is in this case the President that I must be charged as, but that is fine. Sir. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150128	Thank you. I would like to hear from the rapporteur when this bill we are discussing today has become DF policy. I would like to hear how many people get to work when the Danish People's Party suddenly thinks that lower benefits make people get to work. And I'd like to know if you know how much this is going to give and if it gives some money, what if it is going to be used for. Should they be used for tax relief to the richest, as we have seen the Danish People's Party do in the past, where they have cut down on other things? And I would like to ask: what have the single mothers done to the Danish People's Party? The single mothers are one of the groups that gets the hardest hit by this proposal. It's thousands of dollars a single mother could lose because of this proposal. Is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150221	Now I'm gonna ask you, sir. Bjarne Laustsen three questions at once, to which I shall reply in just a few seconds. I would like to ask a few questions to the rapporteur up here on the platform, so perhaps we should not ask three questions at once, because it is impossible to answer in such a short space of time. Compared to how many people get to work by Mr. Bjarne Laustsen is very well aware that it is an assessment of the importance of the cash assistance agreement in relation to how many people are going to work. But it is not in itself that is supposed to give the big job growth here in Denmark, and it is not that which is at the heart of us in the Danish People's Party. What is at the heart of the Danish People's Party is that it must be worthwhile to work. It should not be the case that you have a financial gain from being on cash aid rather than being at work. On the contrary, it should give the economic incentive to think: I want to work because I actually get it more out of it. It has a meaning, and I have no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150322	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150324	Mrs Marlene Harpsøe has learned one thing, and that is to avoid it. Oh, my God, quite a few specific questions about an essential part of a bill we are dealing with, and that is what it costs and what the consequences of a bill are. The rapporteur must be able to do that on his spine. Using half the answer time to answer bypass is really not an answer. I hope, then, if Mrs Marlene Harpsøe does not know that the rapporteur will ask the Minister for Employment the same questions during the work of the committee, so that we can know what the consequences of the bill are, given that the rapporteur does not know, and it has already been said yes before we have finished the first reading. But I can hear that Mrs Marlene Harpsøe has said and memorized that cash benefits are a short-term benefit, and you should not be on it all the time. After all, the Danish People's Party is not very successful in demanding the benefit period shortened and seeing the consequences of it. Is it also the case that there must be a period of time, a short period during which cash benefits can be obtained?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150422	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150426	Now it is the case that I would like to recommend that we continue to hear what I am saying here from the platform, and I have also said that it is a temporary benefit. It is clear that this is a temporary situation which the local authorities must also face up to, from the point of view of the job centres. Because I cannot imagine that it is any happiness to be on cash aid, not at all, I would like to be completely honest about that, but at the same time it is also the case that what we are dealing with here today is that we must do what we can to create incentives for people not to be on cash aid all the time, but actually to get to work, to have a better self-esteem and a better self-conception, because one can suddenly earn one's own money, some money that no one else has given through their taxes, but that is to say, that one earns one's own money and supports one's own family.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150517	Sir. Malte Larsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150519	Thank you for the floor. Like so many others in this Chamber, I simply do not understand what the single mother of cash benefits has done to you and why the benefits have to be reduced. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur recognises that the Danish People's Party's ceiling on cash aid increases economic inequality and how it benefits the single mother.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150547-2	Cash benefits are temporary benefits. I would also like to remind others that there are single mothers and single fathers out in the whole country who have a job and who, in fact, can also have a fairly crowded private economy, and where it is not necessarily the case that you can afford to go to Legoland during the summer holidays of schools, because you have to be able to afford flying suits, boots, mittens and hats for the coming winter season. Even if you have a job, it may in fact be that you are in a situation where you can have the same narrow-neck economy as some people on cash benefits want.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150636	Sir. Malte Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150637	It is repeated a number of times that cash aid is a temporary benefit, and I think it should also be understood, and so it should be. However, referring to the OECD report of December 2014, which includes: I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the DF actually intends to work for this group to have better opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150716	We would very much like that group to have better opportunities. All other things being equal, it is really important that you lift yourself up, but of course also with the help of the public, from the municipality, and that you are lifted into a situation where you get a job and where you can be self-supporting. I think that is something that will rub off on the children, and it would be very good if they could see that Mom or Dad are at work. I think that's really positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150743	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150746	Thank you. After all, I was the housing rapporteur during the last period when we had a social democratic government. When we arrived, there were over 4,400 postponements a year by families who were put out because they could not pay their rent. We did a huge job in the government and got it almost halved. What the organizations are writing now, among other things. LLO, is that lots of families will be thrown out because the cash benefits are being reduced. What will the Danish People's Party do about the families that are put out? We know what a disaster it is for a family and especially for children when you are put out. They have to leave their immediate vicinity, leave their school and secure surroundings where they go in everyday life. What will the Danish People's Party do with the families being thrown out?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150844	I'll give it to you, sir. Jan Johansen is right that it is a really sad situation that you are in if you are suddenly thrown out of your home. It is all just a completely undesirable situation that you end up there. That is quite clear. However, I have also noticed that it is not just a question of the economy that means that one is put out of one's home. I have also read a report which states that it is, and may be, a number of factors which actually affect whether or not one gets out of one's home. Among other things, it can be done. It is also a matter of divorce or psychological problems, just as it may be that you do not have control of the private economy. But this is a situation that we are very aware of in the Danish People's Party, and of course it is not desirable for some people to be in a situation where they are thrown out of their apartment because they have not paid the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150948	Sir. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209150949	I think the rapporteur is not talking about it. I asked the rapporteur what they are going to do about the families being thrown out. I don't hear any solutions at all. After all, all the measures we took have been taken and are there today. Then we know that it is the money that can determine whether the families are thrown out. We know, for example. Nor where the families of the large cities of the non-profit-making homes are to move. They can't move into a new home in the big cities because they don't have the money for it. How will the Danish People's Party resolve these problems, and how will they help the families who are thrown out and ensure that children avoid that disaster? In the long term, you risk putting children completely outside Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209151037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209151038	What we would like to ensure is that we do not get to where people are thrown out of their homes because the bill has not been paid. What we need to do is to do something about prevention. The municipalities can, for example: co-operate with the nearby housing organisations, which manage the individual residential areas, so that you get a collaboration and perhaps let a message go to the municipality if there is evidence that a delay may be imminent. In any case, I would call for this to be done, namely that the municipalities should have preventive work to prevent these postponements from happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209151123	Sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209151125	Thank you. According to figures from the Ministry of Employment, 34 500 children are affected by this ceiling. I hear that the rapporteur postulates that the Danish People's Party is not cutting down, but is setting a ceiling. I would say that this is an extremely creative but not really a very credible attempt to explain away what this really is. How does the rapporteur himself think that this message of not cutting down but setting a ceiling is being received by these citizens, who are therefore some of our most economically vulnerable citizens? I mean, 34 500 kids are gonna get hit by this cash-aid ceiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209151216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209151217	When we set a ceiling on cash benefits, it is the case that if you get more in benefits together than what the ceiling on cash benefits is like that, then it is clear that, overall, you will fall in income. That is true, but now it is also the case that we should like to create an incentive for more people to get to work. We in the Danish People's Party have just noted that an economic incentive is quite important for some, so that they take the very step of seeking a job and making an effort to look for a job and find their right shelf, so that they can have a dependency base where they are not dependent on the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209151306	Sir. Troels Ravn for second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209151307	The rapporteur therefore postulates that we are not cutting back but setting a ceiling. I do not think that is very credible. The rapporteur also talks about the purchase of flysuits, mittens and hats during the winter. I think I lack sincere solidarity and an understanding of the economic conditions that the most vulnerable and vulnerable families in our society are now being subjected to by the Danish People's Party. And I would like to ask the rapporteur if it makes an impression on the rapporteur that Save the Children has called the Left and the Danish People's Party's Cash Aid Ceiling shameful. Does that make an impression?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209151349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209151350	I listen to and hear everything that is being said, and I also read the answers that come in. We must remember that this is a temporary benefit, that it is a temporary situation, a temporary period. It is not intended to be planted on cash benefits for years, even if you have young children or teenagers, or whatever you have at home in the age group within which children are living. That's not supposed to happen. On the contrary, the job centre is supposed to make an effort both to clarify the situation of the individual, but also to do what it can to push in the right direction so that the individual benefit recipient can ultimately do an ordinary job. For it will be good for the individual as well as for society, but of course also for the children. This is a temporary period and there is no doubt that the temporary period will not last for years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209151501	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209151503	There was a time when you could see the Danish People's Party as a slightly different party, which had its fingers a little more down in the mud, was a little closer to reality. But when I hear the rapporteur today, it is the same song that we hear from the rest of the right. There is talk of incentives and about how it should pay to work, as if the people in our country who are affected by unemployment • the thousands who lost their jobs after the economic crisis • do not want to work, as if they should just be pushed with incentives, as if unemployment does not exist, and as if jobs are just something you are pillaging down the trees, if otherwise there are the right financial incentives. These are people out there who need a job because there isn't enough work for everyone. They're the ones you hit with this proposal. What will the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party say to the 14 000 families who, according to the National Association of Housing Companies, are no longer able to pay their rent because the rent is simply higher than the benefit they receive after you have cut it down to the sock holders?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209151614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209151615	I know that there are some in this Chamber who think that it is an end in itself that as many as possible should be on cash benefits. But we do not think so in the Danish People's Party, which is why we have made an agreement on the cash aid. I have noted that a majority in this Parliament has previously abolished the ceiling on cash benefits. I have taken note of that. I have also noted that since then the number of recipients of cash benefits has increased, and that at the same time we have had a period, at least in the last two years, when employment has also increased. That is why I have to say that I think that if we are to do something, it is the right time to do it, because employment is just on the way up. So I think this is the right time to create some more financial incentives for people to get to work. I would like to remind you that, in fact, right now, there are people who are in jobs but who are in need of the economy, and where it can also be difficult to make the private economy stick together. That is also the situation, and I just think that we should stop mocking those who sit out there and who are actually in jobs but who also have a cramped economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209151737	Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209151738	I would not dream of mocking those who are in jobs, because does the rapporteur know who is hit by this? They are also the ones who are in jobs because, during our life cycle, we are almost all affected by unemployment. That's reality. And to that extent there have been more cash aid recipients: yes, why does the rapporteur think there is? This is because unemployment benefits have been reduced because they have limited access to early retirement and because sickness benefits have been reduced. A great deal of this has been added by the Danish People's Party itself. That's why we have more people on cash benefits today. There's nothing else to say about this, except that it reminds me of the schoolyard where the big and strong band together against those who are small and weak. The Danish People's Party has joined the big and strong teams, and it is sad to experience.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209151817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209151818	I completely disagree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209151824	The next thing for a brief comment is Mrs Yildiz Akdogan, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209151825	Thank you. The rapporteur says: if you can, then you have to. That's right. The rapporteur also says that she listens to what is being said, including in the hearings. So I would actually like to point out to Better Psychiatric Responses, which say very clearly that the ceiling on cash aid will weaken the safety net and the financial security of many people and their children. In addition, they say that particularly vulnerable children risk losing their social foothold and living in cramped conditions. Research shows that one third of the children of mentally ill parents are at risk of psychosocial problems later in life. The rapporteur then asked my colleague Leif Lahn Jensen whether it was an end in itself for us to have more people on public service. I would really like to turn it around and ask DF: is it in itself a goal for DF to punish the most vulnerable, the most vulnerable people in this society? Is that what the target is for DF?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209151928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209151929	To the last question, the answer is no. In relation to the hearing answer that has come from Better Psychiatry, to which Mrs Yildiz Akdogan refers, I can say that if, for example, we are going to have to do something about it. as parents have a mental illness, I believe that the municipality should clarify the individual and see if he or she is perhaps so mentally ill that he or she should take early retirement. But then you have to go into a process of resource first, and then you are not covered by the ceiling on cash benefits, nor by the 225-hour rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209152007	Mrs Yildiz Akdogan on a second brief point.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209152009	I am a little surprised by the rapporteur's answer because the rapporteur says: if the person is perhaps mentally ill. So that is to say, the rapporteur is even questioning people who actually have a mental illness and who have been assessed by people who are dealing with these groups that it is difficult for them. It gets even harder, especially for their children, because they get stressed, parents get stressed, and what's in it for you? Nothing. It is not an end in itself for DF to create more inequality in society, but yet it is done. I can't interpret it any different than the fact that DF's wish is to go out and punish the most vulnerable people in this society. It is single mothers, it is people with mental illness, it is their children who are affected by it. Is that what DF wants to achieve with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209152058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209152100	I have not, in fact, questioned a medical assessment of whether a person has a mental illness, because I do not have the skills to do so at all. There are other people who have to judge that. And again it is the case that the very vaguest in this area, which is precisely those in the process of resource development, are excluded. Of course, if it is the job centre's view that resources should be developed, I also have the expectation that the job centre will push so that there will be a job process and that it will be clarified in relation to the whole situation, also in relation to whether it is really right that it should be pushed to get them into ordinary work at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209152144	Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209152147	Thank you. The Children's Council expects this bill to mean that about 13,000 single parents will have their availability reduced by DKr 1,850. a month. I am here with an article from DenOfpublic.dk from 22.01., where the Chairman of the Children's Affairs Council, René Skau Björnsson, says: In the applications among others. for confirmation assistance, we see cash benefits recipients with a available amount of DKK 1,500-1,700. a month. How do you imagine that they will succeed when that amount is reduced or completely disappears? I would like to ask the rapporteur that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209152231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209152232	It is a temporary period on cash benefits, and we are well aware in the Danish People's Party that if you hit the ceiling, it will have consequences in relation to the total revenue that you receive. It is a temporary period that you have to be on cash benefits because the municipality has a responsibility to ensure that you either get into a job or in a resource cycle or something quite different. We therefore have confidence that it will be done by the municipalities, but we have also made an agreement with the Minister for Employment that in this area, in relation to the most vulnerable groups, the Minister must show the flag to the municipalities and issue guidance on what is right and fair in relation to the group of vulnerable cash aid recipients.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209152332	Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209152335	One might say that it is paradoxical to continue to say that it is a temporary period when it is ■ how was it? Then it'll be a little bit hard to find jobs for all of them. That's one. The second is how should I ask this, because I shall not ask the rapporteur to give any guarantee if I assume that this ceiling on cash benefits will mean that there will be single parents who will be thrown out of their homes, does the rapporteur not agree with me?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209152410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209152411	I don't think I quite understood the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209152414	Will Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier just repeat the question?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209152416	Okay. If I assume that this bill will mean that single parents will be thrown out of their homes because they cannot pay their rent, would the rapporteur agree with me on that assumption?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209152431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209152433	What I hear from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier assumes is that the ceiling on cash benefits should in itself mean that people are put out of their homes. Is that what I'm hearing? It's not gonna be nodded or anything, so I don't know. I have to admit that this is perhaps a talk that we shall have to take afterwards, because the question that was asked was perhaps not sufficiently detailed, at least not in relation to my understanding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209152458	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209152500	This bill is about the poorest people in Denmark. We currently have approx. 6,000 homeless people need accommodation, they need a cheap accommodation. We have the prospect of refugees at a low level of integration which the municipalities are going to help with housing this year. Some assume that it is about 17,000 homes you will need there. And then we have this bill today on the ceiling for cash benefits, and it is indicated in BL's hearing that it is believed that there could be 14 000 families who will have very difficulty in maintaining their current housing. So I can just buzz up here that you estimate that in 2016 you have the prospect that there will be a shortage of 37,000 cheap homes. And that's quite a lot. It's not a home you can build and then make sure these groups can afford to live there. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: where is it that the poorest live?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209152603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209152605	I'd like to see them stay where they kind of live. I do not in any way like postponements, but I also think that, wherever you stand in your life, whether you are on public support or not, you should look at your private economy in such a way, in terms of whether you can afford to live in the place you do, but also that, before signing a lease at all, you should consider whether it is also a home you can afford to sit for in two years or in five years' time, because your life situation can change in this way. We are fully aware of this. It would be really, really nice to have as many cheap homes as possible. And it's a complex area that doesn't necessarily work out with a fingertips. It was, of course, desirable that we should be able to get ourselves some more cheap housing with a snap of our fingers, but that is not what reality looks like. We must also bear in mind that what we are discussing here today is, of course, a temporary benefit. People aren't supposed to be on cash benefits for years. It is by no means the case that we should do so. On the contrary, as I have said, it is only a temporary period, a temporary period and preferably not a period, or some benefits that should help to put one out of one's home.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209152736	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209152738	No, but there may be some who have so much overview of their finances that they can see that by a third reading of this bill a single mother with a child may lose 5,000 kroner. a month. And then, if she has an overview of her finances, they can start looking around the country for where it is you can find a cheap accommodation. And then you can move to areas of Lolland, Norddjurs and other places where you can find a cheap accommodation and where there may not be such good opportunities to find a job. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not unreasonable for us to be in a situation where we might risk people moving to those areas where there is the worst chance of finding a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209152818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209152819	It is interesting that you choose not to listen to what is being said. You choose, among other things. in Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's case, to close his ears to exactly what I am saying, which relates to the fact that cash benefits are a temporary benefit. It's a temporary period. And we will then create a ceiling on cash benefits, which will create an incentive for looking for a job, but also for a job. And the prospects on the Danish labour market, I am happy to say, are actually positive because employment is increasing. So we actually have the wind in our backs, in that in the long term it can be done for people, including on cash benefits, to get a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209152911	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen for Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209152912	Thank you. When you look at the consultation answers that have been received in connection with the bill, it is very clear that this bill is a quite serious blow to the most vulnerable and weak groups in Danish society. For example, BL - Danmarks Generale Holidays points out that more than half of the recipients of cash benefits who have reduced their benefits, about 13,000, are single parents. They will lose an average of 22,000 kroner. a year, more of them more than 5,000 kroner. a month. It is quite obvious that the legislative proposal we are debating will lead to further postponements. This will lead to more homeless people, and the previous government managed to break the basket over the homeless. It is completely incomprehensible to me that the Danish People's Party is contributing to such a drastic attack on the most vulnerable groups in Denmark, and I simply do not understand that. This weekend we had Denmark's Collection, where several DFs supported Richard Ragnvald, who, according to his own statement, was about to vomit over the fact that the Danes supported refugees rather than the homeless. When the Danish People's Party supports the legislation we are discussing today, one can at least see that the support for Richard Ragnvald was more about using the opportunity to talk badly about refugees than it was about helping the homeless, because the Danish People's Party really does not care at all about the homeless. We see that clearly proved today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153040	That's what Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen says here is not right at all, and I have to admit that I think we should be careful not to mix a debate, such as Mr Rabjerg Madsen. Richard Ragnvald has started and the debate we have here in the Parliamentary Chamber today. I would very much like to see the Social Democrats, too, cut out their ears a little and actually listened to what was said. Because this is a temporary service. You are not supposed to be on cash aid all your life, but fortunately we all have now, and I am very pleased about that, some grandparents who have worked hard so that we could have the welfare society that we have today. And it is a welfare society which, fortunately, has a safety net that makes it possible to get into a social or economic situation that makes it impossible to take care of one's own family, one has a cash aid, such as the one you have. for a temporary period may be on until you can find yourself another job, or it may be that you have to be clarified in relation to what it is then for a benefit you must have. I would just like to emphasise that this is a temporary service, and in the Danish People's Party we are very happy that there is the safety net that is in Denmark today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153156	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen with his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153157	Thank you. This is turning into DM in black talk. The Danish People's Party continues to point out that this is a temporary benefit, but the rent has to be paid every month. The last time a cash-aid ceiling was introduced, it led to several postponements, and all the consultation responses, with the exception of one, point out that it will lead to several postponements again, even if it is a temporary benefit. What is the Danish People's Party's response to the single mother who is now being put on the street because of the bill that the Danish People's Party is helping to adopt? What is the Danish People's Party's response to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153230	What is the answer to all the people who are sitting out in Denmark today and may even listen to this and think: Hm, my private economy is also needy, but I am well enough at work, I also have two children, and I cannot afford to pay the quota to the football club or new football boots once a year. I don't have the money for that. What's the answer to them? I very much believe that we have an obligation to create an economic incentive to get to work if you are on cash aid. And we are now helping to make it happen today. It must be the case that you can feel that you get a better economy, that is, a higher income, from getting a job than being on cash benefits. That is the whole point of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153324	Mrs. Malou Lunderød, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153325	Thank you. As a Social Democrat, I am very concerned about these children, who are also affected by this ceiling on cash benefits. And it is true, as the rapporteur says, that we have a welfare society where much of it is about our children and future generations having better opportunities. That is why, of course, I am concerned about what kind of future these children can look forward to when they can see that the mother or the father may find it difficult to get the money to strike or might be put out of their homes. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur quite specifically whether the rapporteur can confirm that some 35 000 children can now look forward to being affected by the Left and the Danish People's Party's Cash Aid Ceiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153400	I do not remember the exact figures, but I suppose what Mrs Malou Lunderød refers to here is correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153413	Mrs. Malou Wonderful.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153414	Thank you. Now the rapporteur repeatedly points out that the issue of being on cash benefits is a temporary solution. I also assume, of course, that those who have given a hearing have dealt with this. Among other things: Save the child has given a hearing answer in which they write that the ceiling on cash benefits will make everyday life immensely harder for many benefit recipients and their children, and this will have a number of inappropriate consequences for children. They have also gone so far as to call it shameful. Does that impress the rapporteur? And what kind of future does the rapporteur expect these children to be able to look forward to when they are now affected by this ceiling on cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153449	We all want the best for our children. We want the best for everyone's children. We all want children to have the best starting point in life, to have a good childhood and to grow up in a safe environment, so that they have a really, really good life. There is no doubt about that. We have to remember that situations can arise in everyone's life where you are in an economic situation where you may need to pull on that safety net that we have here in Welfare Denmark, and fortunately we have it. But as far as cash benefits are concerned, this is a temporary period. It's not like the mother or the father is supposed to be on cash benefits for years. We should like to push on to get them to work and get the joy of getting to work, and that it also rubs off on the children, that they can also see the joy of the mother and the danger of having a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153543	Sir. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153545	Thank you very much. I would like to start by reassure the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party that we are absolutely listening to what she says in this Chamber. I've heard a few times a story from the platform about how hard it is for a low-wage family to make things stick together. However, I find it hard to understand that this should be an argument for making the situation worse for others. Another thing I have heard in the rapporteur's speech from the platform was the figure of DKK 1,200, and I know that it has been taken from the facts sheet of the Ministry of Employment and is an average calculation of the impact of a married couple with two children. After all, the fact sheet says that employment gains are increased. Can the rapporteur confirm that this is the number of crowns that a married couple with two children receive less per year? If they are among the approximately 20,000 who are hit by the ceiling but are not one of the possibly 600 who are expected to get into work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153655	I assume, when the Minister for Employment presents some figures, that they are then calculated with thoroughness and, of course, I also have confidence in what is being presented by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153709	Sir. Nikolai Amstrup, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153712	I hear that as a confirmation. When we look again at the fact sheet, I read some violent figures for single parents. Average 3,500 kr. per month loses a single breadwinner with three children on cash benefits. Now we heard this story earlier about how hard it is for low-wage families to make things stick together. A recipient of cash benefits already has less and now receives, if it is a single person with three children, DKK 3,500. on average less per year; month. What are the consequences of such a change in the budget for those families which are already even harder off than a low-wage recipient, even if it is a temporary benefit?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153759	In the Danish People's Party we imagine that it has the consequence of thinking: I can see that I can get a better economy, I can actually get a higher income by getting to work, so now I will do what I can to find a job where I can get more out of working than being on cash assistance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153825	The next brief remark is Mrs Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153831	Thank you. It seems that the rapporteur is completely ignoring the quite large social consequences that the ceiling on cash benefits will have. When it is pointed out that we are going to see more homeless and more poor children as a result of it, it is rejected that it is just a temporary situation for these people. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur very briefly: does the rapporteur recognise that the ceiling for the DF and the Left's cash aid will help to increase the economic inequality in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153901	No, I don't recognize that. What I recognise is that we are creating a cash aid ceiling and a 225-hour rule that creates some financial incentives for getting to work. We must do what we can to lift people out of a situation where they are on public support and to a situation where they can actually take care of themselves. And I just have to promise that if there is something that is really, really nice, it's just that you can take care of yourself, that you have a job, that you can pay your rent and your daycare center, etc. without public support. Nothing is more pleasurable than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153942	Mrs. Anne Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209153943	Yes, and it's wonderful, and we can see that according to the Ministry of Employment there are 700 people who are most likely to get into work as a result of these violent deteriorations. But what about the other 24,300 people who will then be affected and not be expected to get to work? What about those people who will experience a marked deterioration in their income? What about them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209154004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209154005	What is meant by the ceiling on cash benefits, and I am happy to say it again for the sake of Mrs Paulin, is that you get an incentive to get to work. It should not be the case that you get more from being on cash benefits than from being at work. I think so and the Danish People's Party is self-evident. It must never be the case that being on cash benefits and what else you get from benefits does in itself mean that you may not want to take a job because you cannot see the purpose of it. There may be some people who may not all think: It's actually nicer to be on cash, because then I don't have to get out to work. But we must do what we can to ensure that as many people as possible have an economic incentive to say: I would like to look for that work, because I would actually like to be able to save up for the annual trip to Legoland with my kids or what you really want to have profits in the economy to prioritize.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209154108	Mrs. Julie Skovsby, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209154111	Thank you. When you listen to the debate today, you get the impression that the Danish People's Party lives in one world and all of us live in another world. The rapporteur has said on several occasions that this is a temporary benefit, that it is only a temporary period. This isn't about people who are sick or who aren't ready for work. This prompts me to ask the question: is the rapporteur aware of and knows that according to the Ministry of Employment's own figures, 77 per cent are available? by the cash aid recipients affected by the government and the Danish People's Party's cuts, are not prepared to take a job? Is that something the rapporteur knows, and if the rapporteur has read the figures, do they know the figures?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209154158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209154200	I am fully aware of the fact that, for example, there is one. is distinguished between being ready for work and being ready for activity. I am fully aware of that. With regard to the fact that we in the Danish People's Party are living in another world, I would say that then it is a majority here in the Danish Parliament that Mrs Julie Skovsby thinks lives in another world, because this agreement is made by a majority of the Folketing, which includes both the government and the Conservative People's Party, but also the Liberal Alliance. So we are so obviously living in our world, and Mrs. Julie Skovsby's party then lives in another world, and I am quite calm that we are doing that because we now believe that this is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209154240	Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209154243	I am not actually talking about the other bourgeois parties here in the Folketing. I am talking about the Danish People's Party, because that is what the Danish People's Party has said in the election campaign, and that is what the Danish People's Party promises about confidence and security for the Danes, but what I specifically asked was whether the rapporteur is aware of the figures that the Ministry of Employment has provided in relation to this bill which is being discussed today, the figures that say that 77 per cent. by the cash aid recipients affected by the government and the Danish People's Party's cuts are not ready to take a job. Does the rapporteur know about these figures or does the rapporteur not know them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209154322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209154323	Yeah, I know about those numbers. In relation to what Mrs. Julie Skovsby says we should have said in the election campaign etc. on this subject, I would just like to say that it has always been the policy of the Danish People's Party that we want a ceiling on cash aid, also that we want it to be reinstated, because we do not think it was a good idea for the Socialists and also the Radicals, and also the majority of the Danish Parliament, to abolish the ceiling on cash aid, to abolish the financial incentive to actually get more out of work rather than on public support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209154403	Sir. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209154406	Thank you. It's a good deal of liberal talk we're having here today. People must be punished into work, the weakest in society must be beaten so that they can get out and find something they can work with. Perhaps the Danish People's Party should change their name to the Danish Liberal People's Party. But having said that, I really have another question. The Danish Owners' Associations also say in their consultation answer that they are deeply concerned that such a cash aid ceiling will contribute further to segregation of the housing market between the country and the city. This means that the Danish People's Party, which in the election campaign really struck a blow that there should be a balance in Denmark between country and city, has forgotten it. You really don't care now about the difference and the fight that might be, or the balance we have to try to redress again, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209154500	Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I would like to ask those Members of Parliament who need to speak on the phone to go outside the Chamber. Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209154510	If there is something that we in the Danish People's Party are fighting for, it is that there must be a balance between country and city, but also that one should not forget our outskirts, so some call it, but I like the lovely word water edge areas. Regardless of this bill, it's a case we're fighting for and working for. There is no doubt about that, and this is something we will continue to be known for, namely to be those who advocate lower ferry prices for the small islands, better Internet connections, and we have even helped to ensure that there are also some state jobs that are actually moving from the capital to the rest of Denmark. So if there's something we're helping to create, it's a better balance between country and city.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209154556	Sir. Kasper Roug, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209154559	Thank you. Before the rapporteur dreams himself in all kinds of names for rural areas, she might well answer what she thinks of the current consultation answer, that is to say, the fact that we are simply creating a clear difference, also as Mr Giscard d'Estaing said. Søren Egge Rasmussen mentioned in his question to the rapporteur, in other words, that now we are simply forcing some of the weakest in this society to move to places where it is actually cheaper to live. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209154626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209154630	I am in a situation where I think we should bear in mind that there are also some municipalities that have to react before you are put out of a dwelling and move far out into the countryside to a dilapidated house for which a landlord who may not have the best intentions is responsible. We must ensure that local authorities prevent any situation at all where one is exposed by one's apartment. The municipalities can do that today if you get up. Some are already doing so, while others could well introduce initiatives in cooperation with local housing organisations to ensure that you do not end up in a situation where you are put out of your home. Then we should remember that if you are in a situation where you are, for example. It does not necessarily mean that it is because you do not have enough control over your private economy or that you do not have enough finances. It may as well be that you are in a situation where you are in a divorce or you have mental problems. It can also cause you to be in a situation where you may be exposed by your home. So it needs to be prevented.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209154741	The last question we're gonna get to in this round is Mr. Knox. Erik Christensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209154746	Thank you. I understood from the rapporteur just now that I think it was an answer here three or four times ago that the rapporteur has confidence that when you put down the cash benefits, there will be more people in work. We have now also been confirmed, and the rapporteur has also confirmed that it will be 700 who will be working. Is the logic then that if we now put it down further, there would be even more work to be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209154812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209154814	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209154819	Sir. Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209154824	Thank you. If the rapporteur twice confirms, or says himself, that the reason for this is that more people will get to work when there will be a greater difference between cash benefits and wages, then I have to ask: what is the reason why the rapporteur is at the same time standing and saying that if they did not put it further down, there would be no more? Where's the logic of this? What we are doing now is making a whole lot of people more poor, and then we believe that more people are going to work, according to the rapporteur. We have now been confirmed that it is 700 people who are going to work. It is a huge price that the last 25 000 people will have to pay for 700 people to get to work. So you put so many people who have a very, very difficult daily life, some are put out of their homes, others cannot afford to pay for their children's leisure activities, etc., into service, and at the same time the rapporteur stands here and says that it will mean that more people will get to work. What's this all about?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209154925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209154926	I'd like to say to Mr. Erik Christensen, that it must pay to work, it must. It should not be the case that it is better to be on cash rather than on work. I am well aware that there is such a social democratic logic, which states that it must be an end in itself, that more people are going on cash benefits because that is what it sounds like to me. But I would also like to say that we actually have some really positive employment figures at the moment, employment is increasing. And I hope there are as many people as possible who are actually going to work on this cash-aid ceiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209155007	Thank you. No one else has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Hans Andersen from the Left, come closer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209155026	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing today is the implementation of the agreement on a new cash aid ceiling. It is an agreement concluded between the government, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party. We need to secure a Denmark where it always pays to work; a Denmark where there is a significantly greater gain by taking a job rather than being on cash benefits. Everyone must contribute to the common welfare and working community, and this is what we are marking today with this bill. It is proposed that a number of initiatives should be put in place to ensure that it is worthwhile working for beneficiaries of integration benefits, educational assistance and cash assistance. Firstly, it is proposed to introduce a new ceiling on cash benefits. The new ceiling applies to the recipients of cash benefits, educational assistance and integration benefit. If the total amount of benefit exceeds the ceiling, special aid and housing aid will be reduced. No one can have the total benefit reduced by more than the sum of special support and housing support, and thus the cash benefits or child-related benefits are not reduced. We are thus creating an increased incentive to continue and pay more to take all kinds of jobs. Secondly, the draft law introduces a stricter availability requirement whereby the 225-hour rule is reinstated. Thirdly, the draft law proposes that entitlement to leave should be changed from five to four weeks' leave with cash benefits, with a maximum duration of two weeks. It is a fact that the number of cash benefits recipients has been increasing over the last few years. The ceiling on cash benefits is one of the keys to ensuring that it is actually worth changing the cash benefits, also with a job where the salary is at the low end. We must remember that cash aid is only a temporary solution, and with the cash aid, as it is today, we must just say that it is just as rewarding to be on cash aid as to take up a job. We must do away with that, and that is why we are standing here today. As I have said, the ceiling on cash benefits is absolutely essential for there to be a difference between going to work and being on cash benefits. It's a matter of fairness. It should not be as advantageous to be on cash benefits as to go to work, and there are hard-working Danes who have a job and who go to work every day and make contributions to our common welfare. More people must be actively available for the labour market, and with today's bill, we ensure that more people actually get to work and we ensure that there is an incentive to take a job. Against this background, the Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209155333	There are four who have asked for brief comments. The first is sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209155339	Thank you. The rapporteur continues in the same vein as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. It has to pay to work. It's almost like a priest was giving a sermon. But at the same time, it's a confession case. It is clear from the proposal that you do not even believe what you say. You only expect 700 people to get to work, despite bothering and cutting down on some 30,000 people. So now we can't just conclude that all this talk about how it should pay to work is just a bad excuse to cut back on people who already have a hard time to make sure that there can be some tax relief for the 10%. Best placed in this society, for example. Such as Mr. Hans Andersen and myself?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209155432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209155434	We would like to discuss the principle of fairness, including with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, i.e. whether it is not reasonable that there is a difference between what you have and what you have left every month when you go to work, compared to when you are on cash benefits. Here there is a proposal for a cash aid ceiling to ensure that there is actually a financial gain, also by taking a job of DKK 17 700, which is what you can get as a shop assistant if you like. is in a shop here in Copenhagen. There must be an incentive to do so. And it is true that the proposal and the agreement we have made here give some 700 extra jobs. I think it's a conservative estimate. In fact, I believe that there will be more people coming into work once the ceiling for cash benefits has been implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209155527	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209155528	If you believe it, but the minister obviously doesn't believe it. Why, then, has the rapporteur not convinced the Minister that there should be 7.000 or another figure of imagination? I would like to ask the rapporteur what we should use that sense of fairness for. Now it's kind of coming out. It's kind of a moral question. Is it all the low-paid we have in this country that should be a little happier to be low-paid because there are some who feel much, much worse than themselves? I guess that's what it's all about when it comes down to it. For then it may well be that those who are low paid are even willing to go down even more in wages. Because that's what happens when you lower social benefits. The economic wise men agree with that. So I guess there's two purposes to this bill. One is to provide tax relief for people like us. And the other thing is getting your payroll down in this country. Should we not be honest about what this is really about?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209155624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209155625	The left went to the elections for a dual reform, which would consist of two elements. One is a ceiling on cash benefits, and the other is that we reduce taxes on those who have the lowest incomes. This is part one. It is a question of ensuring that it is more profitable to work, even if you come from cash benefits. That condition is not there today. That's what we're creating with the cash aid ceiling. And so it is true that the money that comes from the fact that we are setting a ceiling for cash aid must go to put the tax down at work, and I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209155701	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209155703	This is actually a very easy question I would like to put to the rapporteur: can the rapporteur confirm that with Mr Van der Klaauw's report there is no need for this? Lars Løkke Rasmussen as prime minister, then the last time he was prime minister, and not this time ^ did the development go the wrong way? We got under Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's government from 2009 to 2011 26,000 more people, who according to his understanding have a weak financial incentive to work. Can the rapporteur confirm that figure?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209155728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209155729	Now I do not know where the rapporteur gets that figure. However, the period 2009-2011 was marked by the fact that we had a situation where it did not exactly go very fast in Denmark, so more people came on cash benefits. However, I also note that from 2011 to 2015 there have been significant increases in cash benefits. And that's why we need to change this. That is why we are now creating a ceiling on cash benefits which will ensure that work pays more and that cash benefits are replaced with a job. That's what we need to get growth and prosperity in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209155805	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209155806	The next question is: Right now, after the Social Democratic led government has actually done something about this in connection with the tax reform, nine out of ten Danes get more than DKr 2 000. extra after tax, if they actually take a job. Paragraph 1: Can the rapporteur confirm this? Paragraph 2: Does the rapporteur think that DKr 2 000? Is it enough? I will not mention anything about shoes or the fact that it is not very much money. Does the rapporteur think that DKr 2 000? Does it make sense to take a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209155840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209155841	As I recall, Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen's question is that you take a job for DKK 20,000, which is not good enough. We also have to ensure that it is worthwhile to work if you take a job to DKK 17,700, because not all people can change the cash benefits with a job of DKK 20,000. We must ensure that working always pays off. That is why we are introducing the ceiling on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209155910	Sir. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209155920	Thank you very much. I've tried to get an answer to this before, among other things. I have a question to put to the Minister, but it may be that the rapporteur of the Left can help me. Is it aware that this modern cash aid ceiling hits single parents the hardest? Well, I can again take as an example from the Ministry of Employment's fact sheet that a single breadwinner with three children gets DKK 3,500. less it is called an increase in employment benefit, but that is actually what a single parent with three children gets less. And no matter how you talk about it, it is not a party, as it is now, to be a single parent on cash benefits with three children, but now you make it even harder for both adults and children. For a single person without children there is no difference, for a married couple without children is the difference 1.500, but those hit hardest are children's families, single parents who do not already have an easy family situation. Is that a conscious choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160019	I understand the alternative rapporteur is looking at the fact sheet about the prize by taking a job. It has nothing to do with what the people in question lose in any special housing support, so this is simply about how much the prize will be by taking a job to DKK 17,700. a month. And it is true that it is getting considerably bigger with the cash benefits ceiling ^ that is the whole purpose of the bill, and I welcome that, and I look forward to it being implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160051	Sir. Nikolai Amstrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160053	I'd like to look a little further in terms of how it's structured. In other words, subsidies have been excluded for day-care and for child and young people's benefits and family allowances, and this is, as far as I can understand, not to hit families with children hard, but housing subsidies are not excluded, even though housing subsidies depend to a large extent on the number of children. If you had really wanted to avoid hitting families with children, you would have been able to exempt housing subsidies. Would it not have been the right thing to do if one had wanted to avoid hitting children's families extra hard?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160126	What is being reduced as a result of hitting the ceiling on cash benefits is special support and housing support. We stand by the fact that you have your cash aid, and we're not gonna cut that with this bill. We stand by that. Then that is the reduction that is taking place, and that is in relation to special aid and housing aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160146	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160151	I think that some of the more than a hundred thousand Danes who have suffered unemployment in the last year and who are watching this debate have to ask themselves: what kind of world is it in there at Christiansborg? So we hear the rapporteur stand and say that it must be worthwhile to work and that today it is just as rewarding to be on cash benefits as to take a job. Does the rapporteur know the rules, does the rapporteur know the conditions under which the unemployed are living? After all, you have to be available for the labour market to receive cash benefits. You'll be sent to utility jobs. The rapporteur himself has helped to introduce the reform. That means you have to work 37 hours a week for your cash benefits. You're not saving up for retirement. You can't have a fortune. You must be available for meetings as soon as you are called. Working in Denmark is so worthwhile, and the people who go out of work do not want anything else. The only problem is that there's no jobs. Can the rapporteur confirm that no one in Denmark can choose to go unemployed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160256	I am fully aware that the rules resulting from, among other things, the rules. A reform of the social security system, which is also part of the Left, imposes stricter requirements on what to do when you are on cash benefits. But that doesn't change the fact that today's payoff is too small by changing the cash benefits with a job and a job where we start with you getting 17,700 DKK. a month. The prize is simply too small. And that is why we have implemented and will implement a cash aid ceiling. We simply need to ensure that there is a greater difference between being on cash aid and taking a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160332	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160334	Well again: the rapporteur himself is in an incredibly privileged situation as a member of parliament with a salary that is not one, two, three, four or five, but six times as high as that of a single recipient of cash aid. If you get a job, you save your pension. If you get a job, you save the opportunity to get on unemployment benefits. You get colleagues, you get invited to Christmas lunch. There are lots of incentives that you just choose to close your eyes to. You focus on this distance because you want to make it more expensive for the Danes to lose their jobs. Because that's the consequence of this, that for low-paid Danes it will be more expensive and more dangerous to lose their jobs in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160415	I think that every time Enhedslisten has a bad case, Enhedslisten begins to include the salaries or remuneration of the members of parliament. I just think that should be kept out of this debate. This is about whether there should be reasonableness in the way we handle and organize our society. And we say that we think there should be a difference between being on cash benefits and taking a job, also taking a job that is paid with DKK 17 700, which is the minimum wage you get if you are in a shop at Strøget in Copenhagen. There has to be a difference between getting up in the morning and doing your job and being on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160448	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160452	Thank you. The Economic Council considers that one of the many social consequences of the ceiling on cash benefits will be that in the long term we will have a lower wage level in Denmark. Can the rapporteur confirm that the Left agrees with the opinion of the Economic Council on this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160511	I think that, in general terms, wages in Denmark will rise if we achieve the growth we all want. If we create the framework that makes companies want to invest in Denmark, then we believe that more people are going to work and that overall growth is increasing in Denmark. We're preoccupied with that. But it is also about people who want to take the jobs that are there and therefore among other things. the ceiling on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160540	Mrs. Anne Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160542	So can the rapporteur deny that the Left wants a lower salary level in Denmark, as several of the rapporteurs' colleagues have said in the past, so that is where the Left wants us to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160558-2	I do not know which rapporteurs the Left is referring to. As far as I know, both the Left and the Socialists are concerned that the issue of wages is dealt with in a completely different place from that of the Assembly, and I hope that this will continue to be the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160615	Then it is Mrs Malou Lunderød, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160619	Thank you. Now I understand from the rapporteur that the idea of this cash aid ceiling is to get more people into work. I think that is a commendable idea, which I can easily support. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that the ceiling on cash benefits increases employment by 700 people and to ask whether the rapporteur believes that 700 people are an ambitious and satisfactory result of this ceiling on cash benefits. Is it worth the price in return for even more homeless and poor in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160647	It is true that the assessment is that this creates the opportunity for 700 more people to get to work. That is absolutely correct. Moreover, it creates the reasonableness that is needed, so there is a difference between being on cash benefits and being in work, including in work for a relatively low wage.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160706	Mrs. Malou Wonderful.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160707	Thank you. Then I'd like to stick with this fairly. Does the rapporteur also think that it is reasonable that these many thousands of children in Denmark should also be affected by the ceiling on cash benefits? And what significance does the rapporteur think it will have for the social mobility of these children who are going to grow up in this society? I believe that social mobility is very important for us to continue to have a growing welfare society. So I would like to ask: what does this mean for the social mobility of these children?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160733	I look forward to more children having parents who actually go to work and not seeing parents on cash benefits for years. So the goal is for more people to get to work. The best role model we can have for our children is that there is something to stand up for, namely a job. So that 700 more, after this bill is passed, gets to work in the future, is really good.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160803	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160805	Thank you. In fact, we have been discussing this for years now, even when the previous government put forward the proposal to reduce benefits. When we had government power, we lifted it all again, and now we are discussing it again. I find it very, very difficult to understand what is actually behind what the rapporteur and the government are doing here. The rapporteur keeps saying that one can take a job and work must pay off. But is it not the case that there are two conditions that must be met? Firstly, there must be a job out there, and secondly, one must be able to work. Can the rapporteur not confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160852	There's a job to search. I think that in the middle of January there were actually 20,000 jobs available at Jobnet. So there's a job. Many of the cash benefits we work with and which the municipalities work hard to get to work can also go to work. So it's about making that match between the available jobs and the cash benefits recipients. Each individual must take the initiative and, of course, the job centres must help.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160920	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209160922	I do not at all disagree with the fact that the individual also has a share of responsibility, as does the job centre, for getting started. The problem here is just that three-quarters of those who are on cash benefits today are judged not to be able to work. They're gonna get hit by this law. Three quarters are unable to work. How many of the 20 000 jobs mentioned by the rapporteur are real for people who have no education? That is the second issue here. Although the last quarter of those on cash benefits would be able to work, they are not able to contest the jobs that are actually available. So where are they gonna turn? It's only gonna get hit by this. They're only getting poorer. It's gonna be the families and the kids that get hit by it. There is nothing to suggest that these can get to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161008	I think it is the case today that, in this way, both activity-ready, labour market-ready and non-activity-ready get to work. All groups are, in fact, also getting to work as it is now. Then there are some who need a little more support at first, and others go directly into jobs. It's kind of happening. I would just like to point out that there are actually 20,000 job vacancies that can be applied for. And then there are all the jobs that today become obsessed with people coming from Eastern Europe. It's unskilled jobs. After all, they should be filled forward-looking also by people who are currently on cash aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161044	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161049	It is very clear that this is an extremely bad law which is being passed here in the Folketing. We get here that there are 700 people who can look forward to them getting a job by this change in the cash benefits ceiling. What, then, is the residual problem? If you look at BL's hearing answer, you see that there is therefore a prospect that there are 14 000 families who cannot afford to live in the accommodation they now have. That means that if we just say that there are 700 of those who are lucky to get a job, then we have 13,300 who have to find a cheaper accommodation to live in if they are not to be put out of their homes. I think that is very serious. I think the heart of this is where the poor should move while they are looking for the jobs that are a little hard to get for them. I would like to hear the rapporteur of the Left in this calculated reality where it is that these 13 000 people have to find a cheap accommodation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161151	As far as I am aware, there are, in fact, approx. 500,000 rentals, where you pay less than 5,000 kroner. a month. So there are actually cheap rentals present throughout Denmark. And it is so that if you are a single provider of cash benefits, even with the ceiling on cash benefits, you have an amount of available after tax and housing of DKK 12,800. I think that is a reasonable amount of money. I think you can live for that for a temporary period.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161231	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161233	It is very gratifying that the Left highlights the general housing and highlights the housing that has a reasonable rent. I live in one of those apartments myself. I'm not going to move. So it's not an option for one of these poor people to move into that apartment. It has to be said that the dwellings with the lowest rent are those in which people stay. Well, that's obvious. So the solution to this is to build more common homes. That is quite correct. I would like to know whether the rapporteur thinks that building more general housing is the solution in the current situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161305	I think I said 500,000 rentals. It is both in the private sector and in the general sector. There's 500,000 rents worth less than 5,000 kroner. a month. That's an option. I am quite sure that already there are cash benefits recipients living in such low-cost housing. So that's the situation. I would just like to point out that if you are a single parent and covered by the ceiling on cash benefits from 1 October 2016, you still have a reasonable amount of available money.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161343	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161345	Thank you. I think that in the discussion of these laws and with the whole rhetoric of the bill, the Left sometimes makes it sound as if unemployment is the fault of the unemployed. This is due to the laziness of the unemployed. So I would like to ask a fundamental question: does the rapporteur believe that unemployment is due to the fact that people do not want to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161412	I think most people would like to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161419	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161421	Thank you. I assume that the rapporteur thereby recognises the existence of unemployment. How many people are calculating the rapporteur who would be unemployed in our society right now if all jobs were filled? How many will remain unemployed, no matter how much you put them in help, and no matter how much work they seek?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161441	I think that after this debate we must sit down and discuss how to match the available jobs and the available people we have in Denmark. It is true that today there are both benefit recipients and cash benefits recipients, and together it represents a larger number than the 20,000 job vacancies posted on Jobnet. But there are 750,000 jobs that are filled every year in Denmark, so there are quite a lot of jobs that the unemployed can apply for every year.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161517	Thank you. Then it's mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161522	As you know, the ceiling on cash benefits and the bill we are discussing are part of the government's job reform. Now a lot can be said about the current government, but it has had to postpone a number of things, pushing challenges ahead. Phase 1 of the job reform is not one of those things, but I am just a little puzzled that you are so busy implementing the cash benefits ceiling, since it is now clear to everyone that it is not necessarily the case that there is an immediate interest in the Danish People's Party too to carry out the second part of the job reform after the summer break. Then the rapporteur can only say a few words about why in the world we are really going to rush through this so much? Why is it that we are not just waiting for the first part of the job reform, since a tax reform seems to be something that has relatively long prospects?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161627	Now I do not know what the Socialist rapporteur is trying to speculate about in relation to a political process which has not yet been completed. The government is preoccupied with delivering results. Here we provide a ceiling on cash benefits that will ensure that work pays more. We say that this is the first part of a job reform. The second part will come later, where we will put the treasure down to work. We look forward to that, hopefully, in cooperation with the Socialists, we will also be able to make an agreement in the autumn. And that's kind of the road map. Then I think that right now it is very sensible and timely that we should sort out the refugee situation and sort out how to deal with it before we start the second part of a job reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161719	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161721	I'm dealing with it, like, uh... The chairman of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, has said that he believes that tax reform should not be carried out in this autumn, but that it should be postponed further. And then I'll deal with what's in the government base. The government base states that the second phase of job reform, i.e. the tax part, will fall in spring 2016, and it is quite clear that this will not happen. So what's the rush? Why don't you wait to do this part? I mean, it'd be best to drop it completely, but why is it that you're so busy implementing this part? I assume that the rapporteur can confirm that there is coherence and that a precondition is that phase 2 of the job reform is carried out, otherwise phase 1 of the job reform does not make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161806	Our plan is still gone to complete phase 2 of job reform. We just think that we should be able to deal with the refugee situation and that we should deal with it first, before we embark on phase 2 of the job reform, where our ambition is to reduce the tax to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161823	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161826	Thank you. Well, I was very inspired by the rapporteur's report on the many available public housing and all the many available cheap housing in Denmark. Therefore, I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur cannot confirm that the National Association of Municipalities and a whole series of mayors, including many from the Left, have so much wanted to see more cheap housing built, including public housing in Denmark, among others. Because refugees are now coming in who need it and the municipalities lack general housing at a low price.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161904-2	It is quite true that KL has requested cheap housing. If I told you they were available, I'll correct it. I do not have any information as to whether they are available; I just find that there are 500,000 of them for a rent below 5,000 kroner. a month. I do not know if the unemployed, but I know that, under the current rules, the municipalities will have access to one in four of them if they become unemployed, and that is why I say that it is actually possible to still get a low-cost accommodation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161938	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209161940	Well, it isn't actually if they're not available. I would therefore just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that there is a need for significantly more cheap housing in Denmark, both because there are refugees who are receiving very low benefits and because the government is now introducing a ceiling on cash aid, which will result in more people in need of a much cheaper housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209162002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209162003	I am aware of and have also heard about the proposals by the Radicals on how more housing could be built in Denmark. And we have a challenge... I admit it... in how we manage to get more housing for both refugees, but also for cash help recipients or others who have a low wage income and want to live in a cheaper accommodation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209162030	Thank you. Mrs Yildiz Akdogan, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209162035	Thank you. I was somewhat provoked by the rapporteur's response to all these many low-cost accommodations. 500,000 were said, but we do not know how many of them are unemployed, nor do we really have a solution or any concrete answers to what can be done in this area. I am thinking, for example. on a family where one has a mental illness. This family needs more than stability and tranquillity to get by, because it's not just the individual, it's the whole family. What is the rapporteur's answer to that? It's that there's 500,000 homes all over the country and you can just move. Is that the answer from the Left? Is this how you get more people into work, i.e. by forcing psychologically vulnerable people to move around the country and hoping that they can find a cheap accommodation and perhaps a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209162129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209162131	If you are mentally vulnerable and have problems, I think you should in a process of resource development and clarify how to move forward. It may be that you have to take early retirement; it may be that you have to take a flexible job. After all, it is not appropriate to spend years on cash benefits. So there I think there is a job to be done, both for the individual and for the job center.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209162200	Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209162201	Thank you. But what is the rapporteur's concrete answer to what can be done for these vulnerable people? Well, it's fine that they have to go through a process, but then when you ask the various organizations who know something about this, they say this cash benefits ceiling doesn't make it easier for them to get to work. And now the rapporteur also wants them to move around the whole country in order to find a cheap accommodation. There are no cheap accommodations for them if they risk being thrown out and should leave house and home. There is also no possibility of getting a job. They become even more stressed, and children become even more affected. What is the rapporteur's solution to the problems of such mentally vulnerable families?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209162243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209162245	This is going to be a bit of a repetition, because I am listening to the fact that it is a process of resources that could be the answer to that problem. And then I must point out that, for example, the City of Copenhagen also has the possibility of having one in four vacant dwellings made available by the housing organizations, which they can use for people who are looking for a cheaper accommodation than they currently have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209162310	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209162325	The bill has been met with the strongest possible criticism. The Children's Council, the trade union movement, the Danish Social Advisor Association, Danish Handicap Organisations, the Housing Society's Landsforening and many, many more. Yes, even the National Association of Municipalities warns against adopting this bill. The consultation responses together draw a frightening picture of a legislative proposal that is determined to impoverish thousands of people, not least children's families. The consequences will be social exclusion, major social problems and more homeless people. After all, we have been there before, because the previous ceiling on cash benefits had the same consequences and the previous 225-hour rule. With what is being proposed here, it is only getting much worse because the rules are much tougher and because the labour market has become even less inclusive than it was in the '00s. The proposal is also a major blow to long-term sickness, people with disabilities and mental illnesses who are on cash benefits. They are affected by both the ceiling and the 225-hour rule. Only if the municipality considers that they are severely handicapped or that their ability to work is very limited can they be exempted. This is completely insane. We are talking about people that the municipalities themselves have assessed are neither job nor education-ready, but now we want these people to be required to get an ordinary job anyway, otherwise they will be severely punished financially. It is then excused that the municipalities can, of course, exempt those who have serious health problems. So we do not have good experiences with the municipalities doing so. One can just look at the many cases where seriously ill people are forced into work tests and flexible jobs of a few minutes' duration, so taking the bed to work has become the new parole of social services. And this is mostly contrary to the recommendations of specialists. This chasing of the unemployed and sick people is only getting worse from 1 January this year, when the state reimbursement to the social benefits of the municipalities is drastically reduced after 1 year of unemployment and when the government's negative growth in the municipalities passes through. And where are the companies and jobs that will receive these people when they are satisfied with the feeling that it is worthwhile to work? Like they didn't know in advance. Where are the cheap dwellings in which these people are to live when they have been driven out of the good social housing they have so far been able to live in because they have received full housing support and special housing support? The government and the conciliation parties cannot answer that for the simple reason that these jobs and these homes do not exist, at least not to the extent that they are at all equal to the many thousands that are now going to be reduced in benefits. The government claims it's all about getting more people into work, but it doesn't believe that. The government expects only 700 more people to work while, according to the government's own figures, about 30,000 people are affected by these rules. And the work thing isn't what it's all about. The short of the long ones is that this bill is a serious and cynical austerity exercise, which is intended to serve two purposes: it must provide money for relief in the top tax, as stated in the government programme, and push down the level of social benefits even further, in anticipation of the minimum wage coming down. That is why it is not a modern cash aid ceiling either. It is old-fashioned, raw and dirty class struggle initiated to benefit the 10 per cent. I would like to say a few words about the situation in the Middle East. And to turn the heel around in the eye of those you have just kicked down, you will even manage it in a way that makes it even harder for the benefit recipients to check if they have now also received the right benefits. It is technique, but read about it in the consultation answer from Payout Denmark. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has been so sensitive that a particularly harsh criticism is being made against the Danish People's Party. But I guess it's no wonder. The Danish People's Party holds the fate of these people in their hands. The Danish People's Party has the power to prevent this inhuman and antisocial legislation. The Danish People's Party has the opportunity to live just a little bit up to the image of itself as the protector of the weak and exposed, which they want to show. And if you don't want to, you have to stand for gunshots. But it is obviously more important to help the Prime Minister through tax cuts and welfare cuts and all the other ills that this government is doing. You just have to say, "Enjoy." Enhedslisten votes against.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209162815	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209162838	Thank you so much. With this bill, we are reintroducing the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, and we are reducing the right to vacation for cash benefits recipients from 5 to 4 weeks. The ceiling therefore limits the overall amount of cash benefits, special aid and housing aid. This is an extremely sensible proposal. 20% of the population in Denmark is on transfer income. It is a much greater share than in other highly developed welfare societies, a much greater share than what we see in our neighbouring countries. At the same time, we also have cash aid that is much higher than what we see in our neighbouring countries. The Rockwool Foundation has previously calculated that cash benefits in Denmark are 40-60 per cent. above the level in our neighbouring countries and it is therefore worth noting when correcting for differences in prices. Cash benefits will also be higher in Denmark in the future than they are in our neighbouring countries. I think there are several good reasons why a ceiling on these benefits is now being set. Firstly, in our view, it is an expression of the fact that the wage agreements concluded by the social partners are actually respected. It cannot be the case that the social partners say that we now agree on a wage or salary and then we say in here: it may well be that we have agreed a minimum wage, but we think that you should be able to get as much in cash as you can by taking a job for a salary that the Danish trade union movement has agreed to. It just doesn't add up. Therefore, there are also problems of availability in the Danish cash assistance system. When you ask the cash benefits recipients themselves, it is a quarter • 25%. So you can talk about availability rules and the fact that you can't get cash benefits if you don't want to take a job or you can't get cash benefits from now on and for all eternity. But what works is that there are some basic economic incentives to take a job. Of course, that's the way it's supposed to be. It must of course be the case that there is a difference between being in work and being on cash benefits. I just have to say that with this ceiling, there will also be problems in the cash benefits system. It will still be the case that, for some family types of cash benefits, what is called the net compensation rate in relation to being on cash benefits will be as high as 92 per cent. There will still be a slight difference. We think that should have been addressed in this deal. We would have liked to have gone a little further, but we are pleased that we actually got the country an agreement that became more ambitious than the government itself had proposed. Because what you are doing here is, of course, starting from the minimum wage, and then you say that people on cash benefits should not be able to get more than 80% as a starting point. of what they can get if they take a job for a salary that the trade union movement in Denmark and employers have approved of. The government had chosen to base itself on a salary of DKK 18,500. In fact, we managed to ensure that it was DKK 17,700, just as it is in the benefit system, so a parallelity was created between the two systems. We think this is sensible and it is a result with which we are well satisfied. This agreement therefore takes steps in the right direction, in relation to taking a job, that there must of course be a difference between whether you are on cash or working in a low-wage job. In conclusion, before it lands on the question of how terrible this is, when you start from what you actually have to live for on cash benefits, it will be the case that this single mother with two children on cash benefits, after rent, tax, heating, electricity and day care is paid, will have DKK 10,200. to live for a month. You can live for that, and we can be familiar with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209163354	Thank you. The first question is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209163359	Thank you. I have a question. The Rockwool Foundation and the economic wise men say that if you lower cash aid so that it pays better to work, then wages will also follow down. I am sure that will make the rapporteur lick his mouth because the rapporteur thinks it is right, but does the rapporteur agree with the statement made by the economic wise men, so that with this the salary will go down?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209163427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209163430	As you know, wages in Denmark are agreed by the social partners, and if, for example, they are agreed by the social partners. If you can get 3F on a pay cut, the salary will go down. I don't know if that's realistic. But I would like to admit that I think it would be good if there were an extra step in Denmark, because the truth is that the level of transfer income in Denmark prevents many people from being able to participate in the labour market, because you have to be extremely productive in Denmark. Your labour force must be at least 110 kroner. It is worthwhile to enter the labour market. And if you cannot do that, you will be cut off from participating in the labour market. That is why I think that the model we have in Denmark is, from a social point of view, a tough model. That's why I'd like an extra step to come. This does not mean that those who are already on the labour market are going down in wages. It is an expression of the fact that some people are now being given the opportunity to enter the labour market, and I think that is actually going to be very, very good and very much needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209163527	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209163529	If the Rockwool Foundation and the economic wise men are right that in the long run wages will fall, as the rapporteur also hopes, are we not just as far away? For then the salary again comes quite down in relation to the cash aid ceiling, and then we again have the Left and the Danish People's Party standing and saying that it is not worth working and then we have to put the cash aid down even further. Isn't that just the situation we want to face?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209163555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209163556	No, I don't think that's the way it is. I think there is a broad consensus in the Folketing that we should have a safety net in Denmark. But the safety net should not be such as to prevent people from being involved and who, if they had been born in all sorts of highly developed welfare societies, would actually have taken part in the labour market; then they would have got their feet inside. And in a dynamic labour market like the Danish one, it is important that you can get your foot inside, because then you can actually move. But in Denmark there are a great many people who are being locked in the system, and I do not think we can be familiar with that. That is why I do not think that the system we now have is an expression of a balance between a safety net and that it must also pay off and respond to being in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209163646	The next question is Mr. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209163653	I would like to ask more about some of the consequences of the bill. In the consultation answers both BL and Children's Terms indicate that about 14,000 families will have difficulty in maintaining their accommodation, and it should be more than uncommonly weird if not some of these 14,000 ended up being put out and actually were not able to find a new accommodation within their limits. What kind of excuse is the rapporteur willing to accept in order to get 600 people to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209163733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209163735	I'm not buying the premise. I do not do that because to make the coalition that the lower cash aid should automatically lead to more homeless people is, to the best of my knowledge, not right. One example: a few years ago the whole Employment Committee was in New Zealand. They have lower benefits in New Zealand, but they also have fewer homeless people. So this is an example of the fact that there are plenty of other parameters that play a role in combating homelessness. I believe that this is a bad idea in combating homelessness by having very, very high benefits, which will then help to maintain much more people outside the labour market with all that that entails, with negative social consequences too, for children.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209163824	Sir. Nikolai Amstrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209163826	Now, of course, we are talking here about cutting the benefits from one day to the next for some people who have planned on the basis of a future situation. But if it happens that there will be some homeless people out of this, is it so that you can see it as that the homeless really have some of the greatest incentive to get to work, as it will improve their social situation in the best way possible? So, because they have a greater incentive, do they also have a better chance of getting to work, or could it be imagined that the reverse was the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209163908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209163910	I think that is a completely wrong premise to support. What is important, in our view, in order to combat homelessness is, of course, that people in the municipalities, for example. will be far better at focusing resources on those who have other problems than just missing a job. They have tools out there, for example. can make sure that the rent is paid before other things, and that can prevent homelessness. Such tools should be used much more in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209163948	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209163951	The Liberal Alliance rapporteur paints a picture that if the benefits are high, then people in a country do not want to work, and that is why Denmark is hopelessly behind. But if we look beyond Europe, that is not the context. Then we can actually see that the countries with the highest levels of benefits are also the countries with the highest levels of employment and the lowest levels of unemployment. This is one of these examples of how the Liberal Alliance is closing its eyes to reality. They look down in their liberalist economic books and do not relate to what reality looks like. A few years ago, before the cash benefits were deregulated, 94 per cent could be spent. of the recipients of cash benefits earning DKr 2,000. more by getting to work. It is, of course, a significant increase in wages if you are on cash benefits, and here we ignore the fact that you also earn pensions and allowances, that you have to have a fortune, that you have to have a summer house and a car and all the other benefits that result from being in work. There will always be a tiny group for whom it doesn't pay to work. We can choose to say that we have to put down the cash aid even further, because it must also pay to take a 20-hour part-time job or a 10-hour part-time job. But I would like the rapporteur to confirm that the result of this will be that because we have to solve a tiny problem, it will be more expensive for all of us when we are hit by unemployment; falling down to unemployment is getting deeper and deeper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209164113	Sir. Pelle Dragsted tends to speak too long in relation to the measured time. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209164120	I would first like to say to the question of whether the countries with high benefits also have the lowest unemployment rate, that it all depends on how you look at it. As I said earlier, 20%. of the population in Denmark on transfer income. After all, there is a large proportion of those who do not even count in unemployment statistics because they do not have to be available for the labour market. It is a much higher proportion than in other countries. And that's part of it, because the thing is that if some of these citizens had been born in other highly developed welfare societies, they would have been part of the labour market; they would not have been on transfer income. So this is no small problem. We spend a much greater share of our wealth on paying out transfers than in other countries. Is that then an expression that Mr. Pelle Dragsted believes that the Danes are more ill and less able to work and that the Danish labour market is more raw than the labour market in e.g. Germany? Actually, I don't think so, sir. Pelle Dragsted thinks.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209164224	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209164225	Nah, and the reason is much simpler; it is that we in Denmark have chosen that some of those who are outside the labour market finance and support collectively, where in other countries they choose to do so in families, for example. But what is interesting is that our employment, the proportion of people in Denmark of working age working, is high compared to other countries. Well, that's the reality, I'd like to say to Mr. Knox. Joachim B. Olsen. But let me turn to something else, and I'll try to do it in 10 seconds. This is in line with what the rapporteur said earlier. Is the price in terms of people who can no longer pay their rent and who may go on the street, families with children, worth paying with the small effect that is according to the bill itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209164303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209164304	There may be a lot of people here. And I would like to be honest and say that I do not think it is a human right, for example. to live at a high rent inside Copenhagen when you are on cash benefits. I have visited cash aid recipients living in Copenhagen for a high rent, and I do not necessarily think that is fair. It may be that there are people on cash benefits who have to move to a cheaper apartment. I think that is quite reasonable; there are many other people who are trying to make an effort to nourish them. And given that we will continue to have the world's probably highest cash aid, I think that is a reasonable priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209164346	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209164354	Thank you. I would like to return to the discussion which Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen raised the question of the link between social benefits, in this case the lowest social benefit, namely cash benefits, and wage developments, or rather the wage settlement. All economists agree that there is a close link between the lowest social benefit and the minimum wage. I see that the rapporteur is nodding. Well, then, the consequence must be that every time we manage to press down the lowest social benefits and pay goes down, because it has to pay to work, the Liberal Alliance and probably all the other colleagues in the blue bloc will come and say: now we have to put the social benefits, the cash benefits, even further down, because it has to pay to work. Isn't it true that that's the mechanics?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209164442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209164442-2	It is quite true that there is the mechanics that transfers lay a bottom for wages. And so it is also true that it would be possible to imagine if the social partners, who agree the wage, could agree that the wage levels would then fall. It is just important to consider that it is not an expression of the fact that everyone else in all sorts of other areas where wages are agreed will go down. It is an expression of the fact that there is an extra step, and I simply do not understand the left. I simply do not understand that one can accept that such a large proportion of the population has no relationship at all with the labour market and is outside. In fact, I thought it was important for a genuine socialist that the workers had a relationship with the means of production. We have failed there in Denmark because so many people do not. So for me, as I see it, it will only be positive if some of those who today passively receive a benefit, the world's highest cash aid, exchanged that income for a job and got their feet on the labour market, got those colleagues to join that Christmas party, got into that social community that a workplace is also got their foot inside instead of being shut out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209164550	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209164552	Thank you. Unlike Mr. Joachim B. Olsen and all the bourgeois economists and all sorts of other people, we are not going to try to convince people that there should be more prosperity in a country if we were to make sure that wages were depressed. The entire history of Danish society shows that it is exactly the opposite. But I'd like to get back on track. Would the rapporteur please confirm that if he succeeds in pushing down wages so that there is less difference between the minimum wage and the new cash benefits, then the Liberal Alliance will demand even lower cash benefits? I should like to ask you this: does the Liberal Alliance agree with the Danish Employers' Association's response, which clearly says that there is still a need to adapt the cash aid so that the way to the labour market becomes more open? Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209164642	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209164643	Indeed, I agree with that statement, because it will still be the case that for some family types in the cash benefits system there will be a slight difference between getting to work. There will be what is called a net compensation of 92 per cent. And that is too high, because we know that if there is such a high net level of compensation, there is a considerably lower level of employment. Then I would like to say to the issue of wages that it does not mean that everyone else becomes poorer or has to have a lower salary. The wage has a very close connection with productivity in different industries. So if Enhedslisten tries to draw a picture of lowering cash benefits, for example, all employees get a lower salary, then it is absolutely nonsense.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209164731	Thank you. Then the word is "Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussens, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209164738	Well, I find it interesting to see where we find homes for everyone, and it has to be said that there are 6 000 homeless people who very much want accommodation. I don't think they can pay more than $3,000. a month. Then we will have a number of refugees here in 2016 who will also have a residence, and because of the low integration benefit it will also be difficult for them to pay more than DKK 3,000. Then I understand that this bill has as a prerequisite that you have calculated something based on a rent of DKr 2,800. It has been said earlier in the debate that in Denmark there should be 500,000 homes where the rent is less than 5,000 DKK. It may be true, but at least I think it is important in the ongoing debate that we start from the reality. And if the reality is that some math examples of DKK 2,800 have been used, then I don't think it covers reality. I would like to put a question to the rapporteur, who said earlier that some people may have to move. Where are the poorest people going to move if that is how they get cut in their cash benefits? Where is it in Denmark that they can move to get a cheap accommodation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209164839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209164840	I am glad to be able to correct the rapporteur. It has not been based on a rent of DKr 2,800. When it comes to these family types, i.e. parents, as far as I remember, you start with a rent of DKK 6,200. Or something like that. So it's not a rent of 2,800 kroner. I believe that it is for single people without children that such rents should be taken as a starting point, and the rents they take as a starting point are not something that has been taken out of thin air. This is because you sit and look out in reality and gather information about what the rent level is actually in Denmark and what it is possible to find a rental for. And then you start with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209164928	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209164929	[Sound emission]... a little bit further on on reality. And this bill then suggests that there are 700 people who can get a job if you pass this bill. At the same time, you can read in the hearing from BL that they come to the conclusion that there are about 14,000 families who cannot afford to stay in the accommodation they now have. So if there are 700 of those who are lucky to find a job, then we have 13,300 families to find a cheap accommodation if they are not to be put out. Where does the rapporteur think we should find the 13,300 cheap housing for these people?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209165003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209165004	Firstly, I would like to say that I am sure that the employment effect will be greater than 700. The former government, when it abolished the cash benefits ceiling, estimated that it reduced employment by between 2,500 and 3,000. I believe that this is a very, very conservative estimate, and I do not believe that there are 14 000 people who will be without housing either. I said frankly that it may well be that some people have to find cheaper accommodation, and I also think it is quite fair to do so, given that we will still have probably the highest cash assistance in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209165046	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209165110	Today we are discussing a bill which means the introduction of a so-called modern cash aid ceiling, which will mean that many people will have reduced their cash benefits, a 225-hour rule, which means that they will have to work 225 hours a year in order not to be reduced in help, and the law also takes a week's holiday from cash benefits recipients. It is written directly in the bill that it will strengthen people's incentives to take all types of jobs. So the idea is that cash benefits recipients should be motivated to find work instead of being on cash benefits. In the alternative, we believe that that effect will be really, really limited. You don't get any more people into work by making people poorer. The Rockwool Foundation's evaluation of cash benefits for the last 25 years concludes that there is little evidence to say that lower cash benefits will get cash benefits recipients into work. The large Norwegian study, which measures the desire to work in 18 countries, shows that the desire for work is greatest in those countries where there are the highest welfare benefits. The new report, which came from the Rockwool Foundation on Monday, shows that people will virtually no longer work, even if they receive tax relief. However, when the government lowers cash aid for thousands of Danes, we see it as a saving exercise, a saving exercise that hits families with children, single parents who hit the sick, disabled, vulnerable, many of those who probably have an income below the poverty limit that the government has abolished. We believe that this is an austerity exercise which downgrades the recipients of cash benefits. You kick down in society and make it look as if unemployment is the fault of the unemployed and unemployment is because people do not want to work. It also sends a signal to the rest of society, which exempts others from the responsibility of ensuring that we create relevant work for people who are within their range and their professional opportunities. The ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the reduction of holidays mean that once again the unemployed have to be chased around for jobs that do not exist and also pay for their cash benefits so that tax relief can be financed, probably also in the top tax. In the alternative, we think it is a bad idea to make the poor poorer. It creates social poverty, which in turn creates both human and economic challenges. The government completely forgets that people want to work. In 2008, there was almost full employment. That's where we were at 1.9%. in unemployment. People want to work when there's work to be done, but the government only has money in its head. It is forgotten that the economic incentive is only one of many incentives to take up work. Incentives are also social community and personal development. People get work to have status in society, to get identity, opportunity to meet friends, opportunity to meet love. Salaries aren't just money. Salaries are many things, and that is one of the reasons why it has only marginal effects on employment when people are made poorer. It is true, of course, that it must be worthwhile to work, but the large-scale slogan of the Left is being misused here, because wages for work are not just money. Our society is no longer in a deep crisis. There are many indicators that the economy is on the way forward. The rapporteur for the DF was delighted here to tell how employment is increasing and yet the government wants to increase the economic inequality by once again taking money from those who have the least. We respect the fact that the government sees this action as right in terms of creating a better society. We respect the fact that one really believes that economic inequality is the prerequisite for everyone to get better, and we ourselves are an entrepreneurial party that is happy for economic growth as long as one remembers the environmental and social bottom line, but in the alternative we do not believe that economic inequality is part of the solution to the challenges that Denmark and the world face today. We believe that economic inequality is part of the problem. That is why we do not support this bill which further distorts economic equality and makes it more difficult for cash benefit recipients to live a dignified life.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209165538	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a question from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209165545	I just want to ask whether the alternative believes that the level of social benefits is of any significance to whether people want to work. Does it have any impact on employment, or is it only all the other things • social association and something to stand up to etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209165602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209165603	I also believe that the level of social benefits is important, but it turns out that it is in those countries where the level of social benefits is highest that people would prefer to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209165614	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209165616	Well, then we've come a little along the way. The alternative therefore recognizes the importance of the level of social benefits. Well, if we decided in here that you could get 500,000 kroner. a year in cash benefits, there would probably be fewer who would work for 250,000 kroner. a year. It's a good thing we've come this far. It's just one of the parameters we can adjust on in here. It is difficult for us to adjust some of the other parameters, but we have similar control over what you get in social benefits. And is it not therefore also necessary and good that one should say, 'Well, you should not be able to get the same thing that you should be able to get when you go to work?'
ParlaMint-DK_20160209165658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209165659	It's not gonna help. That's the wrong screw to screw with. We are talking about 600-700 jobs, possibly a few more, and we are talking about reducing thousands and thousands of people's cash aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209165716	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209165717	I just want to thank you very much for your speech. We fully share in the Enhedslisten Alternative's view of the social consequences of this bill. What I really want to ask is that, fortunately, and hopefully as soon as possible, a time will come after this government, a time when perhaps a little more broad will be seen on how the economy works and on the social consequences of the policy. I just want to know if we can expect in the Enhedslisten to have the alternative at our side when we are going to work for a new government, of course, as one of the first abolishing this terrible law that we are now introducing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209165756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209165757	We are unspeakably looking forward to the time, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted is talking about. Stand here and give concrete promises about how to knit it together and what to roll back in concrete terms is difficult, but I see many things for me, I would like to roll back also this cash aid ceiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209165820	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209165822	It is clear, of course, that we are going to be more parties to sit down together after an election, and then we will have to see how the power ratio has fallen out, and then we will have to find out whether we can agree on a government basis and so on. However, my question is simply whether the alternative, together with the Enhedslisten, will emphasise that we will have the economy restored for some of the groups that are really being put off with this proposal, among other things. The single mothers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209165846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209165850	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209165851	The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209165905	Thank you. Today we are first treating a law from the government with the support of the Danish People's Party to reinstate the cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule. Save the child says in their hearing answer: "Red the child estimates that the ceiling on cash benefits will make everyday life immensely harder for many cash benefits recipients and their children, as well as that the ceiling on cash benefits will have a number of inappropriate consequences for the children. ▪ Better Psychiatry warns in the hearing response about the consequences for the mentally vulnerable and says among other things:: When the cash benefits ceiling is reinstated, the safety net is estimated to be weakened and financial security damaged for a great many people and their families, not least the children. In the long term, it will hit large and small, where even particularly vulnerable children risk losing their social foothold and living under tight conditions. There was a questioner earlier, who also brought up that up to a third of children with mentally ill parents are at risk of having psychosocial problems later in life according to research, and Better Psychiatric also points out that well-being in the home is dependent on the financial and housing security of families. We've done this before. At that time, the ceiling on cash benefits did not significantly increase in employment. The government itself estimates 650 people. On the other hand, families became poor, and children had to grow up in poverty. I think everyone knows that the Radical Left wants many more Danes to work. The very best thing for children's upbringing is that their parents can support themselves and them. The worst thing for children's upbringing is growing up in poverty. But no one can choose to be on cash benefits. If you can work, you have to work. Cash benefits are our safety net in Denmark. The safety net is now rocking the government and the Danish People's Party. This will result in impoverishment and marginalisation and more children growing up in poverty. We do not think this is a proper priority. In fact, we do not believe that we can be familiar with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209170130	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209170151	After all, it is not so difficult to agree that it should be worthwhile to work. It just has nothing to do with this bill. What is it that helps the unemployed get started? It does education, good housing conditions, security and so that there are actually jobs available. Does it help to reduce the situation of cash benefit recipients? A little. According to the government's own calculations, the deterioration in the ratio of between 25,000 and 30,000 people will result in less than 700 in work. It is not in any relationship with each other. SFI - The National Research Centre for Welfare and the Rockwool Foundation has documented that there are no positive effects of previous restrictions on cash benefits. Looking down at the hearing answers, we can see that LO, FTF, Children's Council, Children's Conditions, Save the Children, Volunteers' Council, The Association of Municipal Social, Health and Labour Market Managers in Denmark, Danske Handicap Organisations, SAND - The Homeless Country Organization, the Council for Psychologically Vulnerable on the Labour Market, the Institute for Human Rights, the Danish Social Advisor Association and many more are all very critical of this bill. But isn't anyone positive at all? Yes. I found one: Danish Employers' Association. But they are also the ones who can look forward to wages being pushed down. Why in the world will the bourgeois then implement a law that makes life miserable for so many thousands and with an effect that is virtually impossible to measure? Harassing the many for a modest result. I think it's about something you might call ideologically conditional reflexes. I think I see it's related to Pavlov's dogs. There was this trial with dogs that came to drool as long as they heard a bell. For a while they had heard a bell every time they had a meal. I think it is the case that every time the bourgeois hears a little bell about citizens who are unemployed or recipients of cash benefits or in other ways go unproductive in the opinion of the bourgeois, there is such a sluggish reflex that says something like: Make life as bad as possible for those at risk and for the citizens who have a weak foothold in the labour market. Pressure on citizens to look for a job can work. But it only works with those who are actually able to adjust their behaviour to new circumstances. However, for a number of reasons, many recipients of cash benefits are not in a position to simply adjust and march into the labour market. The bourgeois will use instruments that don't work. It's kind of like if you have a goldfish you think should deal with more, and then you give it a bike: Up on the bike and off. That is what is called a mismatch in the labour market. Come on, come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. After all, it hurts right inside the petty, devoured bourgeois soul that people are paid to go home, regardless of the fact that they would rather have a job. To the extent that companies lack labour, it is qualified employees who are asked for. And here medicine is logically education, but here too the government is completely sidelined with savings in the field of education. Deteriorated conditions for the recipients of cash benefits do not provide a single additional craftsman or engineer. Poverty does not lead to employment, but to apathy and discouragement. In the longer term, it will actually cost society, because children who grow up in poverty are doing worse in all areas than children from families with security. This proposal is both reactionary and antisocial, and the SF does not intend to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209170603	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209170622	Thank you. We are very pleased with the agreement we have made. We think it is a very good agreement that makes Denmark richer. It means that more people are going to work, it's going to make sure that we have a greater wealth in Denmark, so we have something more for the citizens of this country. Basically, this is the kind of reform that the Conservative People's Party would like to see itself in. These are the kinds of agreements that ensure that more people get to work and that Denmark becomes more prosperous. That's why we've chosen to be part of this deal. For example, where we were not part of the benefit agreement made in the autumn, we see this agreement as very positive. I would like to thank the other parties involved in the agreement. It is of course the Left and the Liberal Alliance, and especially the Danish People's Party, that show that they are ready to take responsibility in this kind of reform. As we have also seen in the debate here in the Chamber, this leads to very harsh criticism from some of the opponents on the other wing, but here the Danish People's Party shows that they are a slightly more serious party, although there might have been an easier point of view here, a more populist view of handing out gifts to the citizens, who might have made life easier for the Danish People's Party. But I think it is good in the long term that you help to take responsibility, that you not only stand and want to spend more money, but that you can also sometimes point out that here you have actually helped to go in and take responsibility for Denmark's economy and for Denmark's prosperity. That is why I think that what other parties are saying sounds a little hollow. I was also surprised at a very critical speech by the Radicals here. When you usually pride yourself on being a party that takes responsibility for growth in Denmark, I am surprised that you are as critical of an agreement as this one. The basic principle is that as a recipient of cash benefits you must not receive benefits when you take the total benefits, which are not only cash benefits, but also the other benefits you can receive more than 80%. of what you could get if you were in a low-wage job to 17,700 DKK. a month. I think that is incredibly reasonable. I think everyone should agree with the view that there should be an advantage in taking a low-wage job in relation to being on cash benefits. It is neither fair nor appropriate if there is no or a very small gain by going from cash benefits to being in work. That is not fair, because if you spend a very large part of your everyday life working, there must of course be recognition of it, and there must of course be a gain in it. We must also bear in mind that people who are in work have some expenses that people who are not in work do not have, and from this point of view too, it should be the case that you get something from sitting down in the box or taking other forms of low-wage work. On the question of what is available when you are on cash aid, the Conservative People's Party feels that the level we are on here, which is a very detailed cash aid ceiling with different rates depending on your marital status, how many children you have, etc., is a reasonable level. We do not think there is any evidence to say that people are becoming poor by introducing this ceiling on cash benefits. We still think that the amount of available money remaining, the amounts received after tax, is so large that it is possible to have a reasonably good life still away with the level given here. Against this background, we can only recommend that we vote in favour of the proposal. We are very pleased that it is being implemented and look forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209171011	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209171014	Thank you. A few weeks ago, in this Chamber, we debated the proposal to freeze the ground debt. Then the same rapporteur stood on the same platform and expressed very great concern that the sharp increase in the basic debt would increase faster than the income would result in families being squeezed out of their homes, with all the consequences, of course, for the children who would then have to leave school and somewhere else. At that time I asked how the rapporteur looked at this proposal and the consequences it has for families who were forced out of their homes. The rapporteur did not want to reply to that day, because we were now debating something quite different. I hope then that I can get an answer from the rapporteur today. Where is the rapporteur's concern with regard to the 13 000 to 14 000 families who, according to the housing companies' National Organization, will have a great deal of difficulty in paying their rent, many of whom will probably be squeezed out of their homes with the consequences it has for the families?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209171108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209171109	I simply believe that Mr. Pelle Dragsted remembers wrong. I certainly have no memory of that debate. I think it's been sir. Brian Mikkelsen, as sir. Pelle Dragsted has had that debate with him. It may be that we are similar, but I do not recall that we have had that debate. My concern for people at risk of losing their homes is, of course, that it is a sad situation to come in and all understanding of it. But I still believe that the amounts we offer people here are sufficient to pay your rent. After all, you can't pay any rent, and it's clear that you can, among other things. is going to have to adjust where one lives if one comes on cash benefits from having been on a higher benefit or from having been at work. It is clear that you get a lower income, and then, of course, you have to adjust where you live, and that may mean that some people are going to move. We can't help it. If we were to completely prevent some people from moving when they landed on cash aid, we would have to offer people a cash aid which was as high as they could get in any job. And, of course, we can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209171213	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209171215	That is actually why we have some of these housing aid schemes, so that you cannot be forced out of your home because you become unemployed. I think that is a very, very good principle. I think it is neither beneficial for the children nor for the family to be forced out of their homes because, for example, they... It is a short-term problem of unemployment or of an economic crisis. I just have to say that the concern of the Conservatives for children forced out of their homes is entirely determined by whether they are children of cash benefit recipients or children of homeowners. For the Conservative People's Party, empathy is simply absolutely class-determined.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209171251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209171253	I think this is a very strange way of putting it up. I fully understand that it is an unfortunate situation if you are going to have to move because you are getting less income. But we cannot guarantee all people that they can stay in any home. After all, you can live in a very expensive home, and then the public cannot guarantee that you can stay if you no longer have a job and no longer have the same income. We can't do that. Of course, it would be nice if we could, but we don't have that money tree. Nor is there any reason to keep paying a very, very high rent.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209171328	Thank you to the rapporteur. I shall now give the floor to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209171340	The draft law we are discussing today translates into an agreement on a cash assistance system, and that is with a view to making work worthwhile. It is part of job reform phase 1 and it is an agreement made between the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party and the Left. The agreement provides for the introduction of a ceiling on cash benefits and a 225-hour rule, and for the right to leave for cash benefits recipients to be reduced from 5 to 4 weeks. The ceiling applies to cash and education aid and integration benefit recipients, and the ceiling sets the overall amount of cash benefits, special support and housing support available. If the total benefits to the person exceed the ceiling, special support and housing support will be reduced. The ceiling does not mean that the cash benefits themselves are cut. The ceiling on cash benefits ensures that working pays better. It is common sense that there must be a difference between being on public support and supporting oneself. It is about respect for the people who stand up and go to work every day, and it is about ensuring coherence in our welfare societies. And then, in particular, it is about more people becoming part of the Community in the labour market, even if it is only a few hours of employment. With the ceiling on cash benefits, it will be the case that a typical cash aid couple with three children still has about DKK 15,000. This is the case in the United Kingdom, for example, in the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom, and in the United Kingdom, in the United Kingdom, in the United Kingdom and in the United Kingdom. And that's when it's based on the normal family type calculations. The government wants these figures to be targeted. We also introduce a requirement that those who can work 225 hours a year to maintain full cash benefits. The rule is designed to ensure that cash benefits recipients are actually available for the labour market. People who cannot work, for example. because of illness or the like, is not affected by the rule. They need help and support to get back into the labour market, for example. through resource processes and a holistic approach. Finally, the Law provides for a change in the entitlement of the recipients of cash benefits to leave so that they are entitled to four weeks' leave instead of the current five weeks and a maximum period of two weeks' leave. I think it is good that we are now creating an increased incentive to take a job and that more people will become part of the working community. And I would like to thank you for the consideration of the draft law here today and look forward to a good committee reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209171654	Thank you, Minister. And there's a few questions. The first one is from Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209171701	Thank you. After all, the Minister must be pleased that the only people who, in their hearing answer, think this is a very good bill are the Minister's old place of work, the Danish Employers' Association. But I just have to ask one clarification question. After all, what happened was that it turned out that the ceiling on cash aid, which had been laid down by the government, was actually reduced in relation to single parents after the budget agreement had been drawn up. In other words, it ended up in the fact that single parents actually get less than what the government first proposed is not correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209171750	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209171752	The proposal as it stands here, as it has been put forward, is a proposal which ensures that there is a special link in net compensation levels or in the difference between what you have as a total income, if you work at a minimum wage, and what you can get in total transfers if you are on cash benefits. It is a band which ensures a net level of compensation of between approx. 80 and approx. 90% And if anyone has been particularly affected, it is because their gain from taking a job in the past has been particularly small.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209171835	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209171837	This is an attempt to find out what has happened because the single people are being put at a disadvantage in this proposal than in the government's original proposal. So something has happened in the financial law negotiations that makes single people actually weaker. I would like to know whether it was the Liberal Alliance or the Danish People's Party, or who it was that actually required the singles to be weaker in this. I think that would be very interesting to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209171907	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209171909	The discussions which have taken place in connection with the drafting of the bill have been reflections of the nature I have outlined, so respectful reflections that the people who stand up each day look after theirs, go to work, should benefit from it in relation to the people who are supported by the public. And we have endeavoured that the net compensation rate is between these approx. 80 and approx. 90%
ParlaMint-DK_20160209171942	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209171945	Thank you. I would like to know whether the Minister can confirm that both the ceiling for cash benefits and the 225-hour rule apply as a starting point to all those who have been assessed by the municipality as ready for activity. As a starting point, I say, because I know that there are possibilities for exemption; but as a general rule, everyone who is assessed by the municipality as being ready for activity, that is. Neither jobs nor training facilities, affected by the ceiling on cash benefits, nor by the 225-hour rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209172017	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209172018	Yes, unfortunately there are a lot of people who are affected by this, and this is because in recent years too many have been collected on cash benefits. What is our aim is to dilute the amount of people on cash aid so that those who have a working capacity now have a clear incentive to take a job with the part of their capacity with which they are able to take a job and that the other people get help so that we have the number of cash aid recipients diluted. As we have heard many times today, cash aid must not be what it has become, namely a lasting benefit. Cash benefits are temporary benefits. You must quickly either in a job or have help so that you can move on to other benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209172109	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209172111	Thank you. After all, this government and the previous government are themselves responsible and are jointly responsible for increasing the number of recipients of cash benefits, because this is a natural consequence of drastically reducing the possibilities for early retirement and also of increasing the number of people who lose their sickness benefit, thus having their sickness benefit taken away from the municipalities. So there is a natural reason why the number of recipients of cash benefits is increasing. However, I do not think the Minister was concerned with the central issue: is it true that people who have been assessed by the municipality as being neither ready for work nor ready for training are affected by the requirement of the 225-hour rule and by the ceiling on cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209172156	Thank you to the questioner. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209172157	The only ones affected by the 225-hour rule are those who do not work during these 225 hours a year and who are assessed by the municipality to have a working capacity equivalent to the 225 hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209172218	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209172222	First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Employment. Must be quite a party day. Now, as other rapporteurs have also said, the Minister comes from a background of the employers' most important lobby organisation, which has been pressured for years to reduce the benefits of unemployed Danes. Then the Minister is pulled into the labour market area from the employers' organization, and now the Minister can put the crown on the work by carrying out these very, very violent attacks on the Danes who are affected by unemployment and, for some, also disease, then the Minister in a hearing reply is applauded on the back of his former organization. It's almost tears in the eyes. However, my question is somewhat in line with that of the previous rapporteur. This 225-hour rule is what you say people have to work. That's fair enough. It is suggested in the consultation answers from an organization that one could then say that yes, to the extent that the job centres actually indicate 225 hours of work and the unemployed here say no, then one could talk about it. Could one imagine an amendment saying that only in cases where the job centre has actually offered these people 225 hours of work will they be affected by this rule?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209172338	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209172339	The first thing we need to be aware of is that there is enough jobs. It is still the case that a large part of the jobs that carry the growth in Denmark are filled with employees from our neighbouring countries. In total, there are now approx. 150,000 years' work, and quarter by quarter more will come. We need to reverse the trend so that more Danes get a share in these jobs. And secondly, it is the case that we are aware that if you approach the deadline to be affected by the 225-hour rule, you should be able to get additional support from the job centres. This has been taken into account in the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209172421	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209172423	Well, I fully agree with that, that is, employers are importing labour rather than hiring local unemployed people. It's a huge bankruptcy. I would then like to ask the Minister for Employment whether the government is prepared to shut down that traffic. Could we introduce just a three-year break on the import of unskilled labour from outside, so that the Danish unemployed and, for that matter, the many refugees now to be integrated will have a chance? It is not the Danish unemployed who opt out of those jobs. It is the employers who opt out of the Danish unemployed because they call a temporary agency in Lithuania instead of looking up jobs at Jobnet. So is the government ready to do something about this, or is it just a song from the hot countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209172459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209172500	We're actually working massively to reverse this development. After all, it is necessary for growth in Denmark and for our prosperity development and for our productivity increase that we are able to fill the jobs that are unemployed in Denmark. But the best thing is, of course, that we can get them possessed with people who live in Denmark. That is why there is the whole change that is now taking place, as a result of the employment reform, and that is why there is the rest of the work, which is also mentioned here in the draft law, to give support to people who are being affected by the 225-hour rule and many other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209172537	Thank you. Then it's mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209172540	If you read the government base, you can see that this bill is part of what you have chosen to call job reform. This is the first part, and then there will be a job reform 2, which one can understand is a tax reform. Now you have to be pretty blind for not noticing that the government has certain challenges in keeping to its own set times, and the chairman of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, has also announced quite clearly that you think you should postpone an additional tax reform not only until autumn, but even longer, in fact indefinitely. So my question is really quite simple: if that happens, what will happen to the revenue generated by this bill? I guess you're not just gonna leave that money behind.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209172637	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209172638	This is how it is also referred to that the government is working both with job reform 1 and job reform 2 and the part of job reform 2 that is relevant here are tax cuts to employees with lower wages. Unfortunately, the latter, due to war and the refugee crisis, have been postponed for six months, but the aim of both is to create clear incentives to work, and this is how it is intended to support the possibility of implementing job reform 2, i.e. tax cuts at the bottom.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209172722	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209172724	Yes, but no one would consider it very realistic that the government will carry out the second half of the job reform if the Danish People's Party does not support it. I can certainly read the newspaper, especially perhaps because I am quoted in the same newspapers as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is. So I guess the question is very simple: what will you actually do with the money if it is that you cannot spend it in this autumn on tax reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209172754	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209172755	I have full confidence that job reform 2 will be implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209172801	Thank you, Minister. I now give the floor to Mr Seligman. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democrats, as rapporteur in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209172818	Thank you. The reason why I simply have to stand on the platform now is that what was said by DF was the worst nonsense. Firstly, the Danish People's Party says: we do not cut the benefits, we keep our promises. 670 people lose 160,000 kroner. A year because of the 225-hour rule, 35,000 children experience inferior conditions, and 7,300 will lose 11,500 DKK. a year. So stop calling it benefits or not; these people are experiencing a huge decline in their income. The next thing is that it is worthwhile to work and thus create incentives, I heard the rapporteur say over and over again. We also have an answer from the Minister who says that 77 per cent. of the recipients of cash benefits affected by the reduction are not ready for work, are not ready to take a job. So how are we supposed to deal with what the Danish People's Party says? There is talk of temporary benefits and that they can just get to work even if they are not • according to the Minister of Employment. How are they going to get to work and how are they going to say temporary benefits when the minister says they are not ready for work? The last thing I want to point out is that the Danish People's Party is now saying that the municipalities can just help those who cannot pay the rent if they are afraid of losing the accommodation. There I just have to refer to the consultation answers and then look at what Denmark's General Housing says. They write: The risk of an increase in the number of postponements is not reduced by the fact that in practice the proposal abolishes the possibility for municipalities to provide special support for high housing costs in the event of an acute social event. So to the Danish People's Party I would say: No, the municipalities find it difficult to help the people who are put out of their homes. So I just think the Danish People's Party is taking this too easy. It seems like they don't care about these people, it seems like they're just gonna have to get this through, and it seems like they're not taking responsibility for what they're doing. There are so many people who lose so much money and there are very many people who have no opportunity to get to work and they do not get the help they need. I have to say that there is simply talk of black from up here, and I haven't learned what the Danish People's Party means, and I think there are really many people out there who aren't either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209173043	The rapporteur must just stand still, because there is one more brief comment. Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209173048	What a round of albums that, as usual, came from mr. Leif Lahn Jensen's side. Having said that, however, I would just like to ask what the Socialist Group's aim is to put forward the arguments they are making. Because I must honestly admit that I really had doubts about what the Socialists want. What's the target? Is it the aim to create more cash aid recipients, as the Social Democrats contributed greatly to when the government came into power in 2011, or is it to have fewer cash benefits recipients? I would very much like a clear answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209173128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209173129	We have multiple targets. When we had the power of government, more people came to work, and Mrs Marlene Harpsøe has been bragging about that, and Mrs Marlene Harpsøe will probably also think that the government is to blame in just six months. But there the previous government has fought a great deal to get more people into work, and it has actually succeeded. Unemployment has fallen; all those reforms have actually led us to get more people into work. This has happened while, in a way, we also tackled the poverty component and made sure that more people had more to live for... where the Danish People's Party helped put families and others in a difficult situation in the 00s. And the Danish People's Party just does that again. So we have shown the results, but the Danish People's Party really has, because then the number of families with children who were ill increased, too, and that will happen again. So we have given plenty of answers, but I still need answers from the Danish People's Party, and I probably won't get that naive either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209173227	Mrs Marlene Harpsøe for a second brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209173229	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen is not talking about it. Listen to what I'm asking you. What I am asking is whether the Socialists want more cash aid recipients. And that is precisely what the Socialists' policy has contributed in recent years to, in other words, creating more cash aid recipients. Would it not be better if it were the case that social democratic policy actually ensured that these cash aid recipients were put into a job? I think so, but it does not seem to be a socialist policy; on the contrary, we are only trying to create more and more cash aid recipients, and that is apparently the aim that has been set out by the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209173309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209173311	This surprises me a little, because when we made the cash benefits reform, the goal was precisely to get more people into work, as we agreed with DF, because they were, in fact, part of the cash benefits reform. And the Danish People's Party was very, very much in agreement with us, and I have thus seen the answer to that. However, our aim is not, as the Danish People's Party wishes, to make worse conditions for the disabled or worse conditions for the single or inferior conditions for all those who have already suffered. That is not our goal. If that is the aim of the Danish People's Party, then say so honestly. That's understandable. Because I don't see any other reason why you do what you do. But that's fair enough, if that's what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209173351	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. I understand, sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, also wishes to speak in the second round of rapporteurs. Here you go. If there are more people who wish to speak in the second round of rapporteurs, they can join us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209173406	Yes, thank you, I'd like to, because I think there are some things we haven't finished talking about. We've gotten the bullshit about how it's worth working and how this is supposed to get more people into work apart. It is not very difficult either, because the government itself writes in the draft law that it is prepared to drastically reduce the conditions for 30.000 people, and 700 more people will be working on it. So it's a confession case that wants something. There is, of course, an interesting debate which the Minister for Employment and Labour is pursuing, on the basis of what the rapporteur of the Left said and also the Liberal Alliance rapporteur said, namely that it is a question of fairness and respect for those who make up their jobs every day and go to work and get a very low salary for their work. Hello, i.e. the low-paid people we agree on that, but they can't buy a better car or get some new clothes or afford to go on a trip abroad because you steal some money from someone who is worse off than them. What's going on there? One appeals to such an inner pig dog that as long as others feel worse than me, I am happy and satisfied. It shouldn't be because you want to see those who are low-paid happy and satisfied with the low-paid pay they get, instead of showing them the respect that they got something more in pay? That's what we have to do for the low-paid. So I think we can do that one more round about what is reasonable and respectful for those who go and do their jobs every day. What can those with poor wages and poor working conditions do with the fact that someone else is getting worse than they already had? Then we have this temporary service, which I think the Danish People's Party especially uses a lot. After all, the Danish People's Party lacks to relate to something that the Danish People's Party would otherwise like to relate to in other contexts, namely that the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs leads to thousands of people being denied early retirement. They are referred to cash benefits, or they are referred to a resource progression benefit where they can live for years on cash benefits for these even lower benefits, which the Danish People's Party will now vote for. Nor do I think that the Danish People's Party has dealt with the fact that the Minister was not very much in favour of confirming it, but he did anyway, and otherwise it can be read in the bill that this bill basically means that everyone who has been declared ready for activity by the municipality is also affected by the ceiling on cash benefits and by the 225-hour rule. This means that people who, on the basis of the municipality's own judgement, are not able to work, still have to live up to everything that hallelujah says it pays to work, and if you cut their benefits, they will get a job. After all, this is an amazing contradiction, which lies in the whole of this bill and the reasons for it, and which none of those who stand for it has been able to explain to us yet. But there will be a chance for the Danish People's Party tomorrow when the Danish Handicap Federation visits our Employment Committee. Then I think the Danish People's Party will get a slightly different message than the one they think can solve these problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209173736	Thank you. There is one more brief comment. Sir. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209173740	Thank you. When I sit here and listen to mr. Finn Sørensen, I am going to feel a little uncomfortable on behalf of the many people who today stand up and do a job and who get a salary of 17,000, 18,000, 19,000, 20,000 kroner. They're working hard. They're working hard. But Mr. Finn Sørensen makes it sound like there's nothing special in it, and if they get a little extra out of going to work compared to those on cash benefits, it's almost horrible. Well, sir. Finn Sørensen not that there has to be a difference between being on cash benefits and taking a job, also jobs for a low salary of 17,700 DKK.? Shouldn't there be an economic difference there?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209173841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209173844	In other words, the rapporteur claims that he was listening. So he has not, because I said that exactly the group we are talking about, the low-paid people in this country, who most often have the hardest jobs and the worst working environment, deserve respect. But it is surely not to show respect for them that we are reducing the conditions of some others. What kind of weird concept of respect is that? Are they getting a better economy from the low-paid? Do they get a better working environment because you trample on someone else who's feeling worse? Do they get better content in their jobs? Do they have more influence on their work? Do they get a better salary from it? No, they don't. It is a completely false issue that the rapporteur raises there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209173928	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209173930	Now I'm gonna get Mr. Kevin. Finn Sørensen it sounds as if everyone who has a relatively low salary also has a bad working environment. Who says that? In other words, the allegations simply overturn from the rapporteur that everyone has poor pay and poor working conditions. That's not what this is all about. It is simply a question of whether there should be a difference between being supported by the public and taking part in the working together. And we are, in fact, concerned that more people are changing the cash benefits to take a job, and in order to achieve that there must be a real difference. There must be a difference between going to work and being publicly supported. But I just have to say that the Enhedslisten does not want this, and to that I have to say: then the difference is very clear in Danish politics between those who want more people to go to work and Enhedslisten, who is pleased that you remain on cash aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209174024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209174025	I fully agree that we have drawn the differences very clearly here. It is always worthwhile for a cash benefit recipient to take a job at the contractual minimum wage. The Ministry of Employment has documented this countless times. So that's not the problem at all. However, unlike the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party, the Enhedslisten is concerned about how we create real jobs in this country. Enhedslisten has innumerable times suggested how we can start green conversion in this country. Then there will be some real, living jobs instead of those magic jobs that the Left and the Ministry of Employment are dealing with. We have proposed that we correct the drastic cuts which, among other things, have been made. With the help of the Left, the welfare of the municipalities has taken place over the past many years by creating some welfare jobs. These are real, living jobs that the unemployed can have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209174122	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more short remarks, nor do I see any more rapporteurs for the second round. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209174141	The debate is open. I give the floor first to the Minister for Transport and Building. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209174206	Thank you. The government is very serious about drunk driving. Drinking continues to be a major problem, and that is why we in the government are concerned about how best to take action in this area. After all, there are many different areas of action: police controls, campaigns, information, etc., and then there are the use of alco-locks, which is the subject of today. The rules of the existing alcola system, which a unanimous Parliament is responsible for, and which came into force on 1 April last year, mean that an unconditional disqualification of the driver's right due to drunk driving will in future always be subject to either a voluntary or a compulsory alcola regime. However, the current alcola scheme has only been in operation for a shorter period for persons covered by the so-called voluntary scheme and is not yet available to persons covered by the compulsory scheme. Thus, in the case of drunken drivers who have been convicted of heavy drinking and thus covered by the compulsory scheme, the scheme will apply only to matters which have been sentenced after the entry into force of the scheme and after the expiry of the three-year period of withdrawal, i.e.: Not earlier than April 2018. Therefore, it is immediately too early to assess whether the current alcola regime can be a success. Having said that, at the same time, I also think it is sensible to consider on a regular basis whether the current system can be improved. I have therefore asked my officials to take a closer look at the various alcola schemes in our neighbouring countries and other EU countries to see if we can draw inspiration. I would therefore also like to acknowledge that the authors of the motion for a resolution have considered what can be done in this area. However, the proposal also raises a number of unresolved issues and I do not believe that the solution outlined is the right one. The motion for a resolution proposes that persons convicted of drinking with a blood alcohol content of between 0.5 and 1.2, who are not currently covered by the alcola scheme, should also have an alkolås installed in the car for two years after recovery of the driver's rights. The proposal thus extends the current alcola system, which applies only to persons who have been sentenced to an unconditional disqualification of the right to drive, i.e. those who have been convicted of drinking with a percentage of more than 1.2. In addition, it is proposed that the current option of opting out of the alcola system and, instead, postponing the date for the recovery of driving rights should be removed, so that the system becomes compulsory for all persons convicted of drinking. But that is clear, for example. not what the individual has to pay to participate in the scheme, and it is stated in the proposal that the convicted person himself has to pay for the installation of alcolocks in the vehicle, but there is no mention of who has to pay for the purchase or control of the alcolock. Nor is it clear who should pay for the administration of the scheme by the authorities involved. It is also proposed that the scheme should be compulsory for all convicted drunk drivers, i.e. that all convicted drunk drivers should have an alkolås installed in their car 2 years after recovery of the driver's right. It can, of course, be a quite costly affair and very intrusive to those affected. What, then, does this mean for those who are unable to participate in the scheme for economic reasons? Will they have lost their driving rights forever, and can it have the effect of cutting more people off from their profession and thus risk being led into further alcohol abuse, or will the effect of a scheme such as the one proposed be that more people convicted of alcohol will start driving around without a valid driving licence? Of course, we would very much like to avoid that. That is why I have to say that I do not think the solution proposed is good, but it should not stop us from looking at the possibilities of improving the present system, and I have also praised the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising the problem. I am open to discussing good suggestions for improvement. I would like to look into whether we can find better solutions and I would therefore like to invite all the rapporteurs who would like to attend a meeting of the Ministry, where, among other things, we are going to meet. based on the schemes in other countries can discuss whether there is a basis for changing the applicable Danish rules on alcolocks. However, as the proposal stands here, the government cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209174704	Thank you, Minister. We are embarking on the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erik Christensen, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209174726	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the SF, as the Minister has just explained, proposes that all convicted people for drinking should have been installed alkolås in their car for two years after the recovery of the driving licence. On the Socialist side, we have sympathy for the proposal. We also welcome all the proposals that can help to limit drunk driving, which unfortunately has far too much financial and human costs, but fortunately we can also welcome the fact that it seems that the actions and punishments of recent years have worked. In any case, we can see that the number of people killed in accidents involving alcohol has been decreasing in recent years. The Socialists supported the proposal to introduce the current voluntary scheme on alcolocks for people who have previously been convicted of drunk driving. After many years, the scheme came into force on 1 April last year, which is why we believe that it is already too early to judge this system. We believe that the present voluntary scheme should be allowed to run for a number of years, so that it can be evaluated on a real basis. Then there is also the fact that we know that the technology is now working, but at the same time it has been a long time in the process of making the technology work, and that is why we think we should now look at whether this is actually working, also technically. In addition, alcolocks, as the Minister said, are not exactly cheap. An alkolås costs at least a significant number of thousands of kroner to buy and get fitted and it can actually be a great expense for many ^ and with SF's proposals will even more be covered by the scheme. In addition to making the scheme compulsory, it is also proposed that it should include drinking from 0.5 per thousand. In fact, we believe that there is already a clear incentive to have an alkolås installed in the car for people convicted of drunk driving and that the scheme should have the opportunity to prove its worth. Against this background, we in the Socialist Group are certainly not convinced that this is the right time to change the system. In conclusion, however, I would like to reiterate that we welcome all the measures aimed at combating drunk driving, which is a very serious traffic problem, and that is why we are looking forward to further discussion in committee if we have any way of changing or at least adjusting the system so that we ensure that fewer people drive drunk driving. However, as the proposal stands, we cannot vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209174949	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209174959	The Danish People's Party has made a number of proposals in this particular area in the past, which is why it is hardly surprising to the authors that we are positive about the intentions of the proposal. We may have some reservations, but it is a motion for a resolution, and we should not be too precise about what it says. What is actually said is that alcolocks are a very good idea, especially if you have taken your driving licence. We think it would be a very good idea if they could be installed in all cars, because then we avoid people driving drunks. The proposal here almost calls for a sanction when you have been driving drunk driving, and we would also like to take part in looking at the current scheme. I hope that a broad majority here can land it here in a report and then have a sensible discussion that the minister like invited to discuss, and talk about how to make this scheme better, how to move forward with the use of alcolocks. Because there's no doubt that alcolocks save lives. And then I do not have the same concern that some may have that it is awful and that it is too expensive for those poor people. So, if you can afford to drink yourself a fire and go out and risk your own life and others' ability, you can also afford to mount an alkolås. So right there, I'm not so guilty about this having to cost a convicted drunk driver. It's not exactly free already. When it comes to the sanctions that are being applied now, it is associated with large fines and so on, but I do not think it is possible to use the argument that it is too expensive for the poor people who have been driving drunken driving, to mount an alkolås. It is much, much more expensive both for society and for everyone else for those families who may lose one of their loved ones because they are run down by a drunk driver. It is much more expensive for society and for all those who are injured and have to burden our health care. The price of an alkolås is, I think, gradually down to the equivalent of four aluminum rims, so can we not ignore that concern about the price? With these words, I would like to say that I hope we can land this broadly politically, because it is so important in terms of road safety, it is so important in terms of saving human lives in traffic. So I hope that we can move forward along this path and that the proposers will accept the extended hand and we will have a sensible report on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209175240	That then prompted the proposer to make a brief comment. Sir. Jonas Dahl, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209175246	I would like to sign for the words, and I am, in fact, very much in agreement with what the rapporteur has also said about trying now to see whether we can bring together a broad political majority in favour of it. I'd like to sign for that, too. However, in relation to the concerns that have been raised, there is no doubt that the price does matter. That is also what the rapporteur compares with four aluminium wheels and, as I have been told, you can rent an alkolås for DKK 800-900. a month. Will the rapporteur comment a little on this, because there are also some differences with regard to the Swedish system and what we are now proposing? Some people have been out saying this is too tight. Is that the concern of the Danish People's Party? It's just to have an understanding of it when we continue to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209175323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209175325	I do not think there is anything too tight in relation to the use of alco-locks, but here it is put on top of the penalty. In the present system, one might say, one gets a little bit of grace at the time of withdrawal and then perhaps an opportunity to get out earlier and get back to the job market if you need your car. I think that incentive is actually good, and that is perhaps one of the things we can discuss. Then SF also suggests that it should be from 0.5 per thousand, so there has to be an unconditional disqualification of the driving licence before this makes any sense. So that's probably where you're gonna have to study the bloody limits. I think we should over 1.2. However, we are open to discussing everything in relation to the use of alcolocks.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209175410	The questioner does not wish to speak in the second round, so thank the rapporteur. We'll continue in the series of speeches. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209175421	Thank you. The Left welcomes the fact that, with this resolution, the SF is focusing on the problem of the excessive number of road accidents caused by the use of alcohol in blood. It is a creepy fact that in the period from 2010 to 2013, it was one in five road deaths that lost their lives in an accident caused by drunk driving. With this motion for a resolution, the SF will require the government to submit a legislative proposal requiring that all convicted persons for drunk driving must have an alkolås installed in their car 2 years after the recovery of the driving licence. In addition, SF considers that persons convicted of drinking with a blood alcohol level of between 0.5 and 1.2 should also have an alkolås installed in the car 2 years after recovery of the driving licence. I have a great deal of sympathy for the SF's desire to follow up on the report "Traffic accidents at night', which the Havari Commission for Road Traffic Accidents has come along with. We must certainly consider further steps to prevent drunk driving and drug driving for that matter, which is also fatal. When a person is denied a driving licence due to drunk driving, there are often major problems in caring for work or training. You could say that you probably should have thought about that before you sat behind the wheel in drunken state. In Sweden, priority has been given to the possibility for drunk drivers to continue driving after a drunkard's sentence by being free to choose between disqualification from driving licence or driving with an alkolås. In my opinion, it is a very far-reaching arrangement which is at odds with the sense of justice of a large part of the Danish population if, shortly after a drunken judgment, one can see the convicted person behind the wheel again. But that is not what the SF is proposing either. In this context, however, I would like to point out the need for a sense of justice. Driving with alcohol or drugs in the blood is not accepted in Danish society, and the arrangements we introduce must of course reflect that. Something suggests that the incentive to opt for a voluntary alcole scheme is too small, and this is probably also in view of the fact that the cost for the driver amounts to up to DKK 30,000. for rent and fee for 2 years. The Left is ready to look into this in the context of examining the experience of other countries around us. There is at least some indication that the present system is not a success, but it has worked for less than a year, so we also owe it to us to get some experience with it. I am pleased to note that the Minister of Transport is looking into the experience of alcola schemes in other countries with a view to gaining inspiration. In addition, I welcome the Minister's intention to invite the rapporteurs to discuss further work on possible changes to the current alco-lock system. It also allows us to gain a little more experience with the current system, which came into force less than a year ago, i.e. an outstretched hand from the government to the parties of the Folketing. Against this background, it is my recommendation that, in the context of the work of the committee, we should try to draw up a report recognising the work being done by the Minister for Transport to improve the rules on alcolocks. The Left cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209175755	Thank you to the rapporteur. Well, there was just one brief comment. Sir. Jonas Dahl, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209175800	I have full respect for the fact that we would like to see what the existing legal basis has, as it were, created from experience, but so far I have known seven people who have taken advantage of it. This cannot be said to be impressive when compared with the figures from Sweden, where the alco-locks can be counted by thousands. I do not think that this is due to the fact that the Swedes drink more than the Danes... perhaps rather than the Danes... but that you have different legislation. However, can the rapporteur give a little cover to what some ideas are in the Left, because I agree that there is a need for a debate on this matter. I am quite glad that we can now hear the Minister inviting us to do so, but what is the direction of the Left? I find this interesting to be clarified here today when we have the proposal in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209175839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209175840	Well, we are ready to go ahead with arrangements, and I also believe that alcolocks are a good means of preventing drinking. Quite how far we want to go, we don't know. Now we think it is very good to look at experiences from other countries. Often we make the mistake here in Denmark that we like bust out there and fail to see what actually works in the countries around us. So we would like to have a closer look at that, and that is what the Minister is doing. At the same time, we welcome the Minister's invitation to the parties to discuss how they would really like to proceed with this. So we are open to looking at a wide range of options, but we think that the SF's proposal here is too far-reaching as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209175923	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209175924	It is rather unclear what goes too far, because experience from Sweden speaks for itself. There they have had it for a long period of time, so that is where we can get the experience right now. Is it the limit of the blood alcohol level that you think is too low, or is it because two years is too long to drive with an alkolås? What exactly is the Left unhappy with? I must admit that I would actually like to try to show a sympathy, because I think there was a response to the proposal, but it is rather unclear to me what it is actually that the Left has against this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209175951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209175952	After all, the Minister has also explained this in his speech here a moment ago. In other words, one of the problems here is that it is very far-reaching that, for two years after you have regained your driving licence, you will have to drive with such an alkolås, and that is quite a great expense for the individual driver. There it may well be that it has an opposite effect, so there are actually more people who are tempted to drive drunk driving. These are the things we need to dig deeper into, among other things. with experiences from other countries, before we just sort of sloppyly just grasp this. But again: praise to the SF for highlighting it, and I look forward to the hope that we will be able to land this case with a report in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209180032	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur, Mr von der Vring. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209180046	Thank you. The Enhedslisten certainly sympathises with the fact that, to a much greater extent than that happens, we have alcolocks installed in cars, in fact at all, but not least in people who have previously been convicted of drunk driving. We have previously supported various proposals in this area, including: from Dansk Folkeparti on that alkolocks were installed in new cars. This came up against some practical bans on the part of the European Union, it must be understood, even though I think that we could have made a national scheme, and at least we could have encouraged the installation of alco-locks by making deductions, for example. the registration tax against replacing things, i.e. removing a number of the other obsolete deductions, which are, after all, included in the registration tax. So, as a starting point, we are actually positive about this resolution, but we also have some reservations. In our view, when a completely compulsory system is implemented, it will be an additional penalty on top of the refusal of the driving licence and the penalties that may be imposed in this respect. In any case, it will be an extra penalty in the form of the 25,000 DKK, which is what was abandoned as the price when we made the scheme back in April 2015. We really think this is an extremely extra-punishment on top of the fact that the driving licence and the penalties imposed in this respect are being denied. It is clear that the present Danish system is not a success, at least not so far. I don't believe it will be either. You could say, yes, it's brand new, and now let's see. But I don't believe that. There are seven drivers who have taken advantage of the voluntary scheme. That's not a lot. Of course, you can assess why this is so. I think it is not least the price that is being paid as an additional penalty, we can say, namely the price of an alkolås which does so. It is also clearly a lack of information about the scheme, I think, and so it is also that the Danish scheme allows people to get an alkolås at the earliest after 2 years, and for many the job has left. Perhaps that is one of the problems here too. In our opinion, the Danish scheme simply lacks an incentive to install an alkolås. That is why we have been referring, for many years, on the part of the Enhedslisten, to, or whatever you would call it, the Swedish scheme. It has also been mentioned here several times. I and Enhedslisten are certainly in favour of us looking at the Swedish experience. I think it is convincing to read that the Swedish scheme today means that there are only 10%. Revenants. It is therefore a good figure against the past, and I have been able to read it to you, namely a figure of 60%. I think that is a sharp drop in the number of relapses, in the number of revenants. 3.256 had an alkolås installed voluntarily in, I think it was 2014. That is, of course, because the Swedish system represents an alternative to the actual disqualification of driving licences. You can basically be allowed to drive again immediately, but now with alkolås. Well, that suggests that it's working. I have to say that I do not fall for the argument about the sense of justice. I think we need a system that works. We need an arrangement that means that people don't drive liquor. And when the Swedish scheme is actually a success, we don't have to cross the river for water or, yes, we should go over the Øresund for water, so to speak. It's over there. Maybe we should get our inspiration. Let me stress straight away that Enhedslisten has no sympathy for drunk drivers at all, but we would like to see us landing a report in which we are very much referring to the Swedish scheme, since, as several people have mentioned, the Minister of Transport too, is also about learning from other countries. That is why, of course, I am also pleased and would like to acknowledge that the Minister of Transport is now saying that he wants to invite all the rapporteurs to talk about this. The Enhedslisten would like to show up for that. We want to make it quite clear that there is a Swedish scheme. There is no need to invent the deep plate again. We don't believe that there's such a big difference between Sweden and Denmark in this context. The only thing we just want to stress or like to point out is that this must not take as long as it took to introduce the Danish system we have now. I think it was adopted back in 2010 or 2011, I don't remember it so closely, and it was at least before I joined the Folketing myself. And we didn't do it until April 2015. It was almost a scandal that it took so long.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209180604	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Jonas Dahl, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209180607	I very much agree that what is in this proposal is precisely an extra penalty, because I think it is very serious when you drive a drunk driving. And I also think that this has some very serious consequences, not least for the relatives and those who are at risk of being affected. But I am also listening to what is being said by Enhedslisten in relation to looking at the Swedish model. Is it that Enhedslisten suggests that you should have this almost conditional disclaimer, so that if you get an alkolås, part of the sentence will lapse? It's just so I can understand where it is that Enhedslisten wants to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209180637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209180637-2	Yes, it is. That is what is basically in the Swedish model and we are certainly in favour of it. And we are simply because we can see that the system is working. It means you don't get this relapse from people who keep running the liquor thing over and over again. It actually works. The Swedish model also means, and it really means a lot to us, that many people in this way can really keep their jobs. After all, there are a lot of people in this country and in Sweden who depend on having a driving licence for their jobs. It's not just a driver's job. It is also people who drive machines etc. etc. around the companies, and people who need to drive in the outermost areas where there is no public transport, to drive from and to work and not really have other options.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209180722	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We continue in the rapporteur's line, and I understand that the next rapporteur is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209180743	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we recognise that there may be some sense in extending the scheme of alcohol locks for drunk drivers. We believe it is important that this possibility of sanctions should be extended and that this is not just a voluntary arrangement. This is a relatively small number of drivers, and fortunately for that. And may it not in some cases be seen as help for self-help that, for two years beyond the period of the driving licence's withdrawal, this additional effort is needed to enable the car to drive? We are convinced that the road users too will appreciate this, so that we can expect a report to be drawn up with the aim of finding an appropriate solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209180835	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the alternative, sir. Nikolai Amstrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209180843	Thank you very much. Alcohol is still one of the biggest killers in traffic, but we are actually in a very good development. The front page of the metroXpress this morning said: • Far fewer young people in sprit accidents. And the figures speak their own clear language: The number of young people injured or killed in traffic accidents has fallen from 304 to 105 from 2009 to 2014. It's a great development, but it doesn't come by itself. It comes because, as a society, we have taken this problem seriously and put in place a wide range of efforts to prevent drunk driving. This motion for a resolution on compulsory alcohol locks for people sentenced to alcohol is a possible next step to make it even more safe to move in traffic, and in the alternative we think very well not only to think in pure punishment but also to think in actions that encourage a wiser way of acting. As both the Minister and several of the rapporteurs have said, we think there are some ambiguities in the resolution, but we really like the very idea of the resolution and the idea of working towards a report. And that the Minister then has an outstretched hand and is already inviting over to a discussion on the subject, we also think that is positive. The proposal as it stands is perhaps too unclear, but we support the intention of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209181020	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209181029	Thank you. We know that too high speed and drunk driving are two of the infringements of the law that cost the most lives and cost the most accidents on our roads. That is why we are very pleased with the SF's proposal, which is to try to develop how we can address the problem of drunk driving. And we think it could be refreshing to discuss how to use such an alkolås to get people on the move when they have received such a punishment. We are not sure that this is the specific proposal that we will support, but we think it might be a good idea to say to people who have violated alcohol law and traffic law that if you get such an alkolås, you can get out to drive something sooner. We would like to take part in this, and we would like to welcome the outstretched hand of the government, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also mentioned, and try to sit down and look at how we can use alcolocks more. Because we believe that we can help reduce the number of alcohol accidents on the roads, which, together with speed, is one of the things that cost the most lives. So we want to be a part of that. We thank the SF for bringing it up here today and look forward to the work we are about to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209181157	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Jonas Dahl, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209181205	Thank you. I would like to begin by expressing my support for the debate. Then there have been two things that I might think require a little extra words before I dive into the comments of the various parties. There were several who centered on whether it was an extra penalty, that it went as low as 0.5 per thousand, so that, when you have ridden with a per thousand of 0.5, there will also be the penalty for driving with alkolås. I would like to say that it is our wish from the SF. We believe that there is a need for a thorough tightening-up. There are so many who have suggested that this should be unclear, and to that I can just say at the outset that it is not unclear. I think there is a need for us to strike down alcoholism very hard. I think it was the rapporteur of the Left who said that 25%. of the road killings are caused by alcohol. If we take the report from the Havari Commission on road traffic accidents, it shows that two out of three accidents at night in rural areas are caused by alcohol. It underlines to me that we have a problem when two out of three of the accidents we have in rural areas at night are caused by alcohol. In any case, it is also about us having some cultural things in Denmark, which means that in a little too many contexts it is okay just to jump into the car and take it home, because it is difficult for a taxi, or because there is a long way to the bus. I don't think that's okay. I also think that there is a need for us to send a very, very clear political signal, and I would also like to sign that, in order for the vast majority of parties to have done so today, we acknowledge that there is a problem here that we need to address. I think we should go very hard on this, and that is also why we have tabled this proposal. Having said that, I would actually like to acknowledge the comments that have come across a broad spectrum. They also came on different pitches, I have listened to, but there is broad support for us to do something. And there is a broad consensus that the proposal which is already in operation and which has worked for a year is far too little when seven drunk drivers have taken advantage of this alkolås and that, of course, it also calls for political action. I would also like to acknowledge to the Minister that he is already suggesting that he will take some political discussions on it and invite the rapporteurs on it; I am very pleased about that. I would like to sign for it, because I think it is positive that we can go straight to action. Now, of course, I would also like to see it followed up with concrete action, and we will, of course, reserve the right, if we cannot proceed with it, to look at whether we should proceed with the vote on the specific proposals. But I also hope and believe that we can bring together a broad circle of parties that have a sincere desire to do something about the far too many people who get into the car and drive with alcohol in their blood. The fact that it ultimately costs their own lives maybe one can say that it is what it is when it is self-inflicted, but what is really sad is when it costs the lives and ability of all sorts of others. Then we have a social problem which we also have to deal with politically. There were several other comments that I would just like to make briefly. The Socialists said that there are also some challenges in relation to the price. I am very much in agreement with that. I replied, I think it was the rapporteur of the Left, no, it was the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party who said that what you can do today is that you can at least get an alkolås for DKK 800-900. By renting it. It is still a great deal of money for many people, and therefore it could also be an opportunity to look at how one could also buy a larger collection from the state, because then there is usually a certain amount of discount. We are discussing this a great deal in the health field these days, it is a question of co-purchases and joint supply contracts, etc., but it could also be one of the options to be explored, so that we might also have a quantity discount. Now it is true that in Sweden the number of drunk drivers who had alkolås installed in 2014 alone was over 3,200, but overall there are over 90,000 alkolås in use because many have had it installed in the company cars. This leads me to what was also mentioned by the Danish People's Party, namely the debate about the limit on the alcohol content. Let's finally take it, I'd like to be a part of that. But I would also like to sign the Danish People's Party for the solution that they mentioned and which I also believe should be the long-term solution, and it is that, as a starting point, there should be alkolås in newer cars, because this is something we need to address. The Left also mentioned what they might have been a little more sceptical about the cost, but they were also against the current system which did not seem sufficient. I'd like to sign for that. I think we can actually reach each other here. The Enhedslisten, the Liberal Alliance and the Alternative had different pitches and also had different reservations about it. Basically, I think it is positive that we have come so far today that we can now hopefully meet with the Minister and I assume that it will be before the summer break. The Minister nods that, so of course I'll keep him up to that. He also has a few months to run on. We are in a situation today where we have to see that Sweden has come very, very far, and the difference between Sweden and Denmark, among other things. After all, the rapporteur on the alternative is not very large. This also means that we should be able to gain similar experience in the Danish context and that we may not least be able to have the discussion, because I believe that some of what we can achieve long ago is the preventive discussion. It is not so much about the discussion about alcolocks in themselves and the introduction of them, which I think will have an isolated effect on those who do it over and over again, but it is very much about the preventive effect when attention is given to it. Time and again we need to draw attention to the risk not only of ourselves but also of one's surroundings when you get into a car and drive with alcohol in your blood, but it is so dangerous to everyone else, not just to yourself. That is why I believe that the arguments are queuing when we talk about the fact that we also have to do more about it. In those words, I would like to acknowledge both the various parties for being positive, but also the Minister for having shown sympathy with the specific proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209181756	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209181814	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Transport and Building. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209181831	Thank you. Student driving is a really nice and festive Danish tradition. It can therefore also be difficult to understand why it is only students who complete a secondary education that will have the opportunity to experience it. For the same reason, I would also like to sign this proposal to extend the student driving scheme. We in the government are in favour of extending the scheme so that more young people who complete an education will have the opportunity to celebrate it with student driving. However, I would like to make it clear that I believe it is important that the extension of the system should take place in a way that is sound in terms of road safety. My officials are looking at how we can extend the scheme, and I would like to say in this context that the government is of the opinion that eux education should also be subject to the rules and be allowed to drive student driving. One might ask how it has been that it has not been possible, and there I hope that we may even be able to do it more quickly than we can do the rest of it, in other words in the form of a report, or how we can now find out the possibilities for it, but we are at least very keen that it should come quickly in relation to the eux education. In the work involved, there are also some considerations as to whether there is a need for road safety to incorporate possible additional conditions for student driving permits. Such conditions will, however, depend on which training seeks authorisation. Since I think it is important that we think through the road safety aspects of the matter, I would also like to say to the proposers that I hope they will see it as such that, when we in the government do not say that we can support the resolution, it does not indicate that we do not very much want to meet the proposers and try to find out whether we can somehow think about some things. There are a lot of things we have to deal with. For example: We are now spreading it throughout the year, and there may be something good about that, but there may be some challenges. It also has something to do with whether, if there are so many cars that are about to drive, some things about something safety-related, we have to go in and look at. However, we are very sympathetic to the fact that we are having a good discussion on this, and I would like to take the lead myself in enabling us to get the discussion going with all those who might be interested in it over with me, where we can try to discuss things. My officials are already looking at what considerations and what questions need to be considered, and I would therefore like to say to the authors that I think it would be a good idea if, for example, we were to do so. In the committee, however, the committee decides that it could end up with a report, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. But the fact that we do not support the resolution as it stands now, and we do not, should not be taken as an indication that we do not see that there are some good things in it. On the contrary, we are already in the process ourselves, and I can only call for us to do so together and try to find out some models which will meet both the wishes of the motion for a resolution and the wishes of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209182154	There is one brief comment to be made to the Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209182159	Thank you and thank you very much for the positive approach. I am very pleased about that, but there are a few details of what the Minister is saying, which I am just sprinkling over. Because it is said that it depends on what education is seeking. I do not really see why it should make a difference what it is for some young people sitting around the barn of this truck compared to getting out driving a student car. So why is it important what kind of education is looking for?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209182223	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209182224	No, what you just have to remember is that we need to get it defined. The motion for a resolution has, of course, defined it in one way in the motion for a resolution, and other ways could be found to define it. It is true that most people today know it from what you see once or twice a year when they are driven, but I think we should just go in and look at these courses and also look at when they have actually finished, how often they have it and how much the need for what is coming will now be. So it's more in that light, you have to see it. I think it is good that you do not go in and say that there are some courses that have more rights to drive students than others. I have also noticed that the motion for a resolution has proposed a word that could be used instead, and I do not reject that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209182314	Then there are no more questions for the Minister in this round. Thank you, Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's line, and the first speaker is Mr. Erik Christensen, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209182335	Thank you. After all, the motion for a resolution tabled here by the DF is a reboot from last year when the discussion of the proposal was interrupted as a result of the parliamentary elections. We very much welcome the resolution because it opens up the possibility for more students to drive students at the end of their education. We very much agree with the proposers that there should not be any difference between the training courses and everyone should be given the opportunity to do so here. It is, of course, an old tradition which has so far belonged to general secondary school. It started in the 1960s, and in 1975 the need actually became so great that it had to be regulated by law. But since then, according to the proposers themselves, more than 100 additional youth education programmes have been added, and they should not, of course, be cheated on a good tradition of driving around with comrades and visiting parents and enjoying themselves etc. Having said that, we do not think that any distinction should be made between students and students, we therefore welcome the proposal. At the same time, however, we also think, as the Minister said, that there may be some road safety issues in this. After all, we have already seen serious accidents with the journeys that are taking place. That is why we believe that we need to tighten up legislation and the safety of driving with students and others. For example, one could imagine that it was required that the speed could only be 40 km/h and that the racks on these trucks should be somewhat higher, so that at least one has to climb up in order to fall out. We do not support the resolution as it stands, but we are happy to go into the further work of the committee to bring together, as the Minister mentioned, a report on this. The important thing for us is that there is no difference between education and training, so that everyone can use this tradition, and so that at the same time we have a look at whether, in terms of road safety, there can be some issues that we have to deal with. It was supposed to be the words from us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209182603	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209182622	Thank you. Student driving is a good and festive tradition across the country. After the hard work with the exam the hat must be celebrated. I would like to sign that the Danish People's Party, with its motion for a resolution, is proposing an equal treatment for youth education in terms of student driving. Specifically, it is proposed that upper secondary education of at least two years' duration be covered by the student driving decree. The Left agrees with the reasonable and reasonable view that more young people will have the opportunity to celebrate their youth education with student driving. And in fact, as has been said, perhaps this should be called youth education rather than student driving. It is just not so loud a word, one has to say. It is important for the Left that the extension of the student driving notice should take place with due regard for road safety. A marked increase in the range of courses leading to student driving will also lead to an increase in the number of vehicles going on the roads. In addition, student driving will also be spread throughout the year, and student driving in winter may lead to some challenges. That is why I am pleased that the Minister for Transport and Building is looking at a draft new announcement. During the work on this new regulation, it is examined whether, from the point of view of road safety, there is a need to include additional conditions for granting permission for student driving. These conditions must, of course, be independent of the type of training, and that is precisely the aim: to make training equal. Of course, it is a prerequisite that the wagons in question, which are to be carried with and celebrated, must be sighted and approved for the purpose. It may also be considered, as the Socialist rapporteur said, whether a speed limit of, for example, one should be notified. 40 km/h. in order to strengthen the safety of these festive runs. As I have said, the Left welcomes the proposal, which equates the broad range of good youth education available to us in Denmark and which we would like young people to take. However, we would like to await the work of the Minister of Transport to take account of road safety considerations. That is why I hope that, in the course of the committee procedure, we will be able to land the matter with the formulation of a report across the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209182857	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enheslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209182910	Thank you. The Enhedslisten has the view that from a purely equal point of view we are in favour of this motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party. I would say that, from a road safety point of view, this is totally untenable, but it is because we already believe that what is happening at the time of student driving is completely unsustainable. I do not know how many accidents have occurred, but it is a fact that serious accidents have actually occurred in connection with this student driving. I have been told that there have also been fatal accidents in connection with this, and that is, of course, serious. And that's what he thinks, for the young people who are on this truckload are deadly drunk, they're not strapped, and they're hanging out over these guys and slamming in their youthful bosom and drunkenness. I think it's nice that you drink yourself in the fence when you've got your exam, but not on a load of a truck that drives around in ordinary traffic. In fact, we think it might be better to ban this madness completely, as we really think it is, but it is probably not very likely that we will get through with it. That is why I welcome the comments which, among other things, have been made. has fallen from the Minister that you are looking at this. You're one of them. in the process of looking at road safety, and a number of proposals have been mentioned about perhaps 40 km/h. as the maximum speed or better securing of the charge in one way or another. I really think that is gratifying, because there are some unknowns in this, if you just extend it to the whole strip of upper secondary education. Also because many of them end at different times of the year, so it is spread throughout the year. Some courses have ended several times a year, as far as I understand, so that it can become quite uncontrollable. But I would like to say that this rapporteur really is against this being the case. However, the Enhedslisten, which consists of a lot of young people who can still remember when they got their exams, believes that, from the point of view of equality, we should nevertheless support the proposal. I am doing the same, because it is clear that I too think it is unreasonable that it should be reserved for four or five training courses to complete this. This is crazy. But it may seem a little strange that a system which one really thinks is crazy should be extended to a few more. I put my hopes to the committee work and the work that is going on in the Ministry of Transport to do this much, much safer than what is going on today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209183215	Thank you to the rapporteur. We will continue with the next speaker, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209183241	Thank you. The motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party makes a good point. It may be argued that these rules on student driving should apply to a wider circle. On the other hand, it should also be the case that there is more to it than a truck card in a vocational school before you are allowed to drive that kind of freeway. Even with a 2-year limit, it seems that we will operate with no less than 114 upper secondary educations and thus also a number of educations where you finish in the winter when it is cold and the lead is bad. In the Liberal Alliance we believe it is important that all these young people should be able to stand on an open barn, more or less sober, by 80-100 km/h. and we would therefore recommend that the speed should be down close to that which a moped or a tractor may drive, i.e. 30-40 km/h. If this can be done, we shall immediately take a positive view of such a change in the notice as is at issue here. I should like to stress that one should not, of course, be able to stand on such a barn at 100 km/h. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209183358	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209183405	Thank you very much. If there is something we would like to support in the alternative, it is the good mood and the opportunity to celebrate its victories. And there is simply no better victory for a young person than having completed a youth education. The victory must be celebrated in a proper and equal manner, even if the training is not equally called stx, hhx, htx or hf. The proposal here, as we have talked about, opens up the possibility of allowing student driving for all two-year upper secondary education. The fact that the proposal creates equality between upper secondary education is an additional bonus on top of the celebration. Of course, there are safety reasons to take, and that is what we must address in the committee's work. Some would also argue that the proposal risks creating problems of distress, especially a few weeks in June, and to that we would say that the increased quality of life that comes from holding back from a cartload of happy young people with virtue and waves, and not least from waving back, fully outweighs the problem of congestion. The alternative is happy to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209183518	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209183526	In the Radical Left, we also think that more upper secondary education should be allowed to drive a student or a swing or a student driving, or whatever you might call it. We do not think it makes sense that only those who have taken general upper secondary education should be allowed to do so. On the other hand, we would also like to discuss when to drive in an open truck or what to call it. Because we don't think it's something you should be allowed to do every year, as long as you've been through an exam or another course. We also think it would be possible to discuss what demands are made on those cars which then have to be used for it. So we would also like to respond to what has come out in this debate that we sit down and discuss it together in committee. However, we are very clear that, if we agree to allow some, people other than just those who have taken education in the general high school should be allowed to do so. We think it is a little educational snobbery that only certain groups are allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209183634	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Jonas Dahl, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209183641	Thank you. There have been many humorous remarks and happy messages today, and I am not supposed to hold back from it. I think it is a good thing that the problem is now raised in relation to student driving, and it should of course apply to all those who have received upper secondary education or an upper secondary education or what the term is. This must of course apply both to stx and hhx and to htx and to hf and also to eux, as the Minister also mentioned. I agree with that, so I really don't think that's where the problem is. However, if I have to deal with it just a little bit soberly, I would say that I also think it is important that you also take a look at what driving is being done and, above all, ensure that the safety of a truck is limited • that speed is not just jabbed up, because it is clear that you drive faster, there is of course also a greater risk when you are not strapped. It also looks as if the Danish People's Party agrees entirely with this. I very much agree that we need to look at this so that it will of course apply to everyone, and with the comments that, of course, we must constantly assess whether it is also safe with the wagons which, if necessary, are being sent into traffic with young people, I can agree with the proposal. But I think it is important that we keep in mind that, if not necessary, there must of course be one, so in any case, we must have safety, I think we can call it when we are in a muddy state and drive around on a truck. In any case, it must be present, and I think most of us can agree on that. In those words, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209183819	Thank you to the rapporteur. I shall now give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. I'm sorry, a rapporteur just came in, so we're just waiting. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209183843	Thank you. We in the Conservatives think that this is a good proposal. I can say that we have had a little discussion on this, because, as Conservatives, we have also considered such a little bit whether we should safeguard much of the traditions, which is that only students have had this kind of driving. But we also have the consideration to take into account that we think that there is in fact a major problem with the fact that upper secondary education has too high a prestige compared to other educations. There are too many people who choose it and then you can do some small things that make it attractive to take other courses as well. That's why we think this is a good idea. I can see the consideration that we need to ensure that not too many people drive around in open trucks and disrupt traffic, and I also heard on the Enhedsliste that there were some very, very serious concerns about whether it would trigger chaotic conditions and social unrest if they did so. I don't quite share that. I'd also like to deal with Mr. Knox. Joachim B. Olsen say that I may have a slightly more liberal mindset, you might say, because I think it will slightly regulate itself. I do not see that there will be a risk that people who have completed the first stage in the auditor's education or anything else will stand on open trucks and run screaming through the city. I think it will be primarily if you have completed longer courses, upper secondary education, where you yourself feel that it is such a big achievement that you can swing up on those nails where you start doing that. So I do not know how much regulation is really needed, but we can discuss that in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209184024	Thank you to the rapporteur. I think we're ready for the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209184035	Thank you. I would like to thank you very much for your positive reception. I think that what is absolutely important and central, and that is also what I hear a broad support for the creation of equal opportunities. In other words, we are fighting over these years to give more prestige to vocational training to ensure that it will be just as good, you might say, to go that way as to go the general school path. That's why I think the most important thing in this is the signal. I can easily follow the comments made by both the Minister and all the rapporteurs that there is of course something about road safety, that of course there is something about how we are considering doing it over the year. It is already the case today that you actually have to apply to the police to get a permit to drive this driving, and I imagine nothing but that it should continue to be so. So I am also very pleased that the Minister is open to already • I can hear that going to start looking at a new announcement. I hope that we will be able to help shape it so that it has the right aim, but of course it also requires the right security conditions. A speed limit of 40 km/h. could easily be a sensible thing. There is also something in this context that I hope we can discuss, which was brought up when this proposal was up last summer and which is about veteran cars. There are a lot of places where veteran cars are used in this connection. They may run for a few days a year, and if they have to meet the requirements as they are today, about tachographs etc., then it's gonna be really hard to get them to be part of this. And why should we make such tough demands on the very cars that could make this a memorable experience? I hope we can also have a discussion on this, in other words how we can do it in a sensible way, so that we can ensure that as many people as possible have the opportunity to have this experience. I don't even think we're being crossed by them. Because where I have heard there is a need for this, there are places where we have a campus today, where you can say that some classes are allowed to drive student driving, but not even eux classes must do so. I fully agree that we can then say first of all that they must of course be allowed to do so. But it is also the case with the other educational institutions, where students in different educations come together and where they can say: the neighborhood class must, but we must not. It seems so baroque, and that is why, of course, I am very pleased that you are very positive about it. The Enhedslisten also apparently has so many young members that they can persuade even the older Korypheans to say that you can agree to this. So it's just great. So thank you for that. I look forward to further work, and then I hope that we in the committee can come up with a report and, together with the Minister, can have a new announcement that can make this possible in a sensible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209184326	There is just one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209184331	I would like to ask the rapporteur something that I stumbled upon in the comments on the proposal. I fully agree, and today's debate has shown that this is, of course, a long tradition. I totally agree with that. But that it should be a classic Danish value, I think maybe it's just going to the edge. And that it may also have a positive and motivational influence on the students who are hanging around the border to pass and that they may make an extra effort to get through because they will not miss out on the social value that lies in student driving is so to go straight to the edge of what is in this. It is a joyous event and people think it is funny and you get drunk and so on. etc., but that it should be such a classic Danish value that makes people hang in and last, isn't it right to the edge?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209184436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209184437	No, actually, I'm not sure. You can always discuss how old something has to be before it's classic. It may also depend a little on the age of oneself, and of course it can be different. That this is going to have a positive value, I'm actually quite sure. Well, one of the places I got the inspiration for it was actually at an educational place where some could get permission for this while others couldn't. In fact, it meant a great deal because there was a great deal of lack of recognition in not being allowed. Somewhere I think that if you're part of a community, you want to be part of this too. Then you can always discuss what is the last detail of it, as to whether you want to do something extra, but I just think this is the little tooth that can give the extra recognition that may have a value. That is what we say in the comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209184522	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209184523	This is more because I see the concept of classical Danish value as something that helps define us as Danes. And I'm thinking that if this didn't exist now, or if we forbade it, would it pick a lot out of our identity as Danes? I also ask, of course, because the Danish People's Party is very keen on the Danish values and so on. etc., and so I think: Ah, if this did not exist now, or if it were banned, would it do a great deal about our identity as Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160209184557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209184558	Of course, you can always discuss that. But I actually think there's a really good old thing in my eyes... value in being able to carry out these student drives. Then I know that some will say that it should only belong to the red student hats if it is quite right. And there you might say that we are a little progressive in the Danish People's Party, because we believe that no, so it should also be possible for all other educations to use this value and get the pleasure and joy and recognition that there is in a student driving.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209184630	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Ministry of Transport and Building. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160209184646	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 10 February 2016, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
