ParlaMint-DK_20160301130019	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301130028	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301130037	Thank you. Being a minority government presents some particular challenges. This is a fact which I do not believe can be disputed by anyone and which has also been highlighted in various ways by the events of the last week. This has given rise to serious and thoughtful thought about the way we work together and we have discussed this with our parliamentary basis in discussions on involvement, co-determination and orderlyness. When it comes to what we work together on, my focus is unchanged. Denmark faces very major challenges, where it makes a crucial difference that it has a liberal government. We must restore growth, we must restore development throughout Denmark. We must develop and improve our welfare in a situation where the public economy is under pressure. We need to move thousands of Danes from passive support into the working community to ensure that our society is economically linked and, above all, we are in the midst of a huge migration and refugee crisis, which puts the whole of Europe, and hence Denmark, under unprecedented pressure, a crisis that European leaders are meeting again on Monday at a summit with Turkey in Brussels. The government has submitted a motion for a resolution to the Danish Parliament on refugee villages. We are examining what a majority in this House wanted, and the Minister for Integration has invited the parties of the Danish Parliament to discuss the motion for a resolution. This shows, in all its briefness, that refugee villages will be a more expensive solution for society than the one we have today. At the same time, there is a significant risk that refugee villages will result in parallel communities, which is why the government's starting point is clear: we do not support the proposal for refugee villages. We have two objectives: we will help the municipalities to solve the very large tasks they face and solve them cheaper and solve them more effectively; we therefore have discussions going on and we will fight against parallel societies; we will improve integration. These are major challenges which neither the government, the municipalities nor others can solve on their own, but which can only be solved jointly, and that is what we are working on in tripartite negotiations with the social partners and discussions with the municipalities respectively. Because I remain convinced that the key to better integration, in addition to trying to limit the number coming to Denmark, is primarily to get people out more quickly at a workplace. Because it is through work that one ultimately supports oneself; it is by associating with colleagues that one learns the language; and it is also here, the talk goes about traditions, about child rearing, about parent meetings. It is at work that you learn how we do things in Denmark. That is why I am also pleased with the partial agreement reached by the government and the social partners on Friday without, I think, the very great media awareness of a partial agreement on a greater focus on employment in the integration effort. Firstly, the partial agreement should contribute to the first time a refugee is in Denmark can be used more actively, for example. in that more emphasis is placed on job opportunities when deciding where the individual refugee is to live. Secondly, integration efforts must be based on the fact that refugees can and must work when they come to Denmark. One should not be able to speak Danish to work; on the contrary, one learns Danish when working. Thirdly, Danish education needs to be made more labour market-oriented, and larger companies employing refugees and family members will have the opportunity to organise Danish education themselves. Fourthly, the municipalities must be better at helping those companies that want to hire refugees who may live in another municipality. So these are four concrete results of the first partial agreement, which is now the platform for further discussions with the social partners. We have taken the first steps and now that result can also be taken into account in the discussions with the KL. I think that is good for further cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301130503	Thank you, Prime Minister. We now move on to questions from the party leaders. In the first round, the questioner and the Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time. Two follow-up questions follow, each with one minute's speaking time for the questioner and the Prime Minister. In the second round of the largest party, the questioner and the Prime Minister have again up to two minutes' speaking time each, but the two follow-up questions and answers can only take 1⁄2 minutes. I would appeal to all the Prime Minister and party leaders to respect each other's speaking time, because we have shared in adopting the rules that exist. Since we have our North Atlantic members today in an extended Question Time, we begin with Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301130541	Thank you very much, thank you for the floor. The basis for parliamentary work here in the Folketing is the Constitution. The Constitution describes in section 28 who are members of the Folketing. Here it is described that Greenlandic, Faroese and Danish members of parliament are members of the Things on an equal footing • none higher, none lower than others. Politics is about influence and influence. It is a question of creating political results, and we all know that political results are achieved both by a debate here in the Assembly, but at least as much at the negotiating table. Sitting at the negotiating table is the whole prerequisite for us to be able to do our job and for us to be able to achieve some serious results. It is an important parliamentary tool. That is why it is also surprising that there is no tradition that Greenlandic MPs participate in financial law negotiations, wage-pool negotiations or conciliation negotiations. Our primary role is to defend Greenland's interests in the Kingdom Community, primarily in the 32 areas that Denmark still carries out on behalf of Greenland, including defence, foreign policy and justice. So you can say that our starting point is different, but our position is the same. We're members of parliament on an equal footing. Therefore, if we are to take the positive approach, it is gratifying that the Minister for Finance, from the platform here in December last year, promised the North Atlantic Members that we would be invited forward to financial law negotiations. We have been able to confirm that we can take part in conciliation negotiations on an equal footing with Danish colleagues, and so I would like to know whether the Prime Minister can confirm that all members of the Parliament are members of the Things on an equal footing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301130742	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301130746	Yes, I can certainly confirm that, because, as the author also said, this is already apparent from the constitution. Now we actually had the opportunity to discuss these matters in a very long and, I think, constructive meeting relatively recently, and this government is open to cooperation with all the members of the Folketing. In relation to the historical situation with the North Atlantic members, I think it has to some extent also been based on tradition. There are North Atlantic members who have over time chosen to associate with certain parties and form part of certain Danish party groups and seek influence along those lines. From time to time, there have been North Atlantic members who have drawn their own lines and have said: we refrain from engaging in the detail of matters which are Southern Denmark ■ if I may use that expression. I hear the questioner in this way that a readiness is expressed to have a commitment beyond that, and I welcome that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301130855	Thank you. Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301130858	Thank you very much. There are some of us who are not so happy with the concept of Southern Denmark, it gives some associations that are not so lucky. In 2015, the Bo Smith Committee came up with a report called "The Official of the Modern People's Ruler," which criticises the current form of government. For important parts of the political decisions are taken at closed meetings, behind closed doors, between rapporteurs and ministers, often about some multiannual agreements such as the one we are discussing today. These conciliation negotiations. And, of course, some knowledge is generated and some knowledge is shared that is not available to the members of parliament who are not part of these conciliation negotiations. These are negotiations in which the North Atlantic mandates are not part of, for example. It can be seen that defence is provided exclusively by Denmark on behalf of Greenland. It is not an area that Greenland itself is responsible for. So we are dependent on Greenland being consulted, and I therefore also think it is obvious that the North Atlantic mandates are invited to these negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301131009	The Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301131011	Thank you. I apologize very much if I create wrong associations by using the word Southern Danish in quotation marks. It was just to try to clarify a point a little quickly, namely that part of the Danish Parliament's work has, you might say, direct • and in fact may only influence what happens in the part of the Danish community called Denmark. And there I myself have observed over time that a number of North Atlantic members have had the attitude in relation to it, that they have not as such wanted to be directly involved in it; it is probably a kind of reflection, although one can formally do so, that in the areas under discussion here, they have themselves been taken home as far as Greenland and/or the Faroe Islands are concerned. I can only repeat what I said just now that I welcome the fact that there is an indication of an engagement here in Parliament. The government takes note of this, and we will, of course, take care to take it with us in our further work, so we have good substantive discussions with the North Atlantic members where there is a mutual interest in it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301131119	Thank you. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301131122	Thank you very much. When we have chosen to choose to be Greenland's free voice, it is precisely to have our own voice, but also to go constructively and solution-oriented into the work. So I'll at least sign for the PM's preliminary feedback. However, I also think it would be interesting if the Prime Minister, who is also the joint minister and head of the government, could support the North Atlantic mandates in conciliation negotiations and wage-pool negotiations and financial negotiations in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301131156	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301131200	The Minister for Finance has already indicated that he will also consult the North Atlantic members in future financial law negotiations. Where that leads, I can't stand by and pre-discount. As far as conciliation is concerned, the tradition here and I do not think that can be changed without further ado is that those who take part in conciliation negotiations are the ones who have conciliation with each other. However, I would like to give the undertaking that we will be responsive to wishes and that applies to all North Atlantic members ■ about the degree of involvement and commitment. I cannot stand here and give any parliamentarian exclusive access to a settlement; that would be to equip everyone with a right of veto, and I think that would be inappropriate. But we will certainly be sensitive to the wishes that exist to engage in the political work of the Folketing, including, in other words, in discussions with the government on given policy areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301131300	Thank you. Then it's mr. Magni Arge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301131310	Thank you. Sir. Prime Minister, the Faroe Islands has gradually taken back most of the legislation and administrative responsibility for Faroese society, and it is the Faroese taxpayers who finance nearly 90%. of public expenditure. These are major challenges that the Faroese people, our political system, the administration and society as a whole have undertaken, and this requires solid structures in our social foundations. It is therefore both natural and necessary for us to adopt a constitution that can define a stable framework for our social structures and help to guarantee fundamental rights for the Faroese people. The constitutional work is therefore about creating greater cohesion in Faroese society, and it is about strengthening the organisational and democratic foundations upon which our society rests. It is not about secession from Denmark in this round. The constitutional work has been through a long democratic process and we look forward to bringing the process to a conclusion in a referendum in 2017. The general position in the Faroe Islands is that this is a matter that we have to discuss at home in the Faroe Islands, and which the Faroese people must decide without any interference from Denmark. And of course we expect both the government and the Folketing to respect the Faroese will. Out of curiosity, I would like an answer as to why the government is opposed to a Faroese constitution defining the Faroese people's right of self-determination when, in a communication to the United Nations in 2005, the Danish state stated that the foreign policy law for the Faroe Islands is enshrined in the same right of self-determination under international law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301131507	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301131510	Thank you. I do not really know who can patent the term the general view in the Faroe Islands. So, it is my own experience, when I observe the public debate in the Faroe Islands, that it also has its diversity, just as it does in Denmark. After all, we have had this discussion before, and I can only say that we are happy to participate constructively in discussions to promote the completion of constitutional work in the Faroe Islands. And the red line that I have, as the government has, as the previous government had, and as the government that I myself led before the previous government had, is that such work should of course be, it can be said, in accordance with the constitution that applies to the Kingdom Community, that is to say, to Denmark. I would like to stress once again that I think it would be sensible to consult the Danish Government in the work in the Faroe Islands, which I have complete respect for, in order to avoid a situation where you have a final product that is not in accordance with the constitution. Then I repeat what I have said before, namely that I have complete respect for the Faroese people's right of self-determination, even so far that if the Faroe Islands decide at some point to withdraw from the Community, it is a decision that must be taken. However, I am simply appealing for openness and transparency in this discussion, and I think that is best achieved if we consult the Danish Government in the work under way in the Faroese Laying and observe the notes which have been prepared over time in the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301131704	Sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301131707	Now we have been through the debate on self-determination in international law before, but I understand that there is movement now in this respect. I am glad to hear that, because for many years we have heard one Prime Minister after another say that Denmark will respect the will of the Faroese people if we decide to become self-employed and I would like to say that, of course, it should just be missing. At the same time, however, there have been very strong opinions that foreign policy law, for example, has been adopted. is completely frozen in a, we might say, inflexible construction. And we have had strong opinions that we should not express the right of self-determination in a future constitution. In this connection, I would like to ask: does the government believe that we have reached the end of the evolution of the Kingdom community, if I may say so? Have we reached the limit of what irreversible self-government can develop into? For then there is only one alternative to the current situation, and that is that the Faroe Islands establish themselves as an independent state.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301131820	Now it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301131823	Well, if there is a rocky Faroese desire for independence, I would like to give a commitment here that when it is materialised, then we must work together on how best to fulfill that desire or will. But it starts there. I am, like the questioner, bound by the Constitution. We've had these discussions before, and I've mentioned examples... also Danish examples... where there's been a majority in the Danish Parliament who really wanted something more. This is true, for example. the right to vote for foreign students, where we have been restricted by the Constitution in the political will we had. Then you can do a constitutional review, but it has to be based on the fact that in the Faroe Islands you are preparing your position, that is, what you want in the Faroe Islands. If you want to be part of the Commonwealth of the Faroe Islands and that is at least what I have left of impressions until a different constitution is created, then the Faroe Islands, like the Danish Parliament, are bound by the boundaries of the Danish constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301131935	Sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301131938	I am pleased that the Prime Minister will respect the will of the Faroese people, and I also believe that it is the will of the Faroese people that must be expressed through a referendum and then we act in relation to it. To get to the slightly easier part, I have to tell you that the ambition to raise the Faroese flag on the public flag poles in Denmark once a year did not arouse the huge jubilees in the Faroe Islands, even though the story got leg to go on in the Danish media. But I have an alternative proposal which I think many will appreciate very much, and it is an annual state-funded friendship match in football between Denmark and the Faroe Islands, alternately in the Sports Park and at Tórsvøllur in Gundadalur. The symbolism is understandable. It may be intense in the heat of the fight, but we commit ourselves to fair play on the field, as equal parties should do, we will have a fair result. The spectators will have a fine show, and there can be a folk party, both separately and together. It may harm them,
ParlaMint-DK_20160301132048	Thank you. And applause is allowed this time. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301132052	Thank you. I hope that some sports organisations listen to it, because it sounds really, really exciting. I can say that, as far as the party of which I am chairman is concerned, we have had the established tradition that, when we have held summer group meetings in the Faroe Islands, we have conducted such a friendly fight. I dare not say what the outcome of the last one was, because it was David who beat Goliath. As far as the issue of flagging is concerned, it is of course under consideration. The government is considering this and, of course, I am still in dialogue with both Greenlandic and Faroese colleagues before we make a final decision. If so, it will be on Olaidag that will be flagged with Faroese flags in Denmark, but we can return to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301132143	Thank you to the Prime Minister and thank you to the questioner. Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301132148	Thank you. In fact, for a number of years there was a struggle between Altinget in Iceland and the Faroese Lagting. Those were some great fights. I'm going to run a little bit in the same track as Aaja Chemnitz Larsen with another sign. It is the case that sometimes we neglect to put things on the political agenda, while things are calm and peaceful, and then we throw ourselves into the discussions when the circumstances push us into it, but then it happens many times unprepared and in a whipped mood. In the days leading up to the parliamentary elections in June there was a lot of focus on the North Atlantic mandates, because we seemed to be able to decide who gained power in Denmark. That did not happen and, as is typical, the discussion died. But if only one of the blue parties had been given only one mandate fewer, it would have happened that the blue block had won clearly in Denmark by 89 to 86, but yet Helle Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt would have continued as prime minister because there would be 4 red North Atlantic mandates and lift her up to 90. After all, we have been elected on a completely different agenda than all the others. The Folketing does not legislate directly in the Faroe Islands, and our voters do not pay taxes in Denmark. After all, it is a fundamental condition of democracy that taxpayers and voters are the same people. Therefore, it would certainly have led to a heated discussion about the role of the North Atlantic mandates in the system, but this would have been done in a whipped-up and unprepared atmosphere. I personally would not have been comfortable with depriving a Danish majority of an electoral victory. I'll tell you what. I would like to ask the Prime Minister now, where we are not in the situation, whether it would feel right or would feel wrong to him if, on 18 June last year, in a situation where the Blue Block had won the election, he had not received the keys to the Prime Minister's Office anyway, because 4 red North Atlantic mandates gave the victory to those who had lost the election.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301132350	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301132352	Well, that's counter-productive storywriting. I think that if you have to get into the emotional register and uncover it there, you might have to ask a former chairman of the Left to bring out some feelings in this respect. The situation did not arise. So, there was in Denmark, not in the Kingdom Community of Denmark, but in Denmark, a majority of such robustness that it reached a change of system. There have been other examples in history that there has not been. It is the case that all members of parliament are members of parliament. So I cannot do anything about that. I can easily understand the thought which Mr. Mr Sjúrður Skaale himself does, and that would have been Mr Skaale himself. Sjúrður Skaale freely how to use your mandate. That hits that discussion from before. I am happy to take part in the discussion, even outside Question Time, on how to make the best and most trusting cooperation between all members of the House, including those elected in the position that part of the influence they have here is not put through at all on behalf of the electorate they represent. Because it is the heart of the matter that if you go in and participate in how we design the Danish primary school, it is of course interesting, but of course not for Faroese schoolchildren. Just as I have to think about it, sir. Sjúrður Skaale and others who have been chosen with a North Atlantic start, also do so. I would not have made any changes if the situation had been the one mentioned, what it was not, and Mr. Sjúrður Skaale had then said: I refrain from thinking anything about the formation of government, because I respect the fact that the voters in Denmark have composed the Folketing in such a way that there was a basis for a change of government. But that's sir. Decision of Skaale Sjúrður.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301132553	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301132554	That's it. Now I am not in the situation, said the Prime Minister, but it is important that you take the discussion while you are not in the situation because otherwise it is very whipped up. The reason I am asking this question today is that a vote on a motion of censure is scheduled for Wednesday in this Chamber. Again it is a "if" but it is good that you take the discussion when it does not happen and say: if it had happened. If it had been implemented and if we imagined that for political reasons, because of a supplementary package, because of tactical or strategic considerations, the Conservative People's Party had abstained, then we would have been given the mandate. The North Atlantic mandates would determine whether the Minister should sit or resign. However, the Minister has no mandate in the Faroe Islands, no possibility to legislate in the Faroe Islands at all. She has no influence on society or politics in the Faroe Islands. Personally, I would not have voted in favour of a motion of censure. I'll tell you what. I simply do not feel that this is a real mandate I have. It is not a democratic mandate that I have when I can cut down or give life to ministers who have no influence where my constituents come from. Does the Prime Minister think it is okay that in this situation I know it is hypothetical, but if it had been seen, because sooner or later it would have had the mandate to decide whether the minister should live or die?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301132708	The Stasminister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301132710	Yeah, I'd think so. Because we cannot bend one thing, namely that the Folketing consists of 179 members who are equal, and that is the way it is. After all, any parliamentarian is free to weigh with himself how to position himself in a particular case. One is bound by one's beliefs alone. That is what enables people from time to time to cast votes that are out of step with what the party they otherwise belong to stands for. That is also what would make it politically legitimate if, in a given situation such as that of the United States, we were to do so. elected in Greenland came to the conclusion that although one's voice could be decisive, one did not think that one had the political legitimacy to use it. That must be the decision of the individual Member of Parliament. But the bottom line is that the Folketing consists of 179 members who have an equal right to seek influence in this Things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301132814	Here you go, sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301132816	It is true that it is 179 who have equal rights to influence, but the background is that for four of us it is so that our voters do not pay taxes. They don't feel the consequences of what we do. That is why, I think, there is a difference between the four and all the others. The Prime Minister must agree with that. This is also a discussion that is in England. After all, we are discussing in England whether to deprive the Scottish members of Westminster of the opportunity to vote in purely English matters and to stick only to the British. The idea has also been thought in Denmark, for in section 32 of the Constitution. 5, it says that special rules can be laid down by law on the entry into force and termination of Faroese and Greenlandic parliamentary mandates. That is to say, the idea has been thought, even when the constitution was written. Now that it is in the Constitution, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister has any idea why this provision is in the Constitution and whether he can think of any situation in which the provision could or should be applied.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301132922	Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301132925	I have no knowledge at all of what in the original work of the constitution is the basis for precisely that wording. I must reserve the right to return to that later. I just want to repeat myself from before. In my view, therefore, the Folketing is a parliament consisting of 179 members who have equal and equal access to influence. If one then chooses to refrain from using it, thereby affecting the outcome somewhere, then it must be a matter for each member of parliament. If it's the case that at some point in this whole discussion about e.g. The Faroe Islands' relationship with Denmark arises pronounced Faroese wishes that we should adjust differently, so we must discuss them. But if so, it will require a revision of the constitution. That's a different angle to what I was just discussing with Mr. Knox. Sjúrður Skaales's colleagues from another Faroese party, namely that we are bound by the constitution we have. Therefore, in this case, as in other cases in this relationship, the Faroe Islands-Denmark, my call is to make your positions clear in the Faroe Islands. And when you have clear positions, we would like to discuss what they saw, I almost said, should be used for. How do you move on from there?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301133045	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Sjúrður Skaale and the Prime Minister. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301133103	Thank you. Then we look back home again, I was going to say, because it has to be said that the last few weeks have been marked by a government which has been mainly concerned with internal issues in the blue block. I think I feel like most other Danes, namely that it has been a rather strange process to witness, just as I can well say that the PM's handling of the situation speaks for itself. It has been special to witness and even worse: it has also, in my view, stood in the way of important political challenges that we are responsible for solving here in the Folketing, both in relation to the agricultural package and the environment. But there are also a number of other political issues which I shall come back to. I would first like to dwell on the agricultural package. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that our agricultural and food industries play a really, very important role for Denmark, which is why we also focused on improving the conditions of our time as a government, but obviously there must be a balance. It was therefore a pity that the government did not manage to reach a broad political agreement on agricultural policy. For a broad political agreement I think I had secured precisely the balance between combining our strong Danish traditions of environmental protection with a continued focus on growth and jobs. I think a broad agreement could also have provided the long-term framework for Danish agriculture, also for the benefit of the environment. I have to understand that the Prime Minister too believes that there is now an environmental bill to be paid. That is at least what the Prime Minister wrote on his, I think, preferred media, namely Facebook, last week: that negotiations on a so-called Supplementary Agreement should ensure that at the same time we can give food clusters better conditions of competition with respect for nature. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister: what green measures does the Prime Minister have in mind?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301133314	Here you go. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301133318	If so, it must be based on a misunderstanding, because it is the case that the food package voted through by the Danish Parliament, which is currently in a process of being confirmed and then implemented, exactly meets this: to give our food sector, which generates tens of thousands of jobs and large exports and thus wealth, some more competitive power in a way, so that, at the same time, we respect another thing that governs us, namely the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301133351	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301133353	Does that mean there won't be an amendment?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301133356	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301133358	That is to say, in relation to the question of whether there was an environmental bill hanging, I do not share that view. It is the case that the Folketing has adopted an agricultural package which at the same time gives agriculture better conditions of production; creates an opportunity to increase the raw material base; implements a paradigm shift in the way we regulate the environment; and undoubtedly in the long run is more gentle on the environment as a whole. That is the situation and that package stands. Does this mean that this government should not do anything else about agriculture and nature at all? No, of course it doesn't mean that. It is already part of the government's planning that we will be discussing a nature package later this spring, just as it is very clear from what has been agreed in the Danish Parliament that there is now a concrete implementation work in connection with this food package. That is why it will be the case that when the new Minister for the Environment and Food has just had an opportunity to orientate himself in his area, he will be in further discussions with the political parties of the Folketing who have an interest in being so. And the natural starting point here is, of course, the parties that voted through this food package.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301133528	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301133530	In my own way, I have actually come to like these questions a lot, because something quite unexpected always appears. In other words, at some point it was that a re-priority contribution, which is just another expression of negative growth, would not mean savings in the municipalities. And today I have to understand that there will not be an additional package. But where does that leave us? Because you had to understand, when you were following the blue debate over the last week, that there was a need for a supplementary package and that the political position was, I suppose, that there was not the balance in the agricultural package that is needed. And that has then been clear to us other than the blue debate. But does this mean that because the Minister ultimately chooses to resign, because the Prime Minister does not make the only decision that the Prime Minister should make in that situation, there will not be a supplementary package to the agricultural package? For that is quite new knowledge, not only for the Danish Parliament, but also for the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301133629	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301133631	I certainly believe that, in addition to the decisions that have already been taken, there will still be a need to take further decisions, including in this area of agriculture, nature and the environment. The government is, of course, prepared to do so, and it has always been part of our planning, among other things. After all, with the agricultural package in place, we should warm up to a large nature plan. And it will be the case that, by its very nature, the new minister will be responsive to the wishes of those parties which, together with the government, have been responsible for carrying through this package. But if we are asked about the government's priority, i.e. whether the government believes that we are left with what Mrs Mette Frederiksen called an environmental bill, which we therefore objectively need to pick up, then that is not the position of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301133729	Then it's Mrs. Mette Frederiksen for round two. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301133736	So I think in all silence it is only the Prime Minister who does not think this is strange and strange. For we have been going through a process for a week in which what we have had to understand has been the negotiation of a supplementary package on the environment and the question of what the government should look like. After all, these were two new phenomena in Danish politics, because it is usually the case that if the Folketing does not trust a minister, it does not continue to be a minister. This is, it might be said, one of our most solid parliamentary tools, which the Prime Minister has chosen to make a negotiating element on an equal footing with emissions of nitrogen into the Danish nature. It is new and, in my view, not commendable in terms of how a government should behave when the Folketing does not trust a minister. But the whole question of the supplementary package has to do with the question of nitrogen, i.e. whether there is the right balance between how much is emitted in the Danish nature, and our need to look after nature and, for example, ensure that we have proper drinking water. So I have to understand that there is not going to be an additional package and that what has been a clearly conservative demand, namely to improve the balance in agriculture, is not being met by the government. That brings me to the next question, because there are other challenges as well. And some of what the public has not really been able to hear as a result of the blue debate is the question of the ceiling on cash benefits. After all, we quickly became aware that a particular group would be caught up, namely people with great disabilities. We have tabled amendments, and there too the government has fallen into a minority because the Danish People's Party has changed its position, which is positive. But a lot of other people will get in trouble. That is why I have a specific question for the Prime Minister: does the Prime Minister agree that it was unfair to our disabled people, and how will it really be with single testers from here on out?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301133939	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301133942	I might just have to stay at the first part of what was then not the question, but just a few comments, because otherwise it will be floating in the air. There was talk of what it used to be like, and it is a banality that if a minister is met with mistrust in the Folketing, a minister cannot continue. Let me make this one hundred percent clear. Now it is the case that the Danish Parliament expresses its views in the Parliamentary Chamber, and can one express it from what I have said, as Mrs Mette Frederiksen did, so that one has to understand that nothing is going to happen? No, you can't. I have explained what is the government's starting point, and it must also be the Folketing's, because if a majority in the Folketing had thought that the food package could only be adopted if it had looked different from what was adopted, then surely it would not have been adopted. So an agricultural package has been adopted which we fully support for the reasons I mentioned before and in which we, as a government, do not see an independent need for its adjustment. We need to do everything else in the wake of it around nature, environment etc., and we are preparing it. Then we have read some political wishes, as we probably do in other contexts, and there has been a process which has been quite open and which was to see whether we could resolve a locked situation in such a way that confidence in the minister who was no longer trusted could be rebuilt. We didn't succeed, and that's why we're where we are now. In relation to the ceiling on cash benefits, the Left has gone to the polls on it, and we will continue to do so here afterwards. We think it is reasonable that, in a situation where there is an increase in employment and unemployment is falling, the figures on cash benefits do not develop as favourably as one might hope. That is why we are quite openly of the opinion that it should pay better to work, including for people who take work on very small incomes, and part of the solution is the ceiling on cash benefits. The second part of the solution we will return to in the autumn, and it is about following a 2025 plan, so that we can now make it a target, to give some tax relief to people with small labour incomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301134203	Thank you. Then there are two follow-up questions in 1⁄2 minutes each. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301134208	I first have a statement and then a question: in the years I have been to Christiansborg, I have not previously experienced a Prime Minister who has not immediately recognised a mistrust from the Folketing and has not immediately meant that a minister could not continue at his post. I haven't seen that before. So it is the Prime Minister who is introducing a new way of working, which I would not recommend that we then pursue. Then I turn to the specific question of the ceiling on cash benefits: why should there be an amendment from the Social Democratic Party in order for people with disabilities in Denmark to be able to earn a decent living income and hence also be able to pay for their rent?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301134243	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301134246	Well, this isn't about what I'm supposed to acknowledge. It is about the fact that some views have been expressed in the debate, with which the Minister is neutral, and then it is true that we have had an opportunity to overrule it and say that we are acting on it. Mrs Mette Frederiksen must, of course, know what standards she will adopt when that day comes. I myself have the view with regard to my ministers that if I do not think that they have done something that is attackable, then I do not simply lie down. That is how I am now put together, and it cannot be used at all to say anything that I do not respect democracy. I thought the wisest thing to do in the situation was to see if the trust that was lost could be restored. I really do want to stand guard over my ministers, and then I do not have an ambition to break historical records in how many people are replaced. As for the other, I can just say...
ParlaMint-DK_20160301134352	Thank you. It'll have to wait. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301134400	I think it has to be said that the Prime Minister here actually tells a lot about his view of both himself and the Folketing. For it is now the case that a majority in the Folketing decides whether or not there is confidence in the Minister and that distrust was expressed. Then it is not a question of the fact that there is a discussion of views ^ there was a majority in the Danish Parliament who had expressed that one no longer had confidence in a minister and a prime minister who chose to ignore it as a starting point. Unfortunately, then, we must continue the debate on the ceiling for cash aid, because it is still, I think, strange that it is an amendment by the Social Democratic Party that decides in the Assembly whether people with disability benefit can receive both a living income and a income base while at the same time paying their rent. Why does this require an amendment? Why can the government not organise its own policy so that it also takes account of people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301134444	Thank you. The prime minister in the end, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301134446	When it requires an amendment, it is because it was not included in the government's original draft law. That's the way it is. And then there is a democratic process. I don't know if it's very spectacular. I am, in fact, very pleased that the corner of the cash aid ceiling is being cut as it is now. After all, it does not alter what is left of us, namely that we have an effective ceiling on cash benefits, which ensures that working can pay for people on cash benefits, even in small-scale jobs. I think that is important. We went to the polls for that, and we are fulfilling it. It is also about promoting social mobility in this country and ensuring that, in a situation where employment is rising and unemployment is falling, we now also ensure that there are fewer people on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301134532	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301134538	Thank you, President. Thank you to the Prime Minister for his introduction. There are many issues that I think many Danes could have an interest in discussing in here, and the Grimhøjmosque is one of the topics on the agenda these days, among others. because of the documentary broadcast by TV 2 later today. It could be one subject. Another issue is what the Prime Minister mentioned at the beginning about refugee villages, where there has been a report that we in the Danish People's Party do not think answers to the questions that we would actually like answers to in relation to the eligibility of setting up refugee villages. But then there is also, if we are to look at everything in such a general way, a summit to which the Prime Minister is due on Monday in the European Union, and that is what I would like to concentrate on today's Question Time. The Prime Minister has to go down and discuss how to deal with the refugee and migrant crisis. Over a million people have arrived in the EU countries in 2015, and we can predict that in 2016 it will be very likely that it will be a pressure of similar size, perhaps even greater, because a mechanism has been created to give people the impression that it is worth moving from one continent to another, and if they cannot legally enter, then illegally try to break down fences, try to cross borders, they are not really allowed to cross, and thus enter the EU. This means that we in the European Union are seeing asylum shopping. We see people wandering around European countries to find out where they are going to settle, and as long as things are not under control, as long as the external borders are not under control • which is obviously not under control, and it is very difficult to see that they can be dealt with • we have to use a word or a term that the Prime Minister has used in the past, that then we have to take care of Denmark, and then we have to find out how best to look after Denmark. We in the Danish People's Party are happy that we have border controls, but could we not use the border controls we now have to say that people who come from Germany and want to seek asylum in Denmark have nothing to do in Denmark? You must seek asylum in Germany. They come from a safe country, and we have the right to reject them at the border and use border controls for the urgent procedure, which means that we are making our contribution to ensuring that people do not think that if you enter Europe first, you can do this shopping from country to country to find out where you intend to settle for a future life.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301134753	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301134757	I will certainly not deny that that approach can be part of a more permanent European solution. I share the basic view that we need to look at this situation with great seriousness, and it is frightening if Europe is to have +1 million immigrants and refugees again completely uncontrollable this year. That is why we need to start by getting the external borders under control. I have, of course, taken note of that initiative and I look forward to discussing it further with my colleagues who have gone around Austria with a number of Balkan countries, which are, in fact, building an extra external border by Macedonia, a Schengen border no. Two, up. It's also a bit of an analysis I'm doing here, and it's an attempt to be approachable. I think it is encouraging to resolve this issue because it creates a build-up in Greece, which means that in that Member State too, we must now become more involved in resolving this problem, and I believe that an overall solution needs to be found. Could an element of such an overall solution be the suspension of Dublin, as it were, because that is what is actually being asked for, by saying that one cannot pass from one safe country into the next and seek asylum? I will certainly not rule that out. Do I stand here and suggest that it is a step that Denmark takes, in other words into the blue, all alone? No, I'm not suggesting that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301134950	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301134953	The idea of Dublin, to which the Prime Minister refers, is to seek asylum in the first country to which you come. And it is also clear from the Dublin Convention that we should not be able to migrate from one country to another, but that we have the obligation that it is the first country to come to where the application for asylum should be made. So we can already see that when you come from Germany to Denmark, you have been illegally staying in Germany if you have not wanted your case to be dealt with there, and then you come to Denmark. And then we think that we have the right, under the Dublin Regulation, to reject people to Germany. There is nothing but the Dublin Convention that would prevent it, and it is probably the practice that has developed around Dublin that makes this problematic. That is why it is important for me to know, indeed, whether the Prime Minister is leaving with the basic position that we should have done away with this migration from country to country. And if one of the elements to ensure that we can avoid that migration, is that we are using the sensible border controls that we have now finally built up, among other things. on the Danish-German border, that is to say, to be able to make urgent procedures, and that could prevent people from coming to Denmark if they come from Germany. I do not assume that they will say that they are fleeing Chancellor Merkel, so they are probably not to consider as refugees in Denmark • then we should use that opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301135109	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301135111	Well, I'm going with the seriousness of finding a solution to these problems. And it is true that I read the texts myself; but now I have not prepared for such a big legal discussion about this that what makes it impossible to reject is Dublin. So you can return people to the first country in which they have put their feet in, and that is, if you come as an Afghan, then not Germany. Everything else equal unless you've flown in, it's not Germany in the normal situation. So it is Dublin that is preventing it. But it is also a system that is currently under attack and that is dysfunctional, just as the Schengen acquis is dysfunctional. And there you have to try to find an overall solution. In my optics, it helps to create what could be called the second line of defense in Macedonia, to sharpen the seriousness of Greece and, hopefully, also the appetite for a more effective border guard at the external border of Europe. If, in this context, where it is being built up, we also discuss whether further action is being taken, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl asks, so it's not something I'm going to stand here and reject. But I just think it would be wise for us in Denmark now to seek to influence a single European solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301135239	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301135242	However, it may well be that the overall European solution that the Prime Minister and others are very concerned about will only come if the countries show that they are prepared to take the task so seriously that they do what is necessary for others to see that they have to do something else. Well, maybe that's the order. It may well be that the fact that we have established border controls actually means that there are more people around Europe who realise that it is smoking mad. It may well be that if we use border controls to reject people who come from the peaceful country of Germany to seek asylum in Denmark or illegally move on through Denmark to search in Sweden, or whatever it may be, then they know that you are turned around at the border by an expedited procedure and come back to Germany then it sits down in that there are others who say: Well now we have to make things work. But we just have the starting point in the Danish People's Party that we start by looking after Denmark, and then, while we are looking out for Denmark, we hope that there are some people out in Europe who also understand the seriousness of this, and as the Prime Minister also says: he goes down there and tries to get the others along with it. But the order must be that we take care of Denmark first and hope that larger solutions will develop out there. We cannot wait for the major solutions in European cooperation until we take care of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301135349	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301135352	We take care of Denmark. And we have taken a number of steps which I believe both the questioner and I will say jointly are steps which, when we took them, were criticised more than is now the case here, where we have taken them. That is why we have seen a growth in the number of asylum seekers in Denmark in a combination of conditions of residence, but certainly not in line with what we have seen in Germany and Sweden. It's a reflection of what we've done. And I certainly do not exclude that more can be done. I am just expressing my deep opinion that the seriousness of the situation is emerging in Europe, so I am beginning to believe that something can happen as well. And I don't rule out anything, including this instrument, that you say: if you pass through a safe country, it stops here. After all, this is also the legislation that is on the way in Norway. I'm not ruling it out. I just think that that attitude and openness right now and here in the situation is best played into a debate in Europe which is there on Monday but which will then be there again ten days later. Right now, we can welcome the fact that there is no pressure on the borders of the country. This is due to winter, and it is also due to what is happening in Macedonia at the moment, which is why we have a little breathing space to give the attempt to find a European effective solution a chance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301135517	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301135526	Over the last few weeks, we have witnessed a process in which the former Minister for Food and the Environment claimed that the agricultural package would improve the environment from year one, while a very large number of experts have shown, on the contrary, that it is not true that there will be more pollution for a number of years and that figures have been tampered with. This isn't just a question of numbers and inventory methods. Specifically, it is about whether more nitrogen comes into our nature; it is about whether we should again experience oxygen loss in our fjords and streams and see fish lying up with the belly in the air; it is about whether fishermen should have some fish to catch, and it is about the drinking water of all of us. Now the former minister has resigned, but I could understand at the Prime Minister's press conference last week that the Prime Minister has taken note of the figures and that the Prime Minister does not think that there is anything wrong with the figures and information that has been presented here in the Folketing. I think that's quite a statement. Against this background, I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister, under the responsibility of the Danish Parliament, will maintain that the agricultural package's initiatives in isolation will not lead to an increase in nitrogen emissions in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301135656	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301135700	No, of course I don't, because it does. I do not think that is the case either. I think we should be careful how we use the words. They may get out of our mouths a little quickly. And a discussion that starts with whether or not something is right will then become that it is misleading, and then it is a lie. Well, I'm gonna have to ask you to excuse me for some seriousness and seriousness in this discussion. A large number of questions have been asked by the Parliamentary Assembly to be exactly the same for this draft law L 68, which has been answered by the former minister, who has been consulted, etc. I believe that everything has been put forward in this regard and that there has been an opportunity to ask questions about it. Then you can draw different political conclusions as to where it is going to be Denmark and whether you want to have the view that a package itself should have certain effects, or whether that package should be looked up against a number of other things that are happening at the same time, for example. the structural development of agricultural land, which has been laid out for roads and other purposes. This can be politically balanced as you wish, but I still believe that no incorrect information has been provided. That's what I have to say. Then one can always discuss whether something could have been made clearer, if some things could have been better explained, but it is like another discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301135840	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301135843	I very much believe that this is a serious matter. It is serious when we discuss whether we can trust the information that comes from ministers, and it is also very serious whether we pollute our drinking water and our aquatic environment more. I am pleased that we will be able to establish from the Prime Minister that more nitrogen will be emitted in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. I'd like to ask you about this baseline effect that has been discussed so much. Does the Prime Minister agree with the criticism made by all researchers of the way the government uses the so-called baseline effect? That was my question. 1. Then there is the second question. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, and I would like to remind you that we are in the Parliamentary Chamber at any time whether the Prime Minister or the Government has received warnings from his official work or from subordinate agencies that the agricultural package could bring us into conflict with EU directives?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301135948	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301135953	May I not say that it is the case that, in isolation from each of the years 2016-2019, this package is an additional emitter. This is clear from the information sent to the Folketing and it is clear that the long-term effects are positive. That's what I'm saying. And then one can of course welcome the fact that the underlying improvement due to other factors, what is referred to as the so-called baseline, is as it is, whereby it is possible to give agriculture these levels of freedom in the short term, with respect for the environment. It is politically possible to disagree with that, and that is fair enough, but it is government policy. I am pleased that the majority of the Folketing voted through it. In relation to the whole issue of the European Union, I can only say, and it is also clear from the legislative proposal itself, that the government is fully aware of the fact that there is also an EU legal angle to the implementation of this package and that there is also a dialogue with the EU system on this issue. This has been taken directly into account in the text of the agreement. So it's not weird. And that is why it would not be strange if the Minister were to take the floor, but now I am not personally the Resort Minister here, who has had a dialogue with his official work on the relationship between government policy and EU law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301140125	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301140127	The Prime Minister says, "So... That's why it wouldn't be weird if... But that's not what I asked. I wonder if ministers are and it must be possible to answer that question, so not such a thing as that one could imagine that... It must be possible to give a very clear answer to that question. I didn't get an answer to what was about baseline, we can take that at another time. Let us concentrate on this with the EU directives. Have ministers or Prime Minister been warned?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301140214	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301140215	I have to say that, to that extent, I do not understand the question, because it is clear from the agreement that full attention is paid to the fact that what is proposed for adoption is dependent on a subsequent dialogue with the European Union. So that is clear, so there is no need for warnings.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301140245	Thank you. Then it's mr. Anders Samuelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301140255	Thank you. Let me start by saying briefly that it was a horrible week last week. It was a hard fight; dirty tricks were used; they were tackled through. It wasn't pretty to watch everyone keep up, and it ended up with the sad result that Liverpool lost to Manchester City in the Capitol One Cup final. It wasn't nice in any way. But once it has been established, there are bigger matters on the agenda and there are new battles to be won. Luckily it was just the little league cup final; it wasn't the big one, and it wasn't the championship. What we are faced with, and hopefully we are about to spend our time in the Folketing, is really getting Denmark on the right track. New figures came as recently as yesterday that our gross domestic product does not increase significantly in relation to the outside world. That's actually how it is, and I think there are a lot of Danes who may not be aware that if you look over a long period of years, from 2008 until 2015, things are really bad. I've brought some numbers, as some have also seen yesterday. Denmark has actually become poorer since 2008, whereas for example. Sweden's gross domestic product has increased by 12%, the US by 11%, the Germans by 7%. and the EU average by 2%. It means fewer opportunities for us Danes, it means fewer opportunities to invest in our health system and in our education system. That is why I would just like the Prime Minister to start by confirming that the need for reform has not actually been reduced by the figures we have most recently received from the last quarter; it has increased.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301140444	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301140446	Thank you. But it is true that growth is weak, even though it is there, and one should nevertheless rejoice that it is. This also means that employment is increasing and unemployment is decreasing. Private employment has increased by 82,000 since we hit the low point in 2012. The housing market is characterised by low interest rates; there are higher incomes and greater job security for families. There are also some positive signs, and that is why it is not only I think that there will be some people who, when this view of Swedish growth is promoted, will say: yes, they may have a set of other challenges to a very different extent than we have at present, because that is the way GDP is linked: many refugees in, many public expenditures, new accommodation opportunities. It creates demand, it creates GDP growth I'd probably rather be without it. But that doesn't shake the fact that we have some challenges. That is precisely why we have set up a roadmap now that we are throwing a longer light on the Danish economy in 2025 perspective, so that we can clarify what the world looks like with this terrible other equal concept and what it takes to make it look brighter. If we are to achieve what is, I believe and hope, the ambitions of all of us, namely to develop a proper welfare society in which we look after our old, our sick, make sure that our children learn something more than we learned ourselves, develop Danish research, but also have a business that is competitive on taxes and wages, then I certainly do not rule out the need for more reforms.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301140639	Here you go, sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301140641	Thank you. The reason why I mention it, of course, is that from year to year and from quarter to quarter it is not necessarily something we notice, that is that we are lagging behind, because that is really what we are doing when we see it over a longer period of time, even a period in which we have talked about in Denmark that we were going through a process of reform. I think it was the previous Prime Minister who used the word reformamok. During the previous reign of the Prime Minister, some quite major reforms were also carried out in the latter part, but despite that, we are one of the countries that has come out most of the way on the other side of the financial crisis. Another figure I brought illustrates this. Again: The Swedes and the Americans come out of it significantly better. Denmark is in a purely snail's pace and it is at a time when it is difficult to see that there is actually a significant majority in the Folketing to do something significant about it. I find that extremely problematic. Therefore, could one get a few more concrete examples of some of what the Prime Minister might be baking up to in the autumn?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301140755	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301140758	No, you can't do that, and of course I could stop there. But I think that what is needed is also according to the discussion we have just had about agriculture, about the safeguarding of ownership, and that what is adopted also says there, and that the full effects are clear for all and the kind of things that we are spending spring here on calculating the Danish economy in 2025 perspective and unfolding what the world looks like with an unyielded hand. I mean, if we do not do something, if we do not make some decisions, what kind of future do we not have tomorrow, because it will be okay, but in 5, 10 years' time? I think that's the smart way to do it. And without prejudging the fact that we have done so and hopefully have created the framework for a debate that goes beyond the hour of question time here, so also extends into Danish society, then I hope and believe that it will also mature a readiness to make the necessary decisions. Because I can see that if we want to achieve these two things at one and the same time: continuing to develop the welfare society and ensuring that there is competitive power and that there are more people who are self-supporting and thus can take care of their own close well-being, then we are not in the goal of making decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301140918	Sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301140920	I agree very much. What was basically a little problematic or very problematical, I think, in the election campaign we have been through, was that it ended very much in a discussion of how big the public sector should be, how much it should grow or not grow, when our problem really is that we have a too small private sector. I mean, if you're going to illustrate this figuratively, in Denmark we have a public sector of this size and a private sector of this size, but in a country such as Denmark. Switzerland has figuratively spoken a perhaps twice as large private sector. And that means that you can afford to finance a strong welfare society, but that you can afford to do so while at the same time citizens are not being taxed on fire. That is why it is really important that we turn it around now, so that we start discussing how to make the private sector grow significantly. It also has some derived effects that are positive, for example. That you get fewer of a youth year that gets lost. In Denmark, up to 20% do not receive youth education. In Switzerland, for example, it is. only 6%. Why? Because there is a much greater feature from the private labour market to, for example, the labour market. creating private placements, creating training opportunities and creating a perspective for getting a job, including in the private sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301141037	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301141039	I fully agree that growth is a prerequisite for prosperity and that prosperity is a prerequisite for prosperity, because it only makes sense to discuss everything we normally spend the most time discussing, namely how much money we allocate in the Finance Act in here for high schools and hospitals and municipalities and thus primary schools etc., if the money is earned first. So I kind of agree with that. Then there is another aspect which concerns the fact that it does not quite matter how we use public expenditure, and that is the second reason why we have put a road map here. Our ability to get all the migratory and refugee pressure we have on Europe, on Denmark, according to what I spoke to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl about, under control and our ability to handle it is of course determining what we can do further forward. For if we do not do it better than what we have done historically, where only 1 in 10 are in work after 1 year and where less than 3 in 10 are in work after 3 years, then the whole room for manoeuvre that could be used either to invest in close welfare, i.e. in the form of tax cuts, or to invest in collective welfare, research, education, will be eaten up. That's why we've set up the roadmap in such a way that now we're trying to get it under control in the spring so that this piece stands still when we're going to make this 2025 plan. Then I look forward very much to the fact that, when it is published after the summer holidays, there will be a course of negotiations in which I count on the Liberal Alliance, but hopefully also many more parties than the government and the Liberal Alliance. For there is a need to draw a more hopeful perspective for Danish economy in such a perspective of 5, 10, 15 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301141218	Thank you. The next one is sir. Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301141226	Thank you. My questions are going to start in a slightly different place than they usually do, and actually arise from some personal considerations after the last question hour. After all, we have had these questions with the Prime Minister for six months and we know the dramaturgy: three quick questions and three quick answers. And then the commentators and journalists sit up on the first floor and write whether the Prime Minister has a good shape curve or not, or whether we party leaders look mentally fit for fight, and what the political landscape really looks like from the questions we ask. When I last walked down from here, I was wondering how these questions give value at all. How does the Prime Minister view the value we create by virtue of the type of questioning hour that we, for example, have. Do you have today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301141328	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301141333	Yeah, I guess I'm not the only one who's gonna be the judge of that. I mean, I'm trying to answer on the basis of what's being asked. I think, in fact, that a moment ago I had an excellent dialogue with Mr Beazley. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who in fact brought the debate around Denmark into a European asylum settlement one step further forward. We had a discussion about the understanding of the Dublin Regulation, which has not been discussed in outer space. I can't even know if it's being taken down. It is not always the case that those who sit and follow the political debate throw themselves at the news, which is perhaps the most substantial, and I therefore share the view that it is often also about some of the other things, such as how we look and things like that. But I think, for example. even that I had a meaningful debate on that point just now. So, yeah. I think so, and at least it will be the case that as long as the Folketing thinks I should come, I will come.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301141443	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301141445	Personally, I am quite comfortable with having the opportunity to ask questions to the Prime Minister, and in fact I also think that the Prime Minister answers the questions that are being asked very well. And the reason why I am asking the question is, of course, that in the alternative we are concerned about how to have proper, meaningful political discussions and discussions, whether we agree with each other or not. Now I understand that the Prime Minister had a good conversation with our colleague sitting right behind me, and that is really nice, but could the Prime Minister give an example of some of the discussions we have had during these questioning hours, which actually meant that the Prime Minister has subsequently gone out and taken a different action than the Prime Minister would have done if that conversation had not taken place in here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301141544	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301141547	I do not know if one can have such a concrete approach to it. I think it might be a bit of an illusion to imagine that on Tuesday three short exchanges of words would suddenly have to put a case in a completely different light. And I guess very few of life's conversations really have that effect. But I guess it helps to form a picture and an understanding. I myself, when asked, have enjoyed this dialogue with the North Atlantic Members. So it's not every time we have question time, but periodically. I have also followed up on it, had bilateral meetings with some of the North Atlantic members. I observe in what I talked to them about before that there is such a movement in what it really is for a function you want as a North Atlantic MP. It's breaking up, and it's affecting me. I find that interesting. Anyway, I'm not able to point to an example like this where I've gone in and thought we're gonna make a violet solution, and then I've gone out and thought the world is yellow, or something like that. But perhaps it is also too high an ambition level.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301141658	Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301141658-2	It may seem a little bit, I would not say naive or trivial to ask these questions, but I actually think that many of those who sit and follow these debates on television are happy to hear what kind of considerations the Prime Minister is actually making through the conversations we have here. Now there was the example of the political leader of the Danish People's Party just before, but also in relation to the debate with the Greenlandic representatives, the way we talk about and to each other in the Chamber actually means something. So I appreciate the answer from the Prime Minister. Well, it makes sense to me, and then I hope it makes sense to those who sit out there watching. So thank you for that. After all, it is the habit of the Members of the Alternative who are asking the last question, and what lies with us, who represent the alternative in here and the Members, is the green agenda. You have then asked this question to the Prime Minister: what are the government's plans for ratifying the COP21 agreement? Fiji is the first country to ratify the agreement and it really means a lot what it is for some countries that go out and ratify the agreement and how quickly they do it. So what are the government's considerations on this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301141820	The Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301141822	I should be able to answer that on a stand-by basis, and I very much regret that I cannot. It must simply be said that my ability to understand clearly has hit its limits. I am aware that there must be an event in New York to sign the protocols. Unfortunately, I do not remember the date at present. Denmark will, of course, be represented, and when I do not remember the date, it is because I do not have the opportunity to participate myself. But, of course, we will be represented at the signing event that is taking place.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301141907	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk. The next one is sir. Morten Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301141914	Now, I don't know if I misunderstood sir. Mr Uffe Elbæk, but I should like to pay tribute to my colleagues. In fact, I think it has been some interesting things that have been discussed so far. That's the advantage of sitting in the back a bit here in questioning class. Both the cash aid ceiling, the EU refugee crisis and Denmark's economic challenges are crucial issues, all of which deserve longer discussions than we may have time for today. But the crucial issue that concerns me now is whether we could not together have the ambition to have an agricultural policy where we had an agriculture that was economically and environmentally sustainable at the same time, so that, as we see with what has been put forward by the government, we do not have to go one way and then the other way, that is, where we try to get things to play together. After all, it has been a turbulent week in Danish politics, where the Prime Minister has shown that he is willing to play high games. And it is entirely the PM's own business when it comes to how to run government. But what interests many people, I think, is that there is apparently also a willingness on the part of the government to play high games with the Danish aquatic environment. As I said, I am in the back of the debate. And I understand from the first answer given to Mrs Mette Frederiksen that, according to the Prime Minister, there is no green bill hanging. When Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen asked questions, the Prime Minister acknowledged that it is quite clear that the agricultural package increases nitrogen emissions. And for an untrained ear it may sound as if it is not connected, but we know the Prime Minister well enough to know that the words have probably been carefully chosen. What was the big discussion and is the big discussion is whether the sum of the initiatives that have been taken means that there is a green plus or not and that it is not once a game of mathematics on DR Ramasjang, but actually quite concrete is about what the effect is of the overall policy for the Danish aquatic environment in the coming years. That is why I am just asking the Prime Minister: is there or is there not a green plus on the bottom line of the policy now being pursued over the next three years?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301142120	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301142122	I am a little concerned about what the overall effect is in the country with regard to what is happening, what is being done and what is being decided. Well, that's pretty much it. I do not intend to engage in a very, very technical discussion here, but it is obvious that the things that are closely linked to some political conclusions about this agricultural package will result in more nitrogen over a three-year period and in the long term a positive effect by following up on this whole paradigm shift with targeted regulation. So the question is, is there room for that, for that nitrogen swell? And you can read this from the material that has been put forward and the agreement that has been made, that you estimate that a number of other things have been given, which I shall refrain from going into detail about. That's what's called baseline, structural development and other things. That is why it is the government's assessment, which we also share with a majority in the Danish Parliament, that has adopted what has been approved here, which is currently under confirmation, if it is not confirmed that it is environmentally sound to implement this agricultural policy, which is, moreover, - and this has just been said in a parenthesis - from words to words matches what we were going to vote on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301142247	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301142249	I think the words here are important. What was said by the former Minister for the Environment and Food was that there was a green plus. The Prime Minister skilfully ignores the many words that were given back in his reply. For that is what is central when it comes to whether you are gambling not only with the aquatic environment in the long term, but also with the Danish rural programme, which many are deeply dependent on. That is what is at stake if the EU directives are not complied with. In any case, in the answers given to the Danish Parliament, it is recognised that precisely this question is because it says: "Special in relation to the obligation to protect against deterioration of the aquatic environment in the period 2016-18, there are, however, EU risks associated with the approach where the relaxations are implemented immediately, while structural developments come over the years. • Therefore, it is crucial whether it is the Prime Minister's opinion that we know that this agricultural package has been knitted together at Marienborg • that there is a green plus in the years 2016, 2017 and 2018 on the bottom line, or whether it is on expected after grant.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301142357	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301142359	May I not say thank you very much because it was read out, because it shows just what you might have been a little in doubt about, I think, if you had followed this from the outside: that there are, in fact, no things that have been hidden or disguised. Well, things have been unfolded. One can always discuss whether things could be folded out more, but the picture that has been created of incorrect information being provided and that some people should have lied, I certainly cannot recognize that I think that is also confirmed by the one reading. It is undoubtedly the case that the paradigm shift that is now being carried out in Danish agriculture, where we make targeted regulation in the future, so that on the robust soils something more and on other lands can be done less, in the long term is a pure plus. It's undoubtedly that way. Then you can see from the material that you have a more technical discussion with the Minister for the Environment and Food that in isolation as a result of these decisions, i.e. narrowly, there is something more nitrogen in 2016, 2017 and 2018. And that is what we are assessing for the reasons that are also included in the agreement and the figures that lie behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301142515	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301142517	I am sorry, Prime Minister, but the point here is that it is precisely the question that the Prime Minister here will not answer, namely whether there is a plus or not, which has been the focal point of the discussion. For the figures presented, when dissected by scientists, led to a conclusion from a broad circle of parties that it was not true that there was a green plus. By its very nature, it is absolutely crucial to the aquatic environment if we are to lose out on relaxations now in the expectation of being able to introduce targeted regulation at a later stage. It reminds me of the discussion when the Left invented the peripheral zones, from which they were then run when they were to become a concrete reality. That is why the big question here is whether it is the government's view that the bottom line is in order. We were told by the then Minister for the Environment and Food that there was a green plus. Researchers who looked at it said: there are no figures added together to make it look like that. It was also the conclusion of one of the parties to the agreement that was the reason for the whole miser. And then, in three attempts today, despite the Prime Minister's claim to have thoroughly put himself into it, you can't get a clear answer to what the government's overall view is: Is there or isn't there a green plus in each of the years 2016, 2017 and 2018? If you cannot answer that, then you cannot claim to be thoroughly involved in the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301142637	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301142639	I do not know whether I particularly claim to have been thoroughly involved in this matter. I think I said that I had informed myself of the figures and could not confirm the impression that what had to be given was very, very quickly turned into lying information. And maybe it's just a little bit of a line compared to sir. Uffe Elbæk before, when we talk about the tone and stuff. That something that starts out as a discussion about whether things have been properly unfolded enough, one-two-three becomes some have misled some, and three-four-five into being lied. There I think we should take great care of the Danish language. It is the case, and I have said this several times, that in the short term, where we need to get agriculture going and where the targeted regulation has not yet been implemented, when we look at the impact of the package's initiatives, in isolation from the point of view of isolation! I have said that here, and that is not news. However, after a few years, the initiatives in the package have a positive impact on the environment. That's the way it is. At the same time, one can welcome the fact that there is an underlying improvement as a result of other factors, and that is what makes us judge and that a majority in the Folketing considers that this package is connected. It is linked, it is assessed, with the risks in relation to EU law, with regard to the economy, with regard to the environment. And if that were not the case, I suppose a majority in the Folketing would not have adopted the package either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301142757	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301142804	I do not think it surprises anyone that I will continue in the path followed by both the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the Socialists. Because I think it is quite crucial what is going to happen to the Danish aquatic environment in the coming years. And I think it is good that the Prime Minister has now clearly confirmed that there are 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 will be about emissions of more nitrogen into our aquatic environment. I think it's a good thing we've made that clear now. What does the Prime Minister intend to do about that agenda? For when the Prime Minister Friday evening offered the Conservative People's Party a green supplementary package and now in the Parliamentary Chamber today speaks of a great nature plan, which I think were the words, I would like to ask a question. After all, there is a difference between a natural plan and really solving the issue of nitrogen in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. What is it the Prime Minister imagines to be delivered on? Is it nitrogen, or is it more nature, and does the Prime Minister intend to deliver on the promise made on Friday evening to the Conservative People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301142910	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301142912	But I do not know what exactly is meant by Friday night and where Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr might have his information from. What I know, however, is that on Thursday the Danish Parliament adopted an agricultural package which has the profile I have also mentioned here without even being an expert and which has been adopted by the Danish Parliament. It expresses government policy and we are very pleased that we have come through with our policy. So we really don't have any need for it. Then we have an ambition to continue working on nature, which is why we have a great nature plan on the wallpaper. And we also know very well that there is some work on implementation. There are some things, and we have been brief about them here, that this package is to some extent dialogue-based in relation to the European Union and other things, and therefore a situation may well arise where some things need to be adjusted. But basically, this package has been adopted and it represents a good agricultural policy. It gives our food sector an opportunity to be able to do something more to the benefit of the slaughterhouse worker and dairy stone and the farmer and the export driver and all the other tens of thousands of Danes who live on our food sector. And it does so in a way that we can be familiar with the environment in every way. And, yes, with a little approach, it is also a package that really improves the environmental situation, because it shifts to targeted regulation. So we're kind of happy. If others then have some requests, we will of course take them down and engage in dialogue. And it is a task for the new Minister for the Environment and Food, who will reasonably just need a few days to brief himself in his new resort.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301143106	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301143108	Now I have noted that the Prime Minister says that what will be of nitrogen emissions in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 will be dialogue-based, and that this will depend on a dialogue with the European Commission. Then I am sure that the Prime Minister has noted that a reply has also been received from the 117 answers which have been received in connection with the agricultural package. 24. And in answer No. It is very clear that the Commission expects to take legal action against Denmark if the EU Water Framework Directive is not complied with. After all, the EU's Water Framework Directive says that good ecological conditions must be met. Denmark will be the only country in the European Union that chooses to go back in relation to the demands made in relation to our water framework. Countries that have either delivered too late or too little have been convicted in the past by the European Court of Justice. So when the Prime Minister says it's dialogue-based and I'm always on the dialogue-based, and I think the Alternative will also feel completely covered by this dialogue-based issue, I'll ask the Prime Minister if that means that the Prime Minister will change the elements of his agricultural package in order to exactly meet the requirements of the EU Water Framework Directive. Or does it mean, in dialogue-based terms, taking a case before the European Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301143222	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301143224	I am very sorry, but I have not read 117 answers to 117 questions. I don't really need that either. I have dealt with such quite simple things: what were we going to vote on? What did we promise the Danes? And, of course, being a little concerned about it is an innovation, but I am very concerned about it. Well, what did we promise the Danes? We promised them a 16-point plan, and we have then worked to implement it in full respect of the considerations that need to be taken into account when implementing our policy, namely that the money must be there, the basis must be there and the legal framework must be in place. The challenges that have been faced in this regard are fully reflected in the legislative package that the Folketing has dealt with and adopted. And that is why I am quite happy that this policy has been adopted. Does this mean that there are zero more challenges? It probably does not, and that is precisely why I appointed yesterday an Environment and Food Minister who will be responsible for it and to whom I must refer for a further technical discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301143331	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301143333	It's not really that technical. It is simply that the European Commission sets out very clearly what happens if you do not intend to comply with the EU Water Framework Directive and based on the agricultural package that the government had on slipping, the Commission considered on 27 November that it does not comply with it. Subsequently, the figures were changed so that a compilation of the figures for 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 was made, it was the so-called star that was missing and vapti, suddenly the result looked better, and the Commission seemed to be happier immediately. Peace be to it. I have no doubt that the Commission will come after the government, and if that means that a solution will then be found for the Danish aquatic environment, then that is a good thing. The Prime Minister gets it set up as if it is agriculture versus nature and the environment. It's not for me. In my view, agriculture and nature and the environment must, of course, be concerned with a higher unit. I'm also interested in having jobs in agriculture in Denmark, which is why I'm a little interested in the offer that housed out there, perhaps not via the PM's facebook page, but via several Conservatives facebook pages. There was an offer on the table for a green addition to the Conservatives. I would just like to ask: did you really have a choice between the Minister walking or a green adjustment? Was that an offer the Prime Minister made?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301143449	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301143452	This is not something I recognize, nor is it something I would like to engage in any dialogue on here either. I have taken an overall view of the situation that arose last week, at least for a while it was clear that there was no confidence in one of my ministers who, in my view, has faithfully and with great punctuality implemented not only the policy of the government, but also the policy on which the Left was elected together with the Conservative People's Party and the Danish People's Party, in other words the 16-point plan. That is why we had a talk about it and a number of other things, and afterwards it has happened that the Minister has resigned, and that is why we are where we are. So we are where the Folketing has adopted an agricultural policy with which I am extremely pleased and which honours the promises on which we were elected. It is our view that this is also done on a professional, factual and legal basis which is in order. This is clear from the material, where the challenges may be, and the government is pleased with that. Then we have an ambition to continue to be in good dialogue with those who have adopted this package with us and, moreover, to put nature and the environment high on the agenda, which is why a number of initiatives will be taken in the field of nature and the environment this spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301143614	Thank you to the Prime Minister and thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Then that's the last question, and it's from Mr. Knox. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301143622	Thank you. It hardly takes a university degree in communication to see that there has been some wave of our cooperation in the past, but then it is good that what characterises strong cooperation is that, no matter how disagreeable you are, you will find together on what is important, and we are also looking forward to working with the new minister and to continuing constructive discussions on the environmental measures that are now needed. Then I will move on to something completely different. After all, the Conservative People's Party was 100 years old very recently, and even though some might have wished that they had died, we are going to live on, and in this connection we have published a Vision 2034. It points forward to what it is for a society that the children born in 2016 should experience when they are 18 years of age, and it is not a faction for society, it is not an economic plan or a new party programme, but it is an attempt to free themselves for a short time to free themselves from everyday political debate and conciliation and present some ideas to ensure a really good society forward-looking. But even if that document is pointing a long way forward, it is already drawing some leads now. If we now take defence, it is our vision that in 2034 Denmark will live up to NATO's musketeered and give priority to 2%. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply. But our security does not come on its own, we must safeguard it, and so I would like to hear the Prime Minister's reaction to the fact that we have been able to see very clearly this weekend that the United States wants us to strengthen and spend more resources on our defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301143821	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301143824	Thank you. After all, we have a defence settlement which we have jointly concluded and in which we have taken a peace-diving home. I do not know whether one can afford to call it that, but somewhere after the fall of the Berlin Wall a few years later, after the fall of the Berlin Wall, we have in fact taken the gain home from the idea that now we were in a completely new place and that Russia was a cooperative size with which we should only develop positive relations, and that is the settlement there, and that is the case. And it will not take so long before we start a debate on what is going on on the other side, and I cannot stand by and pre-discount that. We've got a job going. There is both this special Peter Taksøe-Jensen committee that looks at how Danish foreign and security policy and a number of other foreign policy tools can be seen in a context, and also in other ways we prepare ourselves, and then we have to take that discussion. For me, it can never be the case that in relation to a level of appropriations, and this is the case in any area, it can just be the amount that is governing, but it has to start the other place: what is it we want? What should a Danish defence be able to do? How do we cooperate with others? And what's it gonna take? I know we don't use 2%. I also know, however, that we in Denmark are widely recognised for delivering, that is to say that we, measured on our output, are really delivering more than our input, and that is why, in these discussions with our allies in NATO, I will of course insist that the right discussion is the effects of what we are doing, and not only how much money we spend on it. With that I hope that on an enlightened basis we can have this discussion at some point, and I look forward to it very much, because it must also start in this circle. It is a little difficult to see who is going to put the government in a minority in favour of a higher defence budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301144038	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301144042	I took it as a friendly reception. After all, it is not only international that our security is under pressure. This is indeed the case in our dear homeland. We have recently seen that it has been poured out with ugly stories from Denmark. Many may not have known about it. We have seen cynical thefts in shops where employees just stand and watch when young men or young people in groups with the greatest naturalness look at everyday rules and take whatever suits them. That is one thing we are experiencing. Another thing we experience is hateful and undemocratic utterances in the Grimhøjmosque, which calls for child violence and for adulterers to be punished with stoning. We have a slip of value in this society, which is gradually becoming completely obvious, and therefore our warning lights need to blink. I would like to hear it there. I know it's a very open question, but I actually think it's important that we talk about it and that we do it all the time. Because I fear a lot about how this society is going to be connected if we don't deal with it, too, quite strongly. 'Cause it's... 'cause it's...
ParlaMint-DK_20160301144157	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301144158	First of all, I have to say that I am one hundred per cent in agreement with the description, but it falls outside 57 seconds to be able to give the comprehensive answer. We also have a question debate on Friday, which is a bit about the same thing. But that's exactly why we're so concerned about, among other things. to get immigration under control, because the number that comes in and that we need to integrate is significant for our ability to do so in the future. Then it's something of consistency. That is also why we are jointly pursuing the legal policy we are pursuing and have a Minister of Justice who, as such, has an ongoing readiness to sharpen the tone. That is why we have made an agreement on the police to give the police more resources so that we not only have rules but also have the opportunity to put them through. That is why we have to run a primary school where the children learn something, because that is the prerequisite for moving on from primary school into the labour market and getting hold of life rather than being tempted by crime or other. It starts there. So there are no fingertips solutions, but I do share the analysis completely, and perhaps also because I think that we see the same thing in the analysis that the events of the last year with the pressure on Europe may have made the whole population get an insight into something that has probably been there for a while, but not all of them have been focused on. And if you're going to find something good in the bad, it has to be that these obvious challenges are also being used for action.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301144331	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301144332	One of our suggestions in this Vision 2034 is a stronger, coherent Denmark. This requires that we combat anti-democratic behaviour and violent extremism. This means that the parallel societies that are unfortunately in our country must be completely cleaned up. The number of ghettos should be zero and we must prevent and combat all radicalised environments. We therefore believe that it should be possible to punish religions that do not meet Danish democratic standards. If preachers or others who speak on behalf of a religion encourage violence, they must be expelled, if possible, and their status as religious communities must be taken away from them. And notorious hate preachers must per. automatic refusal of entry into Denmark. Is this a proposal in which the Prime Minister can see himself?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301144426	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301144429	In fact, I very much agree that one should be very little tolerant. Then there are limits elsewhere, that is to say freedom of expression and constitution, but I am quite in line with the fact that we have to take the gloves off. That is why the Minister for Integration and the Minister for Justice have also taken the initiative in the wake of the recent horrifying things that we have seen from the Grimmøjmoskeen to look at in relation to some specific people involved: On what basis are they really in Denmark? Is there anything you can do? Because I very much agree that we need to send out some signals that we are not tolerant of the intolerant.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301144511	We thank the Prime Minister. This is the end of Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301144522	I've got a couple of messages. I was informed by the Prime Minister that, per year, 29 February 2016 has been implemented by government changes. The message will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 29 February 2016 of 29 February 2016 has decided to dismiss Eva Kjer Hansen, Commander of the Order of Dannebrog, from her previously entrusted ministerial position, to exempt Esben Lunde Larsen, Minister for Education and Research from this position and to appoint him Minister for the Environment and Food, and to appoint former Minister, Member of the European Parliament Ulla Pedersen Tørnæs, Commander of the Order of Dannebrog, as Minister for Education and Research. I would ask the President to inform Parliament accordingly. Members of the Danish Parliament Nicolai Wammen (S), Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen (EL), Josephine Fock (ALT), Ida Auken (RV) and Jonas Dahl (SF) have informed me that they wish to withdraw Question F 24 to the Minister for the Environment and Food: The question has now been dropped. Today there are the following reviews: Eva Flyvholm (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. 78 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the modification of interest rates for SU loans during the period of study). Karsten Hønge (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. 80 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a retirement pension scheme). Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. 81 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on EU support for calf rearing). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20160301144624	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 25 by Trine Bramsen (S), Jan E. Jørgensen (V), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV), Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and Mai Mercado (KF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 61 (S, V, RV, SF and KF), against 43 (LA, DF, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 25 has been adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 24 by Mette Bock (LA), Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF), Pelle Dragsted (EL) and Josephine Fock (ALT) lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301144731	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301144742	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour (S, DF, V, EL, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 8 (LA), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301144809	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. There was a little beginner's error. I should also like, before I pass it on to the committee, to ask if there is a vote on Amendment No. 1-4, acceded to by the Committee. That is not the case, then it has been adopted, and so the proposal goes on to the third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301144852	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301144905	Amendment No 5 is to be voted on. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 18 (EL, ALT and SF), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. That is why Amendment No 1 is tabled. 2 and No 3 and joined by the same minority, lapsed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301145030	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301145115	I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Rasmus Prehn is asking for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301145147	On the socialist side, we have read with great interest the government's proposal for a law amending the law on the carriage of goods by road. There is no doubt that for some time now there has been a need to tighten up this area. There has been a need to ensure that the legal situation we knew before we got the Supreme Court ruling on 4 February 2015 was brought back to the point of departure that was before. It has been important on the part of the Social Democrats that we could ensure a situation where there was a national representative agreement that could ensure that those who work as drivers can have proper pay and working conditions. While we were in government while we were in the transport minister's office, we made a proposal to ensure that that legal situation was brought back on track. We didn't have time to finish that. Then the parliamentary elections came on June 18th. When we returned to the new session this autumn, we asked the government on a number of occasions whether it was not time to retable the bill under the Social Democratic Government, and we were given many answers: now we had to wait for the legislative catalogue to come, and more. Finally, we thought that it would not keep going. So we chose from the Social Democratic side, along with the rest of the opposition, to retable the bill that had been before the elections in this assembly. We had a good debate about this up to Christmas on 17 December 2015, where we proposed that this proposal be implemented and legal status restored in this area. There was a very good debate on this in this Chamber. We also had statements from the Danish People's Party that they agreed with the intentions. Yes, even the Left said that it was also widely agreed with the intentions, but they chose not to support our legislative proposal. Now this proposal, L 118, which is supposed to be the same and which has the same intentions, has been made in the meantime. However, I would like to say that when you read through the proposal, it becomes clear that this is, first and foremost, a defensive agenda. It is a question of making a proposal similar to the original one, in which it is written that the draft law has the same intentions, but it will not have the same effect. It becomes clear when you go in and look at the different hearing answers that have been given. A great many consultation responses have been given, and it is surprising to read that organisations which traditionally support the government are critical of this proposal. There is a consultation answer from the Danish Employers' Association. There's a hearing from DTL. There is a hearing answer from Danish Industry. They are therefore critical and they say that we can still have this situation where we are at risk of a so-called kitchen table agreement, even if this bill is adopted. We can therefore have a situation in which an agreement can be drawn up which only contains a purely commission salary, with what follows from uncertainty about driving on the roads and other things. That is why we have serious doubts about this proposal. I know that, when we dealt with L 72, we on the Socialist side said that we were open to listening to alternatives and amendments and that we were thus open to legal under-car treatment in the Ministry's view. However, there is some indication that instead the Minister has driven it into the worst pearl mechanic, where something has been smacked through which is not at all adequate in relation to what was intended, and we on the Socialist side are sorry about that. So we can say so much that the intention in the bill is that we fully agree with the socialist side, but the concrete legal text becomes sceptical when even the Danish Employers' Association, Danish Industry and DTL criticise it. That is why we would call for a formula to be found in the further work of the committee, in which the interest groups also feel covered. There we very much hope that the Danish People's Party, which has made such a mark on this matter, will help us find a formula in which these organisations of interest can see themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301145700	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301145718	Much has been said by Mr. Rasmus Prehn, and it is true that Dansk Folkeparti previously had some reservations about L 72 and now I do not remember what it was called. Our problem with that was precisely that there is, like, a monopoly in relation to which union one should be in. We are therefore in favour of the freedom to choose a trade union, the freedom to choose which employers' organisation you might draw an agreement with. Then a great deal has been said by some organisations in particular that this bill would open up a barn gate in relation to social dumping. Well, my God, the existing so-called established unions have not raised a finger in relation to Eastern European drivers here in Denmark, so I find it difficult to see a consensus in it. Nobody wants social dumping, nor does the Danish People's Party want a monopoly. After all, I'm a little fond of sir. Rasmus Prehn's entry into the discussion of this bill is that there is some willingness to find solutions, some clarification in what makes everyone able to live with it, and we would very much like to try to work together on them in committee. Because it may well be that it needs to be clarified who it is, whether you have to have a certain size, whether you have to have an x number of thousands of members or something like that in order to be described as a national union. We would very much like to take part in this, but we do not want to give all the power to certain trade unions or certain organisations. That is what we have had against the proposal from day one, and that is why we are in favour of looking at these amendments, but I fully agree with Mr Beazley. Rasmus Prehn in that there should be no social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301145923	There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301145929	On the socialist side, we would very much like to acknowledge to the Danish People's Party that, in relation to the committee work, we are willing to sit down and find a wording that is more comprehensive. If we do not make this change, which responds to what is proposed in the hearings by the Danish Employers' Association, Dansk Industri and DTL, will the Danish People's Party be able to support this proposal, that is to say, vote in favour of the proposal as it stands, without the amendment, without the clarification they are proposing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301150001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301150002	Now I had just understood that the Social Democracy and the Danish People's Party and other good parties in the committee work should try to find a formulation. I did not have the impression that we had to support the wordings of the Danish Employers' Association or the DTL, because they are not in the Folketing. So I would very much like to take a look at it, but I will not promise here in advance that we will take one or another wording. I would like to see that, and I think we owe it to the industry too, that we try to do something that embraces very broadly, so that we avoid this trench war, which we see in among other things. The transport industry. So we want to be part of that, but I just do not want to stand by and guarantee that it will be the solution of one of the parties that will be the right one.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301150044	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301150046	As a Social Democrat rapporteur, I agree that we should not be locked in right now. We must sit down and have a formulation that we can all see ourselves in. However, does it not make a great impression on the Danish People's Party's Transport Rapporteur that such strong interest groups say that if we do not clarify, we run the risk that there may still be kitchen table agreements that will be in force and that will in practice mean that we will have social dumping through the back door?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301150117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301150120	Hearing answers always make an impression, because that's where we might get a little bit smarter. I have also indicated that it may well be that we have to look at the definition of it so that we avoid these kitchen tables. Does it make an impression? Well, I understand you're fighting for a monopoly you've been sitting on for years, that's perfectly understandable.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301150141	The next question is Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301150146	Sir. In all the debates on these proposals, i.e. L 192 from last year, L 72 from autumn and now the new L 118, Kim Christiansen has been very concerned about the fact that there must be no monopoly in this area. I would venture to claim that Mr. Kim Christiansen is not sufficiently familiar with what actually exists in agreements in this whole area of transport. There are in fact a host of agreements which have been concluded on the employers' side with not least the Danish Employers' Association, including ATL, Dansk Industri, Dansk Erhverv, DTL, in the taxi sector ATAX, TA and in the bus sector different agreements, precisely because the Danish model adapts agreements to an industry and the part of an industry that needs it. Why is it that sir... Kim Christiansen, then, insists that there is a monopoly situation in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301150253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301150255	Well, that is because the draft laws mentioned refer directly to the most representative organizations in Denmark, and we must therefore say that is the Danish Employers' Association, LO and 3F. These are the organisations that are most representative, and so only one can be. There's only one person who can stand at the top of the conqueror's palace. That is why we just want to remove what is referred to as the most representative and then the government has found a different wording in this bill, with which we are very much in agreement. And if there is no clarification, then we shall avoid those things in relation to social dumping, such as, for example, social dumping. Mr. Rasmus Prehn has mentioned, and if it is ensured that small organisations with five members cannot just sit and make some agreements, then we are very positive about putting those clarifications into the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301150347	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301150349	It just doesn't work out. There's no one standing at the top of the victorious chameleon. There are a whole range of organizations and I mentioned them before, not least on the employer side, and on the employee side there are 3F. There are also Krifa, if that is what the Danish People's Party wants to ensure. In fact, they are also on that conquering stool on an equal footing with all the others. When it is believed that the wording of representative parties gives rise to this, we must surely hear what it is for some wordings that are needed, so that the Danish People's Party does not think that it will be one that is at the top of the victorious palace. Other wordings have been proposed, such as benchmarking parties, and I know what. Now it must soon be the Danish People's Party that comes out of the bush.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301150433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301150437	Well, we can do that very easily, because we are actually very pleased with the wording of the draft law that we are discussing here today. So I guess that's the answer to Mr. Henning Hyllested's question. It is not because I am not aware that there are very many organisations and very many agreements, but these are different areas, Mr President. Henning Hyllested stands and mentions. It's transport, it's the taxi area, and so on. etc. Yeah, I'm aware there are all these deals. But we're ready to look at this if there's any trouble in it. Conversely, Mr. Henning Hylllested also said that this one with the representative in any case is not that you point to any particular one. Well, I guess there's no problem with that text going out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301150520	The last person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301150524	The first thing I think about is that it must be cold to stand on the platform when you get so caught with your pants down. I think it is amazing that we are experiencing Mr. Kim Christiansen turned the argument completely on his head in some form of outrage that the trade union movement is not doing enough against social dumping. Then it's like you can almost be completely indifferent and then open a barn door with this bill. This type of argument is not connected at all. How is it possible, in some assumed indignation that the trade union movement is not doing enough, to do what an employers' organization says is an open door to legislative, judicial wage dumping? It is not 3F that I am quoting here; it is an employer's organization.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301150604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301150606	No, it is DTL, and it is perfectly legitimate for them to have that position on it. It's possible I've been taken with my pants down, but then I'm wearing a tie in return if we're gonna have to talk dress in here. I think I have answered very, very clearly that we just want this to be a market where there is equal access for everyone. But at the same time, if we are to have some clarification in order to do Mr. Karsten Hønge and others more secure in relation to social dumping, so we would be happy to look at it in committee. But if this is to be social dumping, I'm gonna have to ask Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge to give me a definition of social dumping at some point. Is it social dumping when a cashier in Netto works at DKK 107, which is the minimum wage in the HK area? Is that social dumping? We don't normally think of it as that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301150650	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301150654	What the Danish People's Party has to do is to rip up the shirt in some contexts and beat its chests and pretend to be talking about the workers' case against social dumping, and then you stand in this Chamber and do not see the problem of opening the floodgates to legal, legal stamping of wage dumping. And it is not exactly 3F that I am quoting, but an employer's organisation. 'Cause the point is, I'd like to say to Mr. Knox. Kim Christiansen, that you leave the possibility to all sorts of small associations of wage earners, which you give a form of status of contract party, what they don't have, if they're not what you can call most representative. There is, moreover, a choice between unions which are members of the LO and unions which are not members of the LO and a number of employers' organizations. What else would you take?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301150738	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301150740	Now the wording of the draft law is that it should apply to the whole country, and it will be a little difficult if you have it, as Mr. Karsten Hønge sees as a ghost here, namely some very small, such self-appointed organizations. And because it is written by an employer's organization, it is not necessarily the eternal truth. But we would very much like to take part in the work of the committee in looking at whether it is possible to clarify what it should be for some organisations, and I think that SF should also help with that. Where will you lay the bar, and what wording will you use to define trade unions and employers' organisations, respectively, which may be relevant in this matter? We are very happy to discuss this during the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301150819	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301150829	Thank you, sir. President. With the bill here we follow up on the so-called NORTRA judgment of February 2015, when the Supreme Court interpreted the previous legislation on agreements for drivers. The judgment has led to the need to clarify matters in order to ensure sound and clear conditions of competition. There are many similarities between the draft law we are discussing today, L 118, and then the draft law that the opposition has put forward in the past, L 72, which we have been debating in this Chamber a short time ago. However, there is one crucial difference, namely that the government's bill does not lead to a de facto monopoly status for trade unions such as 3F. We in the Left do not want to narrow down which organizations on the labour side and the employers side can be regarded as representative. In concrete terms, the Government proposes that the holders of a licence to carry out goods, bus, taxi services, limousine services, medical transport or public services should follow the provisions on the pay and working conditions of drivers contained in the collective agreements concluded by the social partners in Denmark and applicable throughout the Danish territory. Furthermore, the bill here proposes that we strengthen the supervision of compliance with pay and working conditions for drivers covered by the taxi law, that is. taxi services, limousine services, medical transportation and public services. This is done by extending the activities of the Contracting Board to include driving under the Taxi Act. In the previous debate, we in the Left have referred to the special circumstances of limo driving, including the fact that this part of the profession is relatively seasonal, with the consequent need for flexibility in employment, remuneration, etc. I am pleased that this draft law does not prevent limousine companies from making flexible agreements, which include: takes into account commission remuneration. The draft law does not in any way regulate the content of agreements in this area. We in the Left are confidently leaving it to the social partners. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301151102	We have brief comments to make. First, it's sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301151106	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left for outlining all these intentions. That sounds really good. And, of course, we Social Democrats are very much in agreement with these intentions. But is the rapporteur of the Left not concerned when so many of the most important and leading interest groups question whether the draft law put forward by the government will live up to the objective, that is to say that they are so afraid that we risk, on occasion, finding agreements, kitchen table agreements, so that can be sneaked under the radar and help undermine Danish pay and working conditions and thus mean social dumping? Doesn't it make an impression when the Danish Employers' Association, Danish Industry, DTL and others write so clearly that the wording of the bill doesn't really fit the intentions of the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301151201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301151203	I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Rasmus Prehn for praise. The bill not only sounds good, it is and of course always makes the impression what is written in the consultation answers. This is, in fact, one of the key elements of the legislative process... so what the parties around society are reporting back on legislative proposals. But if Mr. Rasmus Prehn goes in and reads the consultation note, he will see that the Minister gives some very good answers, replies to the consultation answers that have come from the number of organisations that Mr. Prehn's registering. And, of course, what is at the heart is that with the bill it must be nationwide collective agreements made in Denmark. By this we mean that we have ensured that some of what some call kitchen table agreements, i.e. small, local agreements, can arise. We're taking that into account with this, and we've found the right balance with the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301151259	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301151301	Well, sometimes you have to be worried when something sounds too good to be true, because sometimes there's something about it that's too good to be true. This is also what the Danish Employers' Association and Danish Industry point out, namely that you cannot count on these very good intentions if you look at the concrete wording. So, in spite of the Minister's fine statements and good answers, as the rapporteur says, it is not enough for the Danish Employers' Association and the Danish Industry and DTL to be satisfied, will the Left's rapporteur be open to making a change along with the Danish People's Party, so we are absolutely keen that we secure what needs to be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301151343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301151345	But I have taken note of the concern of the Danish People's Party, and of course we are ready to look at things in committee. That is why we deal with the legislative proposals thoroughly in the committees afterwards. But, as I said, we are very confident about this wording, which means that no one will have a monopoly on it here, but yet we ensure that it is national collective agreements that are involved and that it is collective agreements that are based in Denmark. We're very comfortable with that. But we are ready to look at things in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301151417	The next one is sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301151420	I am in favour of a monopoly-like position focusing primarily on 3F and not so much on employers' organisations. That is why it may also be surprising, and it is also in relation to something in the answer that Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen gave to Mr. Rasmus Prehn said that you are at odds with or in conflict with employers' organizations. I quote right here from the Danish Employers' Association's hearing answer, and it is, as you know, supported by both Danish Industry, ATL and Danish Businesses: On the other hand, the draft law does not establish a sufficiently secure and clear basis for restoring the practice so far in relation to paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 above. The wording of the proposal on the subject, and that was it, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen himself was involved in collective agreements concluded by the social partners in Denmark and applicable throughout the Danish territory, in the context of the comments to the bill is not sufficiently clear. So that goes a long way to contradicting Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen's perception that this is clear and finds a fine balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301151524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301151527	Yes, but when you look at the consultation note, where there is a reply to the consultation answers, you can see that there are among other things. states: The bill provides that collective agreements are to be understood as collective agreements concluded by the social partners in Denmark and applicable throughout the Danish territory. The draft law therefore requires that there should be a national agreement concluded by the Danish social partners. I think that should satisfy the Enhedslisten. I mean, this is a good relationship. And so we have no desire to give a de facto monopoly to certain organisations, because that is what you do if you follow the text of the law in L 72. It says: the most representative trade unions. And that will help to create a de facto monopoly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301151615	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301151617	What agreement cannot claim to be national? It is, in fact, simply to enter that paragraph into the agreement which says that this agreement is applicable to the whole Danish territory. So that's not a problem. And it's festive, if I may say so, at Dansk Arbejdsforening, Dansk Industri, Dansk Erhverv og ATL. Don't worry about it either, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, that the Danish Employers' Association writes directly in their hearing that the bill breaks with the Danish model, referring to Section 12 of the Taxi Act, where the authorisation clause now included provides for the possibility of determining which collective agreements are considered to be concluded by the social partners in Denmark and which apply to the entire Danish territory?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301151708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301151711	No, it's not a concern we share. As I said, we believe that the draft law here has found a very good balance. And I can hear that there is a desire for us to take a closer look at this in the course of the committee procedure, among other things. on the basis of a wish from the Danish People's Party, and of course we are ready to look into that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301151729	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301151734	How can Mr. In the same speech, Kristian Pihl Lorentzen has the language to say that he is against monopoly formation and then mention for example: 3F... 3F... 3F... 3F... 3F... 3F... 3F... 3F... 3F... 3F... 3F... 3F... 3F... 3F.. 3F.. 3F... 3F... 3F... 3F... 3F... 3F... 3F... Already saying "e.g. 3F, it has been said that there are several organisations. That's what it is. There are both several professional organisations and there are several employers' organisations. So how can we talk with any substance about the existence of a monopoly when the rapporteur himself says in almost the same sentence, for example, that there is a monopoly?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301151833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301151835	Well, that's what we had up earlier. We had a good and thorough debate on L 72 not so long ago, and after that debate it was clear that the very wording most representative means that someone is most representative, and then it is that one gets into a monopoly-like status. We have been told that, and that is not the policy of the Left. That is why we are much more confident about the wording here in the draft law, in which we ensure that conditions are orderly and that national collective agreements are what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301151901	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301151903	We cannot reasonably talk about a monopoly when there are more organizations present today, both on the employees' side and on the employers' side. It just doesn't make any sense. Perhaps it doesn't make any sense to ask a question either, but I'm still trying. It is: What does it take to be national? How many Members should there be, would the rapporteur think? Is it the case that if you have a single jyde and a single Copenhagener in a contract, it is nationwide? This is a roller coaster in the direction of discount agreements, and maybe that's what interest in it is. It can be said here that serious employers' organisations such as DTL are just warning strongly against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301151937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301151938	No, there's no desire for roller coasters in this case. But what is the point is that L 72 was, in fact, a tightening of the current conditions. So it doesn't really make any sense when Mr. Karsten Hønge relates it to the current conditions. For L 72, de facto was a tightening because the wording was just used the most representative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301151958	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301152005	The comments on the bill could give the impression that this was an attempt to rectify the legal situation following the totally disastrous Supreme Court ruling of February 2015, but it is not. That's not the intention of the bill. This is very clear from the consultation notes on page 5 and page 8, where it is quite clear that the state of law before the Supreme Court ruling is not clear in the consultation note. On the contrary, in our opinion, the bill clearly cements the state of law and in our opinion that means that any agreement is valid, including what is called driver agreements • I call them toilet agreements, kitchen tables, and what else they are called. Anyone can look up as a social partner. Of course. You can only agree with your drivers that we are now the social partners, and that is what you are to some extent. And any agreement can claim to be national, it is simply to write it into the agreement in question that one might make. So it has also come to the point where a state authority has to approve agreements as to whether they form the basis for granting a permit. That is also why I am referring to the Danish Employers' Association's hearing answer, which says that it really breaks basically with the Danish model. It is no wonder that the bill is criticized by all the social partners, by the whole strip of employers' organisations and trade unions, too, and it is strange that the government, at a time of tripartite negotiations, chooses to undermine the organised labour market. It is no coincidence that the contract provision is included in the freight, bus and taxi laws. Indeed, drivers' pay and working conditions should not be competitive parameters. There has been agreement since 1973 that this should be the case. This is, of course, primarily for road safety reasons. We should not have tired and underpaid drivers who feel pressured to drive in violation of the driving-rest-time regulations and commit other illegal acts, drive with overload, drive in violation of the rules on the transport of animals, violate speed limits, and what do I know? I would like to point out that heavy lorries, buses and taxis that drive too fast in the hands of tired drivers are clean killing machines. And you can also see from the consultation answers that only ITD and Danish Freight Forwarders are enthusiastic about this bill. I would remind you that ITD is the organization whose membership, if any, is using foreign Eastern European labour and flagging out and uses mailbox companies south of the border on a large scale. And even though ITD is committed to proper pay and working conditions for drivers on the Danish labour market and to joining the Danish model, it is they who are doing their utmost to undermine it by using many foreign drivers in flagged-out companies. It is also those who have said at some point that there is no future for the Danish driver's profession there is for the Danish transport industry, that is for member companies, but there is no future for Danish drivers. They are also the ones who have said at one point that the conditions for foreign drivers, as we see them around the resting places, where they sit and hut through with small primuses and a bottle of vodka, are very similar to those previously enjoyed by Danish export drivers. It was such a romantic, nostalgic approach to what ITD built. The bill also looks mostly like a presentation from ITD, which has formed an employer's organisation and now wants to be a contracting entity. Of course, one might wonder why they do not simply sign up to an existing agreement and form part of the negotiating community, but one can only speculate about that. I have no doubt for a moment that ITD would, of course, like to go through with less agreements than those we have today for drivers in their member companies. It has been a long-nurtured wish of ITD. I have to say that it has thus been a very good investment for ITD to contribute to the transport minister and rapporteur from the Left election campaigns. I would almost say that they are now being paid back richly. The fact that the Danish People's Party is now on the same page as ITD and the government in the question is among the more remarkable. I sincerely hope that the Danish People's Party will take note of this during the committee procedure, which I understand to Mr. Kim Christiansen, as he has proposed, would otherwise be the height of hypocrisy, while at the same time trying to profil itself as those who are fighting against social dumping on the road.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301152518	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301152524	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Henning Hyllested for a fiery and dynamic rapporteur speech. You can actually get caught up in it until you start listening to what Mr. Henning Hyllested actually says. Sir. Henning Hyllested came to link agreements with the driving-rest-time regulations and the picture that there are tired drivers driving around on the roads because they are under pressure from an agreement. That's why I'd like to ask Mr. Henning Hyllested: How to regulate the driving-rest-time regulations, that is, to protect against tired drivers? Is it in agreements or by common EU rules, tachographs etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301152601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301152603	It is by common EU rules, etc. But of course there is a connection, because it is clear that if you have poor agreements, if you have low wages, there is, of course, constant pressure on the driver to make some earnings • he has, after all, probably in most cases a family to be provided for. And, of course, drivers who are under pressure of pay and working conditions, it is possible to press ahead with illegal practices, both in relation to the legislation, such as the rest-time rules and so on, but also in other areas, which have also been legislated on, I mentioned some of them in my rapporteur's speech. So there is a direct link between bad agreements and violations of traffic law and driving-rest-time regulations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301152647	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301152651	Well, all due respect, sir. Henning Hyllested is fighting 3F's case in this reading of the bill, but Mr. Henning Hyllested is not, it is a little bit sought, perhaps even somewhat into the manipulative, to paint a picture that it is the agreements that determine whether there are rest-time rules, etc., when it is regulated in a completely different set of rules that are very precise and apply to the whole of Europe? Is it not a little bit sought and manipulative in such a debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301152720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301152721	No, certainly not, because, as I said before, there is a direct connection. Poorly paid drivers are, of course, prepared to do something more to increase their earnings, run a little longer than they really should, and if there is a trucker whipping them over the neck, that is the way it is, around the companies. A driver who, in this way, is under pressure of poor wages and working conditions in general and is alone in relation to his employer's counterpart is, of course, one, if I may say so, easy victim, to press for unlawful acts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301152758	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301152801	We in the Socialist Group would like to acknowledge this vivid and committed speech by the rapporteur. It's good to feel the blood rolling at Enhedslisten. We also share the concern expressed by the Social Democrats about this proposal. It must appear to be something, and then it is not quite yet what the consultation answers clearly show. But I need to hear about something, because we also have to try to make something constructive out of it. If we succeed in bringing the Danish People's Party to an amendment that hits this in a more precise way, will Enhedslisten be involved in that work so that we can move in the right direction on this? The aim must of course be that we can get rid of the kitchen-table agreements with undermining the Danish pay and working conditions. Will the Enhedslisten join with us Social Democrats and possibly the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301152844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301152847	Of course we will. It is crucial for the Enhedslisten that we get, if I may say so, restored the state of law after the disastrous Supreme Court ruling that fell in February 2015 and we will of course do everything we can to look at all sorts of strange wordings of the requirements of the collective agreement in the law, but it must be real. What has been proposed here, where the social partners are said, is not real, because it is anyone who wants to say: I am a social partner and, by the way, I have a national agreement, because that is what my agreement says. It is not a real protection against it. It is the social partners who conclude the agreements and ensure that collective agreements are complied with and that drivers are guaranteed proper pay and working conditions and cannot be forced into unlawful practices of different kinds.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301152946	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301152948	That's what I like so much about Enhedslisten's mr. Henning Hyllested, namely the strong commitment and yet also the willingness to make a piece of political craftsmanship and a compromise, and I hope so. I need to hear the Enhedslisten's rapporteur on something. If we were now to be completely honest with each other, would it not have been the most obvious thing that the Danish People's Party simply voted in favour of the bill we tabled? That's the whole thing. Does Enhedslisten not wonder that the Danish People's Party is just voting for this, because it is a bit difficult to deal with such a proposal that needs to be changed again and all the things in the world? Why not just vote in favour of the proposal we have put forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301153016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301153025	I am also surprised that when we took the bill from the spring of the old government, for which we ourselves supported it, L 192, and continued as L 72, not just who took it. Then we'd be out of all trouble. That is also why it is important for me to emphasise that I also did so in my rapporteur's speech that it is the top of hypocrisy if the Danish People's Party does not bite on here to some extent. That is the height of hypocrisy! You should not beat yourself up and say that you are against social dumping on the road and then vote for this bill without any changes to the wording.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301153100	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301153103	I wondered whether I should take the floor, because the two gentlemen who actually explain very well what the position of the Danish People's Party is, and Mr. Henning Hyllested also what we should think and have not done. But I am doing it now anyway, and it may be just as much to correct some factual things in it. Sir. Henning Hyllested says that now he hopes that Dansk Folkeparti also belongs to this ITD wing. We don't belong to any wing in this. In fact, I think that we have also been very pragmatic in our approach to the two previous proposals and have tried to see if we could find something that brings the whole industry together. I just need to know from Henning Hyllested: is what Henning Hyllested is very opposed to, in other words, to Eastern European labour and wage dumping, after all, not a result of the carbotage rules and the combi directive, which are at least outside this framework? Indeed, it is EU legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301153153	I would just like to say to the rapporteur that he should remember to say Mr, so I now give Mr Beyer de Ryke the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301153159	Well, formally speaking, that is quite right, I would say to Mr. Kim Christiansen, but lure me if they have not, now that they have become an employer's organization and that is why I pull out ITD has some intentions to pull in some way the company or their member companies that are currently using foreign Eastern European labour via temporary employment schemes, and what do I know I have no imagination to imagine it. Let me know if they are not prepared to make some kind of agreement where this can also be drawn in.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301153235	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301153241	I don't know, sir. I don't know ITD's or anyone else's intentions about the business they run and their doings and barn. Anyway, I just know that the union, like Mr. Knox... Henning Hyllested is so fond of 3F and then we don't have to talk election contributions. Henning Hyllested himself said that it has not done very much to stop social dumping, i.e. Romanian and Bulgarian drivers who are holding around in the rest places for months. It's just another discussion, and it has nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301153318	President. - I call
ParlaMint-DK_20160301153321	That is why I think that 3F has done what they could on the labour market side, and they are the only ones who have done so. Then there is a whole range of employers' organisations that have also tried. Nor can I know what ITD has in mind, but they belong to the more extremist part of the employer side. I will almost compare them, as I did in a press release, with Sustainable Agriculture, which was written off after them, and I am a little afraid that this bill is very much a gift to ITD and their intentions if they have any such.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301153359	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301153408	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we pay tribute to the principle that the state does not interfere as far as possible in the regulation of pay and working conditions. I don't think it's gonna come as a surprise. The principle of freedom of agreement is also central to us, and so we are at the heart of this draft law, namely the fact that an explicit legal basis must be provided to override this principle of freedom of agreement. That is how we read the proposal, but since we do not believe that the public should discriminate against people on the basis of how they organise, I have to say that we are having a bit of difficulty with this draft law, even though it is of course possible to argue that to some extent the legal validity of the previous state of law before the Supreme Court ruling can be guaranteed and that there is no interference in the specific content of the agreements. However, the fact that we need to be able to sort people out directly in the legislation by what kind of agreement they have when granting authorisations or driving licences does not seem to us to be very liberal and therefore not desirable. And, as the freight forwarders may say, today we are in a situation of increasing transport demand, and here we need contractual flexibility and not, in other words, the opposite. I think it is important for employers to have more agreements to choose from so that they can choose the one that suits the company, even if it is not necessarily national. But it may depend on a question of definition; I do not know that. For these reasons, we are currently sceptical about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301153555	Thank you to the rapporteur. We have just one brief remark from Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301153601	That was just the last of the remarks, sir. Villum Christensen came along, who could suddenly question whether the Liberal Alliance really supports the idea of having collective agreements. It will of course be a question of definition, but I do believe that when it comes to a single carrier with three or ten drivers who enter into an agreement, it can hardly be called a collective agreement, or how does the Liberal Alliance see it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301153635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301153637	It is true that we do not think it is incredibly important that you have x number of members and that you operate in those and those regions. We can hear in this debate that it is incredibly difficult to draw a line on when it is one or the other. I think so, sir. Henning Hyllested himself mentioned earlier in the debate. Because if you can just write national, are you national? And that is what we can almost continue to do with regard to what requirements and what principles we must uphold. That is why we think it should be free.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301153707	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301153708	Yeah, but the thing is, in this industry, a whole range of agreements has been developed, partly within the individual industry, for example. the taxi industry, partly in the freight sector, i.e. in the area of truck transport. And it is precisely the responsibility of the employers' parties on the part of the sector that national agreements are concluded, but which of course are adapted to the different parts of the transport industry, because of course there are different needs. DTL's agreement is not the same as for example. DI's ATL agreement, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301153751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301153753	No, and here we are at the core. Freedom of agreement is important to us. We should not approach what looks like monopolies in this area. After all, the debate has shown that not many people like it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301153806	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Nikolaj Amstrup, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301153814	Thank you very much. The aim of the draft law here is, according to the comments, to ensure reasonable conditions of competition in the transport sector, including authorisation for driving, as it was previously an administrative practice to require the agreement of collective agreements to collective agreements, which are actually collective and not just so-called kitchen table agreements or toilet agreements, depending on the choice of words you want. We have already started discussing in this Chamber whether the proposal is either too far-reaching or not far-reaching enough, and we have tried, in the eyes of some and in the eyes of others, not to strike a balance between positions, so that we can find a solution and some wordings in the proposal on which we can broadly agree. But it has not quite succeeded. Both for the sake of drivers and for road safety as a whole, it is important to restore the legal status administered by the Danish Transport and Construction Authority before the Supreme Court ruling. That is why it is also important that we do not now adopt a legislative proposal which does not establish it in sufficient detail, and I expect that in the work of the committee we will take the necessary steps to find the exact wording needed to achieve it. It also seems, as I hear from the other rapporteurs, that we need to find some other wordings in order to find a broad consensus on the proposal. That is why I can tell you that the alternative is really, really positive about the intention of the proposal and very much hope that during the committee work we can find common ground and, above all, a wording in which a wider part of the Folketing can see itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301153956	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301153959	Yeah, that was just sir. Nikolaj Amstrup's remark that one agrees with the intention. But now that we can read in the hearing note I mentioned it in my rapporteur's speech that it is not the intention of the bill to restore the legal status from before the Supreme Court ruling, what is done about the bill in question?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301154021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301154023	I fell like sir. Henning Hyllested is right also about the wording of the consultation note and believes that this is one of the things we must go to the minister on the subject of the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301154040	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301154042	In the old text, before the Supreme Court's ruling, but that is to say, the one which the Supreme Court so overruled was used by the wording of the agreements in question. It's not gonna work. Then it is proposed in the draft law, L 72, we tabled ourselves, that we apply the concept of representative social partners, and DTL proposes tone-announcement. I would like to hear the comments of the alternative on those proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301154112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301154114	Yes, there are many words in play in connection with these collective agreements... I don't have an answer to that. What I am calling for is for us to try together to find an answer, since I can see already now that there seems to be no support for the proposal as it stands. That is why it is important that we start now by trying to find a common ground.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301154145	Thank you to the rapporteur. Excuse me, sir. Karsten Hønge has come on right here in the end. Here you go, sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301154151	First, I would like to acknowledge the alternative's need and desire to create a good atmosphere. Actually, I really like it when other people want us to feel good about each other. But it's not gonna last here. The alternative will have to take a position on specific policy: how do we get the conditions for drivers here in Denmark? Are we doing this by undermining the collective agreement system by adding it to all sorts of random agreements, or do we think that the alternative is to stick to wordings that ensure that there are parties to agreements that actually have legitimacy, in that they represent a group of employers and employees? So it's not enough with feel good.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301154238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301154243	No, it's not enough with feel good. It's good to have it, but it's definitely not enough. On the other hand, this is also a first reading in which we do not have to take a position and where, in my view, it does not promote the direction in which a proposal is adopted, which also falls within the scope of Mr Vandemeulebroucke's report. Karsten Hønge's taste is that we are already digging ditches when we are going through a committee procedure where we have to approach each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301154308	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301154310	But it's not about digging ditches. Nor is it a question of thinking that political results can be achieved through pussian talk. After all, this is a matter of taking into account interests, and the alternative simply has to come up with a concrete position: will it help to strengthen the regulated, organised, civilised labour market by using agreements concluded between representative or benchmarking legitimate partners in the labour market? Or are we going to open up all kinds of discount agreements here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301154340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301154341	No, of course we do not want discount agreements to be opened up, toilet agreements etc. As we could hear, there are also rapporteurs in the Chamber who think that the proposal is really too far-reaching. That is why I believe that we must now move towards that position, and we would like to do so, and we will also find a very firm position on it here during the committee's reading. But as things stand now, I think it is important that we try to approach something that several of us can see us in.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301154413	Then there were no further brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301154423	As many of my colleagues have mentioned, a Supreme Court ruling has meant that the legal position in the transport sector has been challenged. Until the Supreme Court ruling it has been the case that when you drive a taxi, bus or cargo truck, most people will probably call it in plain language "at foreign expense," as it is said, you have had to have a permit and there you have had to prove that you have respected the representative collective agreements that are in the country. It's been challenged. That is to say, we are in a situation now, where it is the Wild West, where we can make the agreements we want and, contrary to what has been in force so far. The government of which the Radical Left was a part put forward a bill to restore the legal position we know. Unfortunately, we did not manage to get the third reading and thus put it into practice before the elections were held, when unfortunately we lost the majority. Then the same parties who supported that bill have tried to put it back in the new Parliament, and there did not really appear to be a majority in favour of it because the majority in power now disagreed. You have then put forward this proposal, where the difference is that there are no longer representative contracts, but only stand as collective agreements. Our view is that this bill is, after all, better than if nothing is passed. However, like the Socialists, the Enhedslisten and others, we would, of course, prefer that the proposal that came about was what we have now had in two rounds without having or being able to reach a majority in order to get it through. That is why we would like it to continue to come out of the committee's work which is now under way. But we would like to support the bill that is here if that is not possible. Because we are of the opinion that, after all, it is better than nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301154619	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move forward. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301154628	This bill, with a state guarantee, provides for social dumping. This bill will lead to cheaper agreements and therefore worse pay and working conditions for drivers. The right wing will push wages down, the right wing is working these weeks to knock the bottom out of a part of the transport industry. With this, chaos and free liberalism will be introduced instead of the current orderly conditions in the goods traffic law. Wages will be knocked down, the cabs will be opened up to even more low-paid Eastern workers, and road safety will be harmed. SF does not believe that we should have sleep-drinking drivers behind the wheel, and the companies should not speculate about poor working conditions for the employees in the competition to get the orders home. In the interests of road safety and fair competition, we have since 1973 regulated the conditions of drivers driving by goods, bus or taxi. With this bill, the government, with the support of the rest of the right wing, is going to weaken the terms. We can hear the Danish People's Party try to tread water and try one day to say one thing, but in practice do something quite different the next day. Many times we see representatives of the Danish People's Party rip up the shirt, beat their chests and proclaim their support for Danish jobs and against social dumping. With support for this bill, the Danish People's Party does the opposite. Until now, the Road Transport Act has meant that wages and working conditions must follow the agreements in the leading national agreements. If the bill is adopted, the individual carrier can in future enter into agreements with all sorts of smaller groups of employees. And if you make the effort to take a single driver from Jutland and a single driver from Copenhagen, then it also goes national. The result will certainly be agreements which can just as well be drawn into a vending machine in a discount shop. After all, it is not only the opposition and the trade union movement who are crying out loud about the destruction that this law will bring with it. Serious employers in e.g. The outcome has consequences as far as the eye can see. It will knock the bottom out of the market, and in particular self-propelled hauliers will be crushed in a downward spiral. SF believes that we must defend the organised and regulated labour market with the security of employees and with fair conditions of competition between serious companies. SF will not play gambling with Danish jobs, fixed working conditions or road safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301154919	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments and I see no representative of the Conservative People's Party. Then it's the Minister of Transport and Building.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301154929	First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to those parties who have been positive about the draft law today. In fact, only the Enhedslisten and the SF were completely dismissive. Yes, the Social Democratic Party was perhaps also, we have to verify that. But otherwise I would like to sign that others had this constructive will to try to find each other, which is so good for a people's government and which I think is far along the way also characteristic of transport. I'd like to sign for that. After all, we should remember that the background to the bill, as you know, is a verdict of the Supreme Court in February 2015 in a case brought against the Danish Transport and Construction Authority. The Supreme Court ruled that any arbitrary collective agreement for drivers meets the requirements of the three laws in the area of freight, bus and taxi. The draft law proposes that the holder of a licence for the carriage of goods, bus services, taxi services, limousine services, medical transport or public services should follow the provisions on the pay and working conditions of drivers, which are contained in collective agreements concluded by the social partners in Denmark and which apply throughout the Danish territory. It is therefore a requirement that the agreement be concluded by Danish social partners and that the agreement be nationwide. And for those bus, freight, taxi, limousine, medical or public service road hauliers who, upon the entry into force of the law, may follow agreements which do not meet these requirements, there will be a transitional provision, and the rules will only apply here when the agreement in question expires or can be terminated or when their authorisation expires. The reason for this is to avoid expropriative interventions. In addition, it is proposed to strengthen the monitoring of compliance with pay and working conditions for drivers covered by the taxi law, i.e.: taxi services, limousine services, medical transport and public service traffic, and this is done by extending the activities of the Contracting Board to include driving under the Taxi Code. The consequences of the bill will be a positive development of healthy conditions of competition and improved road safety. As you know, in spring 2015, the previous government put forward a draft law amending the three laws, but the proposal lapsed as a result of the discharge of the parliamentary elections. In November 2015, the opposition then retabled the bill, now as L 72. The opposition's draft law assumes that road hauliers can only follow one particular collective agreement if they have to meet the proposed requirements, i.e. one particular collective agreement. In my view, such a requirement is not acceptable. In Denmark we are starting from the point of view of the state not interfering as far as possible in the regulation of pay and working conditions, but leaving it to the social partners to determine it. One should therefore be wary of interfering in relationships based on vintage traditions such as the Danish model. I think there has been a good debate in this Chamber, but I would like to add a few comments anyway. I noted that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kim Christiansen, of course, said that for the Danish People's Party it was absolutely crucial that we were sure that we did what we could in relation to social dumping. Moreover, it is strange that the word'social dumping' should be used here. If you read the bill, you will see that it is a question of not having a monopoly; that there should be not only one agreement but more agreements. But I understand that point of view, and perhaps that is also what is always characteristic of the position of the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, namely that we should try to find each other. And I see it as constructive and quite sad when I hear some parties in here beating such a tough tone that we cannot find each other. I would like to make it clear, in view of the fact that the Danish People's Party has raised these points of view, that I would like to discuss in committee or over there with me whether we can try to find some wording that comforts the various. In fact, I also heard that the Alternative and Radicals said that there were some things there that they wanted to be sure that not all kinds of kitchen table deals were opened up, as I choose to call them, but that they were called national agreements. I'd like to help see if we can find each other in a description of it. It may be that we should try to see if we can, for example. must define the number of thousands of employees to represent such an organisation or whatever it may be. I do not feel that we should be looking for what is most appropriate. That was also said by Mr. Kim Christiansen. He said: Why do we now have to start talking away from each other? Why should we start to lay down definitions when it all comes down to meeting each other for a debate and trying to figure out what that should be like and what it should be called? Of course, I was also pleased that my own rapporteur, Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, with usual certainty, pulled us out of the delusion that Mr. Henning Hyllested was just getting us into that now rest periods were also suddenly beginning to be regulated in an agreement. It's a good thing we put it in place. I don't want to go in and discuss that anymore, because there's no reason for that. Now it is as brightly clear as it can, and then we can relate to what it is all about. Anyway, I'm looking forward to us trying to find a good solution together. I think it is a good proposal, but I can see that there may be some things in it that we can try to clarify so that everyone can see themselves in it. I would just like to say that I think we owe it not only to say about the Supreme Court judgment that it is a matter of passing by the Supreme Court judgment as soon as possible, but that it is also right to learn from a Supreme Court judgment and to see what the essence of it was, even though one does not agree that the legal situation should be as they describe it. At any rate, I think that is an indication that, after all, we should try to see if we could not remove the monopoly, so that there is not only one agreement, but perhaps more ■ perhaps also that the Contracting Board was broader. So I urge and hope that the rapporteurs, together with me, will try to pave the way for us to find each other and land something in a compromise, but where we can see all of us in it. I'd like to do my part.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301155636	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301155643	As far as I am aware, the Supreme Court ruling does not mention anything at all about the formation of monopolies in the labour market, but it opens up the possibility of any agreement being applicable, and I have understood it that way in the various readings we have had from L 192, L 72, our original B proposal, which was before L 192, etc., that the parties have had an intention to restore the legal situation from before the Supreme Court judgment, that is, the way in which the Traffic Authority was administered. But now that is no longer the intention. It is clear from the consultation note that I have mentioned it in my rapporteur's speech that it is not the intention to restore the rule of law. So you have to ask: does it mean, if you do not want to return to the state of law from before the Supreme Court, that you were really unhappy with the way it was before and as it has in principle been since 1973? And then you have to ask: What was wrong then? Was it the fact that flex driving could be paid on a commission basis or not paid on a commission basis, i.e. flex driving, which was OST-subsidised?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301155755	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301155758	But now we are talking about legal status, and I think it is possible to define it a great deal. What I am saying here, on the other hand, is what I think Mr. Henning Hyllested must take too good goods, at least from the government's side, namely that we want to see that when you make this law now, you ensure that there are more agreements. And then let us meet together to find out how to define it, because as it is in the proposal, Mr President. Henning Hyllested speaks so warmly in favour, there is one agreement, and I can only say that if there is only one agreement, everyone else must abide by this one agreement, because that is what applies. I heard that mr. Henning Hyllested stood before a rapporteur and listed a lot of agreements. Yes, but they must comply with the one agreement that is there. That is just why I say: why should we have that monopoly? Let's get together and try to figure out if we couldn't do something we could all see ourselves in.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301155856	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301155858	No, no, no, sir. Minister. The transport sector is characterised by a number of organizations, not least on the employer side, which have concluded agreements with 3F on the worker side, but not only on the regulation of the labour market in transport. There's not just one deal in this area. It is true that there is of course an attempt to have roughly equal pay and working conditions, precisely in order to prevent agreements from being cheaper than others, so that unfair competition between road hauliers is created in this area; that is the intention. But there are a great many agreements because of course, as responsible social partners, agreements are adapted to the parts of transport with which they are now compatible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301155952	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301155954	Yes, but I just want to say to Mr. Knox. Henning Hylllested, that I hope that Mr. Henning Hylllested will open his mind and then try to accommodate the • 'cause I'd like everyone to know that we're trying to find a scheme where there are several different agreements. And if so, sir. Henning Hyllested says it is, sir. Henning Hyllested believes that, and this is usually the case, we can easily imagine that there are also more representatives in the Contracting Board than there are today. So we could also expand the Contracting Board, and then I think we're starting to get everyone involved in it. So let's try to work together on that. And in fact, I have to say that we have a reason to say to Mr. Kim Christiansen, that it was he who started it up. And now let's all stay on that line, so we're trying to find each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301160040	As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301160055	The debate is open, and this is Mrs Karen J. Klint as rapporteur for the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301160114	Thank you. I'm standing in front of Mr. Knox. Orla Hav, who is prevented from attending here because of something in the Nordic Council, so I have the honour of holding our rapporteur's speech on home training. I am quite happy about that, because I am one of the MFs who, before my time as MF, have been following the home training work for many years, and I know a lot of children and young people and now also adults who have been successful in being part of the home training on the basis of the various conditions on which it has now been organised. And I have actually been allowed to mention that I am currently following two young people, William and Simone, whom I have also had in business practice in here at Christiansborg, and who both enjoy the intensive training they receive. Simone has even moved so much that she from being pretty much on it, if she was going out and exercising she has been on such Team Twin races • actually here a few weeks ago a race on her own legs of 5 km. So it's a sunshine story that wants something. But back to the point. We have reached a political agreement on the revision of the home training scheme, in which we have seen and clarified some of the premises that need to be in place so that home training becomes a good arrangement for the benefit of the child and the child's family. For all home training and all treatment must be for the child's best interests and the child's well-being. That is the prerequisite. In the review under discussion today, we clarify some things, and I would also like to emphasise here that there will be a new guide and probably also a new handbook which will make it more clear to the municipalities how to deal with the challenges they face. After all, it is very, very clear that the municipalities are tackling the challenge of the home training scheme extremely differently. Some municipalities almost deny that parents have a right to do so, and then there are a few municipalities that are praised by the parent group, including the City of Copenhagen. And when one of the country's largest municipalities, in fact the largest, gets praise for being able to implement some things, then one wonders a little and thinks that it is probably not the basic legislation that is wrong with that. Then it may be because of some other attitudes, or because you do not have enough knowledge to carry out the task and provide the training that needs to be done. And that is what we can do politically in this review and by providing a guide and a handbook so that more parents become aware of the things they are entitled to, but also that there is respect for the fact that there must be an individual assessment of the specific child. I know that it will not be seen in the minutes, but the parents have actually made such a nice map where they have colored it so you can see where there are challenges and where the challenges are uglier than elsewhere. And then there are a few green spots on the map, and that is where they meet understanding of the challenges they face. And this is a map that I would like to encourage KL to look at. For KL also has to be involved in the implementation of the audit we are preparing for here.KL is the closest dialogue partner with the municipalities so that the municipalities respect the legislation that comes from us. But it must also be the case that the municipalities retain the nuances and diversity that may exist in the organisation of social work. Personally, I think that until we get the guidance and the handbook, there are still some challenges. There is also a challenge in how to organize the lost earnings of parents who train with their children full-time, not least when the child reaches compulsory education. Some municipalities simply draw a full week of education from the time you have for home training, and I think that some municipalities should look at how fair it is. Because if the municipality itself were to teach the children in question, I doubt that all the children would have a full week of education. And if, as a municipality, you would not give the child a full week of education if it were to be taught at home, then it cannot necessarily be fair to deduct it from the lost earnings. So there are some areas of dialogue that we still need to keep an eye on and also take up with the parents and the children and young people who benefit from the scheme. The Socialists recommend supporting the bill, which is, of course, part of a political agreement. We are pleased that this is now being implemented in an area where parents get more care and care in the case, so that it doesn't take 6 years, from the first time to the final answer, and that you don't have to via the Ankestyrelsen too many times to win a case over the municipality. So it is also a call for the municipalities to be a little more accommodating to the parents, so that the parents who are entitled and able to carry out home training for the benefit of the child get started on proper conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301160636	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301160644	This bill is based on a joint agreement between all parties in the Folketing on home training. It is very good to have a broad majority here in the Danish Parliament, as it gives us security and security for us all here in the Danish Parliament to maintain the home training scheme. The aim of this bill is to make the rules clearer and easier to work with and to support decisions on home training based on an overall assessment of the best interests and well-being of the child or young person. The bill brings together all the provisions of the Service Act on home training in a new provision, Article 32a of the Service Act, and inserts the concept of home training in section 32 (a) of the Service Act. 1, making it clearer for both municipal councils and parents that section 32 of the Services Act also contains rules on home training. At the same time, it has been important to make it clear that the municipal council cannot automatically reduce the lost earnings by the number of hours spent on home teaching. Unfortunately, we have seen a number of examples of this. This means that you still have the opportunity to get full loss of earnings, but it must not be the same parent who both coach and teaches. The Danish People's Party is part of this agreement, as we think that the home training scheme is a good arrangement that we want to maintain. To the end, we have worked to make the home training scheme even better. I have visited the parents and children in the knowledge center Minimumps in Herlev and seen how parents and helpers train the children and the young people. I have to say that this is one of the greatest experiences I have had as a politician. It was both touching and beautiful to see that commitment and the joy and motivation of the children, and their eyes beamed. It was also quite impressive to see Wilhelm's speed in using the spell plate when he had to communicate with me and see and hear about Erika's great progress. It is parents who invest a hundred percent in their children's training, set aside their own needs, their careers and much more to help their children for a better future. You can see your child developing in spite of major brain damage and other innate disabilities, despite the fact that you may have received a message that it could not be done. The fact that we have this scheme in Denmark is fantastic, because what would the alternative be? It could, for example, be done. It is true that there was no surplus, no economy, no resources to have your child at home, and that as a parent you would have to leave a child outside the home. That is why it is so important to invest in this opportunity, and it should not be as we have seen and heard some municipalities say, namely that we do not have that product on the shelf here. Nor should it be the case that families have to fight so hard for help, and it should not be at all dependent on the municipality in which they live. We can see cases in the consultation answers which describe these particular challenges, and I hope that this bill will improve and strengthen the situation of families, because that is the intention. And if that does not happen, it is the most important task of the contracting circle to act on it. In the Danish People's Party we have had a number of questions and also suggestions for clarification. Not everyone has been accommodated, but a number of improvements have been made. The Minister has also promised to make a number of clarifications in the guide which make it all clearer. The Danish People's Party supports the intentions of the bill and will follow the implementation very closely. Of course we are a circle of agreements, and if we meet the challenges that some out there may be afraid of, we will address them. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301161052	Then it is the next rapporteur, and that is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301161102	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to all the parties of the Danish Parliament, because we are here today with something as rare as a bill that we all support. Some may sometimes get the impression that we can never agree on anything at all, but we can. For example, we can agree to make life easier for parents who have children as they train at home. That is not so many children, the debate we have today is about. On the other hand, it means a great deal to the parents and to the children that it is about. That is why it is a very important legislative proposal. I myself first got acquainted with the concept of home training almost a few years ago, when I was chairman of the Children's and Education Committee at Frederiksberg, and I was visited by some very committed parents. It was mostly mothers who wanted to be able to train with their children. It was after something called the ABA method, which I had never heard of before, but you have to learn as long as you live, and then I really felt that commitment; it seemed out of the parents. I think it's amazing that we have parents who throw so much effort into training with their children. This means, as the previous rapporteur for the Danish People's Party said, that many have to set up their professional career, etc. on standby to devote himself to the work with the children, which requires a very intense and time-consuming training. But it pays off because the kids are making progress. It's working. That is why it is good that today we are getting nailed in that home training is something that has come to stay and that it is written into the law and made clear that it is therefore an offer in the palette that we give to the parents who have children who, for one reason or another, need something extra. There was an experimental scheme that we adopted back in 2008 when we also agreed that we should review it. In the meantime, we have had the SFI to draw up a report on how things have turned out, which is why we have postponed the evaluation and now we have to find out what to do: should we continue with home training or should we not? There has been no doubt whatsoever that we should, because home training is something that we all support. Then some concerns have been raised, among others. of the association called the Brain Child, whether you will now see that the municipalities are taking advantage of the opportunity that exists to grant home training. It is clear that this is something we must follow. I do not share the same fears, but we must, of course, follow whether the municipalities are making use of the opportunity that exists to provide home training. Of course, it must be in the best interests of the child, but it is also in the vast majority of cases. It is extremely rare for parents to ask for home training for their children if there is no need for it. So I am not so worried, but we must of course listen to the concerns and follow the area. We have also agreed that we will take the whole area up again to see if there is any reason for further clarification or other, and then we will also come up with a guide in this area which will hopefully clear up any concerns that might arise.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301161434	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next one is sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301161444	Thank you. It is good that all parties in the Folketing have been able to gather to continue the home training scheme. It is an arrangement that today has a crucial importance for some 200 children and their families. • families who, because of the complex job cuts of children, have a huge need for us as a society to provide support and help that gives children the very best opportunities to develop and have a good and dignified life. With the home training scheme, we have an offer which has proved very much to be able to meet the specific needs of the individual child and which helps to create a secure environment both for the children and for families' daily lives. It is therefore good that all parties in the Folketing agree to make the scheme visible, so that more families become aware of its existence and in practice have the opportunity to apply the home training scheme. There is a need to correct the practice in many municipalities. A survey from the parent association Brain child shows that a very large proportion of the members of the association find that their municipality does not handle the current home training rules in accordance with the law. The scheme obviously operates very differently from municipality to municipality. The brain child's study shows that the processing times are very fluctuating: as much as 45%. has experienced a processing time of more than six months and 15%. has seen that the duration of the proceedings has been more than one year, even for some, much longer than one year. This is totally unacceptable, and it is therefore very good that the parties agree to stress the importance of a speedy procedure for local authorities. Another problem we have encountered is the difficulties that some families have in getting municipalities to provide a fair coverage of lost earnings when children reach compulsory school age. These are situations where the child gets both home training and home education. Here we have, among other things. a quite grotesque example of how parents have been set off against the loss of earnings in connection with home training, on the assumption that the child was taught 30 hours a week, even though, according to the parents themselves, the child concerned has a level of development equivalent to that of a 2-3 year old, and therefore, of course, it is not taught at home 30 hours a week, although this is the norm for primary school. I do not want to go into the specific issue in detail. I mention it merely as an example to illustrate how important it is that the comments on the draft law now state that guidance will make it clear that help can be provided to cover full-time lost earnings for parents who train at home, even when the child or young person is taught at home at the same time if the child's need for home training so requires. I think it is very important that we make this clear. Several hearings express concern about whether the revision actually alters the unfair set-off practices referred to. I understand the concern, but we have not been able to go any further with clarification of the law itself. On the other hand, I hope that in the near future we will see case decisions that ensure a fair coverage of lost earnings, and if that is not the case, the Enhedslisten will take up the issue again, because a high, unspeakable set-off in home education means in practice that it will be financially impossible for a family to train their child at home. And that would quite clearly be contrary to the intention of the legislative review. It is also pointed out in some hearings that a measure of suspensory effect should be introduced in the event of an appeal, so that no reduction in benefits granted etc. can occur until an appeal against a decision has been finalized. I also fully agree with that view, and I hope that it will be possible to respond to this request, not by incorporating it into this draft law, but by adopting a position on the motion for a resolution before Parliament on the general introduction of suspensory effect by means of an appeal. It is a very important principle to adopt if we are to ensure a proper legal position in the whole area of disability. With these comments, I would like to say that the Enhedslisten supports the proposed revision on the basis of the clear expectation that it will help both to clarify the rules and to change the practice in a number of municipalities so that more parents will be able to use the home training scheme for their children and that the scheme will be managed in practice through a better, more concrete and faster procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301161936	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301161945	Thank you. We are dealing with L 117, which, as I said earlier, is a political agreement on a review of the home training scheme. The aim of the review is to make the rules simpler, which has been very important for the Liberal Alliance. If you have a brain-damaged child and you don't think that the municipal offers are optimal, it's not fair that you have to fight a hard fight against the system to take over yourself. It must be unbureaucratic, and it must be easy. But with this review, the intention is also to support that decisions about home training are always made on the basis of an overall assessment of what is best for the child. I have no doubt that parents always want the best for their children, but I also believe that we have a responsibility to ensure that the public only supports proven training methods and ensure that parents are able to do the training and that overall training promotes the child's well-being. I also think it is quite reasonable that health professional training elements, which are defined as hospital treatment or have the character of specialised medical treatment, should not be approved as part of the home training, just as I think it is appropriate to include health professional competences if the training contains physical health professional elements of what must be considered as a not insignificant extent. I think it is only fair to the children that we make some demands. At the same time, I think it is very good that we clarify the rules for lost earnings when you train a child at home who reaches school age. The examples we have heard of where municipalities reduce the coverage of lost earnings by the number of hours that an aged child would have in primary school are quite unreasonable. First of all, home training is much more intense, and secondly, the child is typically not cognitively psychic, and it is therefore quite unreasonable to set up the same time perspective. It is therefore very good that with this review we make it clear that even if you train at home full time, you can also get full coverage of lost earnings even if you also teach your child at home. Last but not least, we are very pleased that this bill allows the municipal council to enter into an agreement with parents that a fixed amount is paid to cover foreseeable costs of training equipment, courses, assistants etc. This allows municipalities to cut off a lot of red tape, and it also facilitates some documentation requirements for parents. It is a step in the right direction. So, overall, we believe that these revisions strengthen the home training scheme and therefore support the Liberal Alliance bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301162237	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301162244	In the alternative, we have great respect for parents who choose to train their brain-damaged child in their own home. This is a good example of what we mean when we talk about smaller states and more communities, and we are sure that it will benefit the child to be trained in accustomed settings and by those who know it best. We are also sure that it is valuable for parents to be able to take concrete action and improve their child's life in a situation that is incredibly difficult for any family. During the revision of the law on home training we have received a great many inquiries from the affected families, and one of the things that has gone back is the joy of seeing your child evolve and improve his quality of life, often even more than the doctors had expected. With the review of this law, we have simplified the rules and ensured that decisions on home training are based on an overall assessment of the best interests and well-being of the child and young person. We have introduced requirements for the inclusion of health professional competences in training methods, we have created, at the request of both parents and municipalities, the possibility of reducing the number of supervisory and follow-up visits, and we have allowed municipalities and parents to agree on a fixed amount to cover the cost of training equipment and courses, etc. The last point seems to me to be important in order to prevent parents and municipalities, as has been the case in many places, from constantly discussing reimbursement of a large number of expenses, or popularly speaking, fighting from annexes to annexes. In the process we have had about the revision of this law, we have been very much in contact with the interest organisations behind the parents who train their children at home, and also very much with the individual parents. I think this is the legal treatment that I have been involved in, where we have received the most inquiries over social media, in e-mails, etc., where stakeholders and parents have wanted to advise us politicians in relation to the process. That is why I am a little worried that as far as today we have received inquiries from parents who are worried about this scheme still going away. I note that parents' concern is very much about whether the municipalities will comply with the revised law. I have also received the Danish map showing that there is a long way between the municipalities which, in the opinion of the parents, manage this very well. That is why I believe that we in the Committee on Social Affairs must be extremely careful whether the law is properly administered in the municipalities. For example: the parties agree that the municipality should have a special focus on quick processing in cases of home training. So we are also ready to act if it doesn't get better with the administration of this law in the municipalities. We agree that municipal case workers should have a good knowledge of the rules and be aware of informing parents about the home training opportunities. We will also support the case workers further in the home training area by updating the handbook on home training and developing an effective tool for municipalities to use during supervision visits. With all these measures and a watchful eye on how the law is administered in the municipalities when it comes into force, the alternative to this bill is voting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301162618	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301162632	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we are very focused on the fact that it is a review of the home training scheme that we are discussing here today. There are also a number of clarifications which have been mentioned by previous rapporteurs. When I draw it forward here as an introduction, it is because by the concept of clarification we also indicate by the Danish Parliament that it is all the parties plus the Minister that the home training scheme is here, that it is still gone and that there are a number of conditions that have not worked well enough. That is why clarification has been needed. This is at the same time a small call to the municipalities, which particularly points to their role and function as municipalities in relation to their citizens. We are talking about about about 200 children who have very strong disabilities and where parents have the opportunity to choose to train them for themselves. This also means that the municipalities must take note of the fact that parents have the right, if different conditions have been fulfilled, as the law also specifies, among other things. that it is a documentable method that is used, that health professionals are involved in it when necessary, and that there is cooperation between the municipality and the parents understood in the sense that the municipality should help the parents get the right that they have under the law. After all, the municipality is there to help the citizen, including that it goes the way they want to, when it is possible to legislate. This means that it is the child and that it is the parents, the citizen, who are the focus here. After all, all the requests we have received as rapporteurs on this matter say something about how much concern there actually is. We get a lot of worried emails from citizens and from parents who feel pressured and who do not fully understand the treatment they receive in one municipality as opposed to the treatment that others receive in another municipality. It is therefore also a question of the municipalities seeing it as their task to help parents by using the opportunities offered by this legislation. That is why we legislate on it, and that is why we have made a great deal of effort to ensure that all the parties in the Folketing agree on this law and that this proposal is put forward. It says something about how important we think this matter is for those citizens who are relatively few in number, but who are very vulnerable and very vulnerable parents and families because they have a child with a very great disability. Therefore, it is also important to look at the uncertainty that arises in a municipality if there are parents who experience that their case takes immensely long time. That is why the bill also stresses the importance of the municipalities focusing on the duration of the proceedings, but also that they make use of the knowledge of the organisation called VISO, which works really, very well and is very famous by many municipalities in order to help with knowledge and solutions in the issues which municipalities, which have few cases of this nature, cannot have in the same way. It is also a satisfaction, I think, that we can see that home training in this review of the law on home training is actually being made a special part of the law, because it is also used in the articles of the law. After all, it is also an emphasis that the Folketing is serious about home training being an area which the municipalities have to deal with according to the intention of the law and what the meaning of the law is. After all, the intention is to provide help to those citizens who need help, to be able to take care of their child's home training to the extent that they meet the conditions mentioned in the law, and this is particularly important because the family and parents often find that they have a special responsibility towards their child, who has a very great disability. So the clarification is meant as a preparation and as an emphasis that home training is here and is a legal choice for parents and that municipalities are set in the world to help parents achieve what they want within the framework provided by the legislation. In these words, we strongly recommend that we get through the legislative process quickly here, because such good preparatory work has been done, and we also sign up to the parties for cooperation and to the Minister for Cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301163114	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301163121	Parents of children with significant and lasting impairments of mental and physical function have shown that they can support their children's development through their great commitment and through training, which is based both on methods that can be found in public offerings to this group of children, but also by alternative methods that are used and recognised elsewhere than in Denmark. They must continue to have that freedom and opportunity, because there is no doubt that it makes a big and important difference to children's development and well-being that their parents involve themselves and take such great responsibility for their lives. The strength of the parents must be supported. At the same time, we have also heard from several inquiries from parents' organisations that the local authorities' practice as regards the authorisation and supervision of this scheme is very different, and the municipalities have stated that it is a law that is difficult to administer. It has therefore also been important that, when revising the law, we could make the rules clearer and simpler, while at the same time creating greater knowledge and recognition of the home training scheme. All the parties in the Folketing have negotiated a common political agreement which is the basis of the draft law we are discussing today, and I would like to sign for a very good and thorough cooperation. For SF, it has been important in the negotiations that parents should in future also have a real opportunity to train their children at home either full time or in combination with local social pedagogy assistance, that parents should be able to take responsibility for the training and that the municipality, in cooperation with the parents, can ensure that the training meets the child's needs on the basis of an overall individual assessment. In order to ensure the quality of the training, there must be supervision and follow-up in relation to the training with the involvement of relevant professional skills and thus also a close dialogue between parents and the municipality, but with the parents as those who in the daily best know the needs and development of the child. SF also wants parents to be able to lose earnings and financial support for training equipment, courses, helpers, etc. needed for training for the benefit of the child. This part seems to cause a number of problems in cooperation between parents and municipalities, not least when home training takes place at the same time as home education. That is why we in the SF also hope that with clear rules a more uniform practice can be created in this area, well supported by the manual that must follow the law, so that more knowledge can be gained of the scheme. Because, as far as one can hear, there is a very large difference between how well municipalities know about the scheme and how much parents are informed about the possibility. At the same time, it has been a desire of SF to simplify the practice of financial support for tools, so that parents and municipalities do not have to negotiate for each purchase whether it can be covered or not. Therefore, it is written into the bill that municipalities and parents have the opportunity to arrange a fixed amount for training equipment, courses and helpers. The SF supports the proposal, but we also take note of the consultation answers, some of which have already been incorporated into the legislative proposal, while others are something we need to be aware of. In particular, the parents' organizations, as well as the many requests I have received recently, have shown that parents are still anxious about legal certainty and the difference in practice and interpretation of the law. All of us who are behind the law agree that there must be new and better guidance and more local support. However, I am listening to the uncertainty that parents have, and it actually makes an impression, because it bears witness to bitter experience and mistrust that the system really improves. At the same time, in the conciliation circle, we have agreed that after two years there will be a follow-up to implementation so that we can see whether implementation also works as intended. There, I hope, we will see that the law has brought greater clarity and that it has secured a system of future protection from which many children and young people with disabilities have benefited. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301163554	Thank you. And the last rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301163605	Thank you. I am standing here on behalf of my good colleague Mai Mercado, who is actually the rapporteur on this matter but has no opportunity to be present in the Chamber today; she has a sick child. But she has written a detailed speech, which I will of course read out: in the autumn all parties were called for negotiations on the revision of the home training rules. As most will know, many parents with brain - damaged children are struggling hard with the municipality to get a proper framework to train their children at home. That is why I had also looked forward to finally creating a good framework that was decent for the children and where we could look at ourselves in the mirror and say that now we had improved the conditions of some families that are not easy. Because it is not easy to be the mother or father of a brain-damaged child with all the challenges it brings for a family, and at the same time feel that you run your forehead against a wall when you meet with skepticism and suspicion from the municipal system. It became a memorable process, because early in the process it became clear that the negotiations were not about improving the home training scheme, but about mitigating a further deterioration in the scheme. We are sorry that we failed to convince all other parties of the importance of home education and home training not being mixed up in the municipalities. There are too many municipalities that mix home education and home training together, and the children ultimately suffer. We would like to make it very clear today that we will continue to focus on the matter, also in the future. Families can count on that. We are also very sorry that a number of tools to help brain-damaged children can no longer be granted as part of the home training scheme. This applies to pressure chamber treatment, carbogen therapy, the use of reflex bags, which have otherwise been part of the home training scheme and part of the program from Family Hope Center, a program that many families train for. Then it also became too poor and too petty when we reached the discussion on self-payment on fragrance programmes. Here it was proposed to cut subsidies on consumer goods. Let me illustrate what that would have meant. Many of the children use fragrance programs where they stimulate their senses by smelling different strong fragrances and later recognizing them. It was proposed that there should be an own payment because many families already have many fragrances in the household, for example. Cinnamon in the spice cabinet or coriander as a herb standing on the kitchen table. Of course, it is often something you have in your household, but if you have a whole day trained scents with the children • children who are disabled and a helper, then you don't go home and use it in your cooking the same evening. This is an additional cost, and there must simply be limits to how petty it can be. On the other hand, we are very pleased that the number of surveillance visits is now limited from 6 to 2 visits a year. We are also very pleased that voluntary agreements can now be concluded between families and municipalities on the payment of a flat-rate payment covering the expected costs, so that all the bills and payments on the costs incurred by families are no longer to be submitted. Finally, I would like to call on all social and family rapporteurs to visit the Brain Child's Centre in Herlev, which is called Minimumps. To meet Filippa, William, and Elmo, all of whom use the training to get a better life despite the brain damage, must be said to have made an indelible impression on me, and I can therefore strongly recommend other politicians to visit and meet these children and their parents. We are part of the agreement behind this bill, and that is why we naturally support it. Despite the knots I have outlined here, we support the legislative proposal and the clarification that we have to say is taking place. However, we are also looking forward to the evaluation of implementation which will take place in two years' time. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301163958	Thank you. Then it's the Social Affairs and Interior Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301164005	Of course, there must be clear and clear thanks to all the rapporteurs, not only for the reception that the draft law has received here today in the Chamber at first reading, but indeed also for the course of the negotiations we have been through. As one of the rapporteurs whispered up here: sometimes it is good to do good work well and thoroughly. That's what you've contributed to. We have had some very good discussions and we have all agreed that this is not a large target group, but that it is indeed an important target group. I was there myself from the very beginning when we were doing the experimental scheme. Now it's cemented, especially with this review, that this isn't a commodity you have to hide on the shelves of the municipality. This is an offer and an opportunity, and it's a very special molding of people who can accept this offer and work hard with the work of home training their handicapped child. So thank you so much for the nice reception. Should questions arise during the committee procedure, I will, of course, be available to answer them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301164118	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301164133	The debate is open. Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301164153	It is, of course, totally unreasonable that people who have fought for Denmark and who have scars on their body and soul should get into trouble in the municipalities' struggle for who is responsible for providing the social assistance that they need. Our veterans have earned our respect, and I do not think that we have lived up to that with the fight that many veterans have had to fight, with regard to which municipality has had to pay for the bill that was in their situation. This bill is designed to ensure that the veterans do not get caught between the municipalities when they are staying at, for example. one of our veteran offers needs help under the Service Act and that the veteran offer does not become an economic burden for the municipalities where the veteran offer itself is located. I think everyone can hear that this is gonna be such a throw ball between one and the other municipality about who's gonna pay the bill for what. Specifically, this bill means that we are making rules for it, that is to say that we are making rules which, in terms of the municipality of commerce and payment, equate veteran offers with welfare homes for the homeless, and that means that a veteran's original municipality of residence will be the municipality of commerce and payment for the veteran, even if he is staying in a veteran offer located in another municipality. The draft law also contains a number of other changes, most of a resort nature, as a result of the resort change in the parliamentary elections. But what I have chosen to take note of here is that I believe that a problem is being solved which, of course, has caused enormous frustration among our veterans, and that is why the Social Democrats support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301164326	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Karina Due, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301164335	This bill may seem like a minor technical change, but it is actually an important change on a very important subject. It happens that this law makes it easier for veterans who need a stay on a veteran offer to have that stay after having been sent out. So far, we have seen that the veterans can get caught between two municipalities in relation to the economic challenge. In the Danish People's Party we believe that veterans who have served Denmark in the hot spots of the world must have the support and help they can get and they may need when they return home. Many soldiers come home with scars on their bodies and souls. They need there to be places where they can find their way back to a day-to-day life again. Such places are fortunately in the form of veteran homes, Veteran Bo and KFUM SoldiersRecreation. But the soldiers have often felt trapped between their home municipalities and the municipality in which the veteran home is located. It has sometimes ended up in that some soldiers have completely given up seeking help with great consequences. That is why, of course, we in the Danish People's Party are very happy that this bill changes the rules, so it is now clear that it is the citizens' municipality of residence that has the duty to provide the help. It could also be hoped that this bill will open up the possibility that several municipalities will want to set up veteran homes, when the law specifies that it is not the municipality where the veteran home is located that is financially burdened. It has now been established that it is the citizen's home municipality that is the paying municipality and therefore has the duty to provide the help. In addition, the draft law provides for final transfers of authorisation between committees due to resort changes of 28 June 2015. The important thing in this bill is the clarification of the payment of aid to our veterans, and of course the Danish People's Party can strongly support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301164616	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301164628	Thank you. We are now discussing a bill that makes life a little easier for our veterans. The Veterans are a group of people who have a special place with the Left, but I also think I can say that I can say that at the rest of Parliament's parties, for whatever one might think of our military efforts and contributions around the world, I think we can all agree that the soldiers we send out are people who act in Denmark's interest and on behalf of a majority in the Folketing and that they do a completely unselfish job in a working environment that I may well describe as being very unusual, to say the least. For this they must be very grateful to all of us. Veterans come home sometimes with scars on body and soul. They have seen and experienced things that can be hard to let go, and some are so badly affected that they will need help because they are diagnosed with a disease, or because, what is even worse, they are no longer able to cope with life. We must, of course, do everything we can to help them with the challenges they face. That is why, of course, the Left also supports the fact that we are now making sure that the veterans no longer feel trapped between the municipalities and no longer feel like throwing balls between municipalities, who are arguing about who is to pay the costs of the veterans who are staying in a veteran offer. Not all municipalities have a veteran offer. Not so many people do. We have it at Frederiksberg, where I live. And what we are now doing with the draft law is that we will have the legal status which, in general, also applies to all kinds of other areas, namely that it is not the municipality in which the offer of veteran is to pay the costs associated with that veteran. It's the veteran's original residence area. This is not going to mean that there will be no more disputes in this area. I can almost guarantee there will be. I myself, when practicing as a lawyer, have had a number of cases in which municipalities have struggled with each other about who had to pay the bill for different clients and about which municipality there was a municipality of residence, etc. But I would rather that the municipalities fight each other on the bill than that it is the veteran who has to fight to get the help that the veteran needs and needs. We are now making it clear unequivocally that it is not the veteran who is going to fight. If so, it is the municipalities that have to fight. It is the original municipality of residence which has to pay the bill for the expenses involved. So the veteran will not be a financial burden on the municipality which now has a veteran offer. This also means that, hopefully, in future, municipalities will be even more positive about creating offers, because that does not mean that they will have some associated costs. The draft law will help the conflicts that may be, but more importantly it will help the veterans who seek help. That is why, of course, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301164948	Thank you. Mrs. Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. No, it's first, sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. It went a little crazy, yeah, that's right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301165003	Thank you. And in fact, it should not have been at all, but in my good colleague Mr. I would just like to make a few comments on Rune Lund's absence. After all, the proposal intends to equate the rules for the offers made to veterans with those currently contained in the legislation on welfare homes and shelters, so that in future the original municipality of residence will bear the cost. The aim, as other rapporteurs have said, is to prevent veterans from finding themselves in a conflict between their original municipality of residence and their present municipality of residence in the often energetic dispute over who should financially pay the bill. We fully agree with the intention that it is not the individual veteran who should be put in such a squeeze and with that intention the Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301165108	Thank you. And now it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301165116	In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that it makes very good sense that the original municipality of residence also remains the paying municipality for social services to veterans who are staying in KFUM's military recreations, veteran residents or veteran homes. That's also how the rules are for people in shelters and welfare homes. At the same time, the original municipality of residence also remains the municipality of commerce for services under the Service Act, so that the municipality, which finances, also has the visiting competence. We think that is also sensible. We believe that this bill can change the fact that several veterans have felt trapped between municipalities, and that is why the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301165156	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301165202	Veterans should not be throwing balls in the municipal system. But they will be. But we will solve this by making a law that ensures that the cost of veterans' stay on veteran offers is paid by the municipality where they last had a population register address, even if they have moved from there. And you know what? It's all missing! In the alternative, we're happy to show respect to the veterans by supporting this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301165237	Thank you. Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301165246	Thank you. As we have heard from the previous rapporteurs, this is about the fact that we want to give our veterans fair and proper treatment, and therefore the same rights as other groups that use housing and welfare homes and shelters etc. in municipalities other than those originally their municipality of residence. Therefore, it is quite natural to make the same rules for who pays what and when. Therefore, it is the original municipality of residence, which is both the municipality of payment and the municipality of action, and the municipality which contributes to intercommunal reimbursements, as we know from other legislation. As others have said before: it was just missing and it may actually be surprising that a lot of years have passed before we have come up with this scheme. But now it comes, and at least it's a hand-out that matters. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301165337	Thank you. Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301165344	Thank you. It is very good that veterans, who have been out in extreme situations and can have both psychological and physical traumas with them home, can get some help. It is a positive development that it has become more widespread that veterans actually also seek help and use the offers that are in relation to them and their problems. In that situation, they need to use their energy to recover. They should not suffer from the division of our systems and feel trapped between municipalities when they need help under social legislation while staying in veteran services. In general, it must be said that it is often actually simpler and more flexible for the case, if the municipality of residence and the municipality of commerce go together, i.e. if funding and visitation go hand in hand. So we are also helping to ensure that with this bill, at least for veterans. Another purpose of the bill is that it will not be an expense for the municipalities that they have a veteran offer. The rules will thus be similar to those we have for welfare homes and shelters. Municipalities and veteran and homeless organisations also indicate in their consultation answer that this is a step in the right direction. So in the SF we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301165503	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Abildgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301165511	In the Conservative People's Party, we can hardly be enthusiastic about this bill. We think it is absolutely fantastic that this has finally come up in the Chamber. We have huge responsibility for our soldiers; we train them before we send them; we have to take care of them while they are on the road, but we certainly also have to take responsibility for them when they return home. That's why I really think it's been heartbreaking, the times I've visited KFUM's Soldiers Mission in Heavens, where I've talked to veterans who have told me that they've come home with scars on both body and soul, but who have also had to tell about how they feel they've become throwing ball in the municipal system. They have been willing to sacrifice their lives in Denmark's service, and yet they end up having to fight with the municipalities about who is going to finance their stay that they need so much. On the other hand, I have also spoken to our Conservative mayor in Allerød, for example, where this military mission in Høvelte lies, who has told us how it can be difficult for a single municipality and a small municipality such as Allerød to carry out the veteran assignment for the whole country together with a few other municipalities, which also have these veteran homes. So it makes great sense in every way that you now make this adjustment, so it will be the original municipality that will have both the obligation to trade and the obligation to pay. This will mean that the veterans do not end up playing ball in this system, and I know there are many people out there who are greatly relieved that this has now been on the agenda here in the Folketing. So much, great praise, also to the Minister and the Ministry, that this is finally being adopted. We have been cheering for this in conservative circles for a long time now, precisely because we have heard the cry of distress that has been there. So we're very, very happy about this bill and look forward to voting for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301165713	Thank you. Then it's the Social Affairs and Interior Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301165718	I will repeat myself here from before and will start by expressing my sincere thanks to all the rapporteurs. It's really nice to feel the clear support for this bill, so a positive receipt for the way the bill has been received. The primary purpose of the bill is precisely to ensure that the individual veteran does not get caught between municipalities when you need help under social legislation during your stay in a veteran offer and that the veteran offers do not become an economic burden on the municipalities where they are located. There has been a desire for the proposed change from a number of sides, as has been mentioned here too, and it has not only been from the political parties. It has also been from the organisations that run the veteran offers for our veterans. And so the wish has also been widespread among the municipalities. That is why I look forward to continued positive consideration of the proposal in committee and, of course, I will also be available here if there are further questions for the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301165830	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301165844	The debate is open, and it is first the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301165922	Thank you. The government wants as many people as possible to be able to vote for elections and referendums in Denmark. Fundamental democratic principles advocate that the circle of people with the right to vote in an elected body should be as broad as possible. And we will now have to deal with a legislative proposal which will give the vote to a slightly larger group of voters, which we will also have to deal with, because with the adoption of the bill, people will be able to vote in local and regional elections and European elections in the future, with the removal of legal capacity. This is a change in electoral law which has been in demand for a long period of time. It has been a great wish from among others. The Institute for Human Rights and from some of the parties of the Folketing, and that is a wish that we are now responding to. I therefore hope, of course, that we will be able to come together to implement the legislative proposal itself, so that we can also follow the tradition that we have, that changes, when we have to tamper with the foundations of democracy, are changes that are taking place with broad support in the Folketing. Of course, an extension of the circle of voters must take place within the framework of the Constitution. As can be seen from the observations made by the draft law, it is the government's opinion that the Constitution does not allow the right to vote in parliamentary elections and referendums to be granted to persons under guardianship who are deprived of legal capacity. And I would like to clarify why this is a state law and not a political issue. According to Paragraph 29 of the Constitution, if you fulfil four conditions, you have the right to vote in local elections. First of all, you have to have Danish citizenship, i.e. you have to have Danish citizenship. Danish citizenship, secondly, one must have a residence in the kingdom; thirdly, one must have reached the age of voting, which is fixed at 18 years, and fourthly, one must not be under-qualified. The last condition is the central one in this particular context, for it is the government's opinion that Paragraph 29 of the Constitution implies that in all cases where a person has been deprived of legal capacity under Paragraph 6 of the Law on the Guardian, he must forfeit the right to vote. Under the Constitution, there is therefore no possibility of granting the right to vote in local elections to persons who have lost their legal capacity as a result of legal guardianship under Article 6 of the Law. The same applies to referendums, as it follows from the Constitution that those who are entitled to vote in referendums are the same as those who have the right to vote in a parliamentary election. I am not going to examine the legal arguments here, but I can refer to the answer given by the Minister for Justice to the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs on this question, and we will be able to elaborate on that during the committee's deliberations. However, for the reasons I have just described, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution B 77 tabled by the SF. For that motion for a resolution, the government is required by the end of 2016 to put forward the necessary legislative proposals, which by 2018 will enable individuals to have the right to vote in parliamentary elections and referendums under guardianship, with deprivation of legal capacity, before the end of 2016. By its very nature, we cannot make legislative changes that are contrary to the Constitution, and so it will require a change in the constitution if we are to make people under guardianship entitled to vote for parliamentary elections and referendums. The bill therefore does not include voting rights for parliamentary elections and referendums. As already mentioned in my introduction, we want as many people as possible to be able to vote in Denmark, and if the Constitution means that there will be different voting conditions in different elections, then we will include it. And I would also like to say that differences in voting conditions are not really new; they already exist today. There is a difference between who can vote for different types of election. For example, in parliamentary elections, Danish citizenship is required, while it is not a condition in municipal and regional elections and in European elections. Then I should like to make a comment on the relationship with human rights, which is mentioned in the observations made in the motion for a resolution. It is clear from the observations that the restriction of voting rights for persons under guardianship, with the exclusion of legal capacity, may violate Denmark's human rights. In the view of the government, the withdrawal of the right to vote of persons under guardianship is not contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. And on this point too, I can refer to the Minister for Justice's answer to a question from the Legal Affairs Committee. Notwithstanding the fact that the draft law does not include the right to vote in parliamentary elections and referendums and that, as a result of the limitations of the Constitution, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled, I hope that we will now have a good and constructive debate. For the purpose of the draft law is to extend the circle of voters to municipal and regional elections and to European elections, within the framework of the constitution, and we can therefore welcome the fact that even more people will be able to participate in democracy in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301170459	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301170505	Thank you to the Minister for his speech and, by the way, thank you for bringing forward this bill. It's an important bill. I think that the Minister can figure out that what I would wish, though, was that we could actually have the full package, so that people who are subject to guardianship, because they have difficulty in controlling the economy, could also be allowed to vote in parliamentary elections and referendums. It is true that the Ministry of Justice has considered it to be unconstitutional because they equate the word 'immediate' and to be under guardianship. What is it that leads the government to believe that the term of the constitution is not legalized, since we have not, in the legislation today, the concept of 'immediate'?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301170604	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301170605	As I have been asked to do, the legal assessment is that exactly those names, i.e. guardianship and impelling, are equated, and that is the reason for this. I would very much like to clarify this in relation to the statements made by the Ministry of Justice. But at any rate they have said that it is precisely as a result of guardianship under Section 6 of the Law that voting rights are thereby lost to parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301170636	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301170638	That is precisely why I am asking why the Ministry of Justice is making the equivalence of the concept of under-boarding and guardianship. Because in a legal analysis there must be some justifications. That is not the same word, you can say, so there must be some reasons why you think it means the same thing. And I just find them incredibly difficult to find. We can then put a written question on that. But I'd like to ask you something. There are some citizens who have brought proceedings before the courts, so there is an opportunity for the Ministry of Justice to be told that they are wrong in their interpretation of the Constitution. But if they don't, it's a believer. I could understand that the Minister for Social Affairs certainly seems to agree with me that this is a problem. So will the government help to change the constitution if it turns out that these citizens are unfortunately not being upheld?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301170732	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301170733	I think that the rapporteur concludes a little quickly that I consider this to be a problem. Well, I don't think the Constitution's a problem. I note that with the Constitution in hand we have these limitations, and I think that it is perhaps going a little far to begin to change the constitution in relation to voting rights. It is true that four identical legal actions have been brought against the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior, which is about the applicants' wish to have the right to vote in local elections. These are some cases that are being dealt with together, and they are all from those who are under guardianship, with the exclusion of legal capacity. It is the Institute of Human Rights which has supported the applicants. The status now and here on the trial is that it is still gone in its initial phase.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301170822	Thank you. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Karen J. Klint, the Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301170839	Thank you. Since our rapporteur, Magnus Heunicke, cannot be present at the moment, I have promised to take his speech as rapporteur. I would like to start by thanking the Minister, because it is very easy to speak after the Minister, because when we work together on the proposals here, the Minister will then have a review, because there was also a motion for a resolution. It is true that the draft law gives people under guardianship the right to vote in elections to municipal councils, regional councils and the European Parliament. This includes approx. 2,000 Danes who are subject to guardianship, the so-called § 6 guardianship, and this means, among other things, that they are deprived of their right to vote. But these are the people who now have the right to vote and, when you have the right to vote, you also have the right to stand as a candidate. On the part of the Socialists, we support the bill because we want a strong and well-functioning democracy in which as many people as possible are involved. We are very concerned that people with disabilities, on an equal footing with others, can participate in political and public life, including the right and the ability to vote and receive elections, as provided for in the Disability Convention. For the same reason, when we sat in government, we have also done a number of measures which have just ensured greater accessibility, so that more people will be able to participate in the vote and democracy, among other things. by introducing rules to ensure that there is at least one physically accessible polling place in the municipalities so that people with disabilities do not necessarily have to vote at home, but can also go to a polling place and participate in the festivities and atmosphere of being an active participant in democracy. We will also ensure greater flexibility and more time to vote, because with regard to those voters who are in need of help, we cannot just expect them to be able to do so in the same way and with the same speed as others. We have also established that any electorate can vote in a letter without requiring that one be prevented on the day of the vote, and also that one can vote in a local authority other than where one lives. So we support Bill No. L 130. With regard to the motion for a resolution, we agree that there are some dilemmas and there we are getting into what the Minister went through about the constitution. We do not think that right now is a good time to revise the Constitution, but we look forward to the debate it can give. We are also looking forward to finding out whether there are any differences in interpretation of the concepts of non-advertising and guardianship, something which was also addressed by Enhedslisten in their two questions to the Minister. At least there has not been that difference so far, but it is interesting questions that are being asked, so it is good that we will also have it included in the committee's deliberations on the two dossiers. Right now we support the bill, but not the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301171135	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301171141	Thanks to the government for bringing forward this bill. It also looks somewhat like a motion for a resolution which we have dealt with in this Chamber before, from the SF, which we also supported at the time together with the Enhedslisten and the SF. Unfortunately, there was no majority in favour of the proposal then, and it will be exciting and see if there is a majority today. The purpose of the draft law is to grant the right to vote in municipal and regional elections and European Parliament elections to persons who are under guardianship and who are deprived of legal capacity under Article 6 of the Law. The draft law grants to those who are under guardianship, with the exclusion of legal capacity, and who also fulfil the other voting conditions, the right to vote in local and regional elections and European elections. As a result, the same group of people will also be eligible for local and regional elections and European elections and can therefore also be set up. Several of the consultation responses are also positive. However, in the hearings of the Institute for Human Rights and the Danish Disability Organizations, it is stated and recommended that persons under guardianship who are deprived of legal capacity under Article 6 of the Law on Guards should also be granted the right to vote in parliamentary elections and referendums. In this respect, it is, among other things, the case. stated that the organisations do not agree with the Government's interpretation of Paragraph 29 of the Constitution, according to which it precludes the granting of the right to parliamentary elections and therefore also referendums to persons who are under guardianship with the removal of legal capacity under Paragraph 6 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law It is further stated that it is contrary to Denmark's international obligations that persons who, under guardianship, are deprived of legal capacity under Article 6 of the Law on Guardians do not have the right to vote in parliamentary elections and referendums. It seems both logical and sympathetic, but in the Danish People's Party we have signed the Constitution, and as long as there are several different statements about how this passage in the Constitution should be understood, and we have no form of guarantee that it is not a breach of the Constitution's provisions, DF will await this guarantee. It is in connection with the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF. The draft law L 130 is a step in the right direction, and we in the Danish People's Party will be pleased about that. The Danish People's Party is always happy when legislative proposals are put forward in the Chamber, which can make it better for people with disabilities, so that they also have the right to be heard and can cast their vote. So the Danish People's Party supports L 130 but, in relation to the SF's motion for a resolution, which is co-treated with it, is a legal guarantee that it is not a breach of the Constitution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301171440	There's a questioner. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301171444	I think the Danish People's Party may have to be a little more precise on the question of which lawyer you want the guarantee from, to find out whether it is unconstitutional or not. It is, of course, a matter of legal interpretation whether or not the person who is not authorised is the same as being under guardianship. The Ministry of Justice is not going to give that guarantee. But let me try to put my question this way: if we now say that the Constitution is the Constitution, does the Danish People's Party think that one should also have the right to vote in parliamentary elections and referendums, even if one is subject to guardianship under § 6?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301171530	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301171534	Thank you. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, it seems both sympathetic and logical to have the right to vote in parliamentary elections. But it is the case that with section 29 of the Constitution and the Minister has also explained that today it is a question of how to interpret it. I have signed the Constitution and, of course, I intend to abide by it. There are doubts as to whether this is contrary to the Constitution. In any case, we have both the previous government's response that it is contrary to the Constitution, and now also the current government's response that it is contrary to the Constitution. Then I am just waiting for a clear answer that it is not contrary to the Constitution for us to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301171615	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301171618	I have to remember the special relationship with the Constitution when we discuss other matters, for example. on freedom of association, with the Danish People's Party. It is not always that one hears that perfectly clear position. But I think it is very good, because of course I am not suggesting that we break the basic law either, on the contrary. But we, as members of parliament, have signed that we will abide by the Constitution. That's what we're gonna do. But we have not signed that we will never change it or that we do not have any views on it. So if the Constitution prevents people who have been deprived of their legal capacity from having the right to vote in parliament and referendums for economic reasons, does the Danish People's Party think that the Constitution should be revised in this respect?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301171707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301171708	Thank you. I think we should be very careful to start touching the whole foundation on which we have built our society, including our legislation and the constitution itself. I think of it as a good foundation on a house. Once you start pulling some bricks out of the house, you run the risk of bursting together. So it is a fine balancing act, and at this point I and the Danish People's Party have no intention of opening a big debate about us starting to change the constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301171748	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301171758	Thank you. The Left supports the bill, but the Left does not support the resolution. We do not do so because the Constitution is, as the Constitution is, and I therefore find it difficult to see that one can argue that the withdrawal of legal capacity and impeachment are two different things. It's the same thing. What lies in the concept of being of age is that you have legal capacity and, if you do not have legal capacity, you are not legal. Therefore, I find it difficult to see how to avoid the constitution and how to interpret it differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301171831	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301171859	There are between 2 000 and 3 000 people in Denmark who have been deprived of their legal capacity and today they are automatically losing their right to vote. It's not fair. You are still a citizen, of course, even if you have a disability, a mental diagnosis, and have difficulty managing your finances. Having the right to vote and to put a cross on election day is a universal right in a democracy. This is not something to be earned or something reserved for the wealthy or the men or the healthy. Such thinking is a thing of the past. Paragraph 6 of the Værgetålsloven is therefore about people who find it difficult to control their economy because of e.g. mental illness or disability. This does not mean that they do not have political opinions or are worth less, and their ability to know what it is for societies they want to live in and be a citizen of is not gone. On the contrary. That is why it is so crazy that today, more than 100 years after the change in the constitution which gave the right to vote to women and the poor, etc., we still have a group of people in our society who are excluded from democracy. That legal provision should have been amended 100 years ago. Denmark has also been criticised by the UN in 2014 precisely for this, because it is in breach of the disability convention, which very clearly says that one should have access to vote and receive elections as a citizen with disabilities. It is also contrary to fundamental human rights as they have been adopted in the UN Universal Declaration and the Civil and Political Rights Convention. This is basically about equality, about equal rights, and there are too many prejudices and too much exclusion of people with disabilities in our society in general. This is very clear when we look at legislation such as this one, when in this way we do not have the will to give equal rights to participation in democracy. In the view of Enhedslisten, there are no factual reasons for such exclusion and exclusion. That is why it is clear that we support both the legislative proposal and the resolution. There is no doubt about that. The draft law, as has been said, is less comprehensive than the motion for a resolution. The draft law means that we are allowed to vote in regional, local and European elections, but not in referendums and parliamentary elections. The reason should then be that the Constitution prevents it, because the provision of the Constitution in Paragraph 29 says that people who have been deprived of the right to vote do not have the right to vote. It is then a legal interpretation whether one can equate the word with being subject to guardianship, despite the fact that the word "impotent' has not existed in Danish law since 1995. It is to me a very narrow legal interpretation that the Ministry of Justice has shown here. I think, in fact, that a contemporary interpretation could easily come to a different conclusion. It should also be remembered that there are many things in our constitution that are constantly subject to interpretation. For example: It also says that we have the right to a home, and there are still about 6,000 people in Denmark who have no place to live. There is then a group of citizens who have brought proceedings before the courts, and this is insanely important, because they can be allowed to challenge the interpretation of the Basic Law by the Ministry of Justice, and we can clarify whether the courts agree to understand the Basic Law as narrowly as the Ministry of Justice does. I hope not. I hope that the courts will put the Ministry of Justice in place and that we will stand here again and change the law so that this group of citizens can have the full right to vote. If that does not happen, then it is the clear position of Enhedslisten that it is the Constitution that is wrong with it. It is not the case that our society is best if it remains static. Sometimes you have to move a little on the foundation, especially when the foundation is so old and the foundation rules out a group of citizens who are clearly excluded for both unspeakable and old-fashioned reasons. So again I would say that we both support the draft law... that's a step in the right direction... and SF's proposal. We think it is very, very good that you have tabled it again. We hope that you will continue and we would like to help you put it forward over and over again until we get it adopted because it is insanely important. We also have some other proposals on how to do more to enable people with disabilities to participate more in democracy. At the last parliamentary elections we made for the first time electoral material for people with visual disabilities and all sorts of other kinds of disabilities. We believe that this should be compulsory for all parties, so that the right to information is better exercised. We also think that all polling stations should be physically accessible and one should be allowed to have a secret ballot so that one chooses who one wants to bring with him into the voting box for an election. I understand, moreover, that we can commend the government for being in the process of drafting that bill, so it is, after all, also a welcome piece of news. But, as I said, we may think that if you hide behind the Constitution in this case, despite the fact that it sounds like everyone agrees that we come to a bad conclusion, it's just a real shame.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301172509	Thank you to the rapporteur. It may go so far as to make a rapporteur's speech, but we must make every effort to ensure that we do not speak directly in this Chamber. Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301172523	This bill, that is L 130, was tabled last year as a motion for a resolution by the SF. Here, the Liberal Alliance voted against, and we intend to do so again, even though it is being tabled today as a bill by the Left. In the Liberal Alliance, we do not believe that voting rights should be granted when you are under the age of age. It is basically about the prerequisites for our democracy. For me, it is very much about whether democracy is taken seriously. As I see it, the foundation of our democracy is that we have faith that citizens know what is best for themselves, and therefore, of course, they must also help to organise society so that it is best for everyone. Unfortunately, we have a group of people in our society for whom a court has provided that they do not know what is for their own good. They've been taken out of custody. When I think precisely that the conditions for our democracy and the great codecision that we as citizens have here in Denmark are based on knowing what is best for ourselves, I cannot, of course, support the fact that people who do not know what is best for themselves should have the right to vote. Naked can be said that these people have been deprived of the right to control their own lives, and now they will be given the right to control the lives of other people. Because it's de facto what you do when you put a cross on election day. You vote for politicians who want to pursue a policy that deals with all people in Denmark. Whatever it is about, whether you are going to prison, when you steal a pack of chewing gum, or if you can release a fine, how many refugees we have to accept here in Denmark, or how high the cash aid should be, that is what people who have been denied the right to decide on their own lives, with this bill being allowed to decide. I cannot understand why people who cannot make crucial decisions in their own lives should be able to make decisive decisions on behalf of all of us. Then there has been talk of so few people being involved that it will not be a decisive factor in elections, but I think that is actually a very bad argument, because that argument does not take democracy seriously. This is basically. At least it is for the Liberal Alliance. We do not believe that children should have the right to vote in Denmark, and that is why we will vote against the proposal. This applies both to the draft law and to the same arguments, of course, to the resolution of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301172759	Thank you. This has led to a few brief comments. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301172807	Thank you. That's something surprising. That's what I'm gonna say. Couldn't Mrs Laura Lindahl just clarify to me what it means to be deprived of legal capacity under § 6? Because it certainly sounded as if Mrs Laura Lindahl said that it meant that you were unable to make any decisions about your own life. So is it correct that this is what you are not allowed to do when you are subject to section 6 of the guardianship law, so to make all decisions in your life?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301172835	Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301172836	No, not all decisions, but decisive decisions that are about legal transactions. Thus, according to Paragraph 6 of the Law on Safeguards, the person who has been deprived of his or her capacity to act is a minor person and cannot commit himself by legal action or possess his or her assets. And if you cannot have your own fortune, if you cannot enter into legal action yourself, then we do not think you should be able to do so on behalf of all other Danes either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301172905	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301172905-2	Now I am confused again, because I do not think, funny enough, that because you have the right to vote, you are allowed to enter into legal proceedings on behalf of everyone else. One gets to give one's mind with and have an opinion on what kind of society we have to live in. Does Mrs Laura Lindahl think that because you are unable to take care of your own fortune, you are not able or entitled to have an attitude towards the society in which you live and are a citizen? Then you can't be in it at all. And could Mrs Laura Lindahl just clarify whether there are other groups in society that the Liberal Alliance also believes should not have that right as a citizen?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301172954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301172956	To start with the last: yes, there are other groups, for example. children. What is the target group here is under-age people, and we do not believe in the Liberal Alliance that under-age people should have the right to vote in Denmark. Of course you have to have an attitude, of course you have to participate in democracy, but when you go down the voting box and cross yours, you have de facto codecision over other people, and we do not think that is something that should be done by minors. It doesn't matter if it's because you're severely deformed, hard demented, insane or 12 years old.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301173033	Then it is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301173037	I would therefore like to pay tribute to Mrs Laura Lindahl for her clear statement that there is a certain group of people here, 3 000 to 4 000 people, who must be cut off from the democratic debate. I would like to hear what Mrs Laura Lindahl and the Liberal Alliance think about the fact that a citizen, for example, is not legally responsible. suffer from gambling and thus are under guardianship?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301173116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301173116-2	Now it is not the Liberal Alliance that makes the rules on when you are under authority, and these are not the rules we are discussing today. Today we are discussing whether to have the right to vote when you have been deprived of the right to vote. Then it may well be that Mrs Trine Torp has a position on when to be under authority, but that is not what we are discussing. Our position is clear: when there is a court that has deprived a person of authority, that is, when you have been deprived of authority in Denmark, we do not believe that you should have the right to vote. This does not mean that we cannot participate in the democratic debate. You can do that if you have the skills to do it. But here it is about children, and here we say: you cannot take care of your own financial interests, you do not know what is best for yourself in this area, and of course you should not have any influence on how big a deficit we should have on public finances in our society. I think that's common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301173212	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301173213	I would like to know where in the guardianship regulations there is anything at all about you being under legal guardianship, that is another thing. But does Mrs Laura Lindahl think that, because of gambling, we should be prevented from voting at any election in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301173232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301173233	Now it is the case that Paragraph 6 of the guardianship law. 2, says that you have been deprived of your capacity to act, and that means that you are underage. It is not something we invent; that is what the law is. I would like to say to the question of whether a gambler should not be able to vote, that again it is a discussion about whether or not to be a child. Now, in the comments on the draft law and also on the motion for a resolution, there is no question of gambling at all. They're not the ones mentioned as the majority of this group. The majority of this group of people who are under authority are, after all, weak: mentally handicapped, insane people, schizophrenic people and severely demented. So it is not people who are enlightened, as Mrs Trine Torp and I are. There we simply have the clear position in the Liberal Alliance that if you are not able to defend your own interests, you are not able to take care of them on behalf of all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301173334	Then it's mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301173336	I agree with the fact that this is a clear speech, but I would nevertheless like to ask Mrs Lindahl to clarify which other groups might be excluded from voting rights. Do I understand correctly when I hear that Mrs Laura Lindahl believes that people with disabilities and those with development should also not have the right to vote in this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301173359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301173400	What we in the Liberal Alliance mean, and as I think I have said a few times now, is that people who are underage in Denmark do not think we should have the right to vote. And it doesn't matter whether you've been deprived of your authority on the basis of one or the other disease, or whether it's because you're only 12 years old. People who are not of age, we in the Liberal Alliance do not think should have the right to vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301173426	Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301173429	So, as the rapporteur said in his first speech, on people who cannot make decisive decisions about their own lives, the rapporteur does not think that should be taken so literally, I understand the last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301173443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301173444	No, in the Liberal Alliance we believe that when a decision has been taken, when a court has gone in and has deprived a citizen of the authority, the capacity to act in relation to the law, a strong signal is sent that the citizen does not know what is best for himself. Then we in the Liberal Alliance do not believe that we can assess what is best for society and all of us as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301173509	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301173525	These proposals are about ensuring that people under guardianship have the opportunity to exercise their democratic rights. It is about people, for example. may not dispose of their own assets or commit themselves in legal proceedings. And who is that? That is, for example, the case. Insane, who in a manic state will spend all their money on something that they will regret bitterly when their mania is over. It can be active demented people, people with mental development impairment and people with schizophrenia. There may be good reasons, for example. to deprive those people of their economic or legal capacity, but in the alternative we see no reason also to deprive those people of their democratic right to vote in various elections. We therefore welcome the fact that they will now be put to the vote in local, regional and European elections. If we can allow the same people to vote in elections without breaking the Constitution, we will also be positive about it. In other words, we see no logical reason for voting for regional, local and European elections, but not for parliamentary elections. However, I am just as reluctant to break the constitution as my fellow Members are, so the vote of the alternative to let the target group vote in parliamentary elections is, of course, dependent on us clearly seeing that it is not unconstitutional. I do not think this case is large enough to justify a revision of the Constitution, but when the pile of inappropriateness becomes so large that the law will have to be revised at some point, we clearly believe that the B 77 issue must be addressed so that we ensure that people who are under guardianship can also vote in parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301173714	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301173724	Thank you. I have been given the honour of being rapporteur on these two items on the agenda at very short notice, as our rapporteur, Mr President. Andreas Steenberg, cannot be present in the Chamber at this time. That is why I have to say that the Radical Left will support L 130 and will not support B 77, and I would like to elaborate on that. It is well known that the Radical Left has been working for many, many years to set up a Constitutional Commission, because we believe that the Constitution is written in a language which is very difficult for modern people to read and understand. I shall not give many examples, but just mention one, and that is that the King has a great many powers, as you will see, if you read the Danish Constitution and take the words literally and I have heard that the King of Nepal, when he heard about the Danish Constitution, would therefore also have one; one could understand that. We have also made a decision in the Folketing to send a contemporary formulation of the constitution to everyone in Denmark when they are 18 years old. So I am the mouthpiece of those who would very much like to see a Constitutional Commission set up so that we can have a revision of the Constitution. As far as I understand the parties in the Folketing, this has very long prospects, even as we would like it to be, of course, a very broad-based constitutional commission. Then we come to what is at the heart of the matter today. It must be assumed that it is Paragraph 29 of the Constitution that has meant that having a guardianship is interpreted the way we have now heard. By going to google a little this afternoon I regret that this was the way I had to go, in order to be able to get to know this very quickly, it has come to my attention that it is possible to launch a guardianship without the person in question being under authority. In the case of a guardianship, one can choose to deprive the legal option, as it is now called, of the new word for the concept of impelling according to what I have Googled myself to. I also agree with those who have indicated that people with disabilities must be treated and have the same opportunities as everyone else in society; they must have the right to education, to education, to be citizens and to be able to participate in the public debate. And it is not up to us in the Folketing to decide what handicap it is possible to live with if you are to be a citizen, everyone has the right to do so in principle. That is why I think it is very sensitive to reinterpretation of the Constitution in the Folketing, which I had almost said overnight. It takes more in-depth work to clarify what it is that is up and down in this matter, and the Radical Left would like to contribute to that. However, as the matter has been brought to light right now and with the Government's statements, we prefer to wait to deal with the matter in B77 more thoroughly than it has been possible at this stage before deciding whether Article 29 of the Constitution can be interpreted in a new and different way than it has been in the past. I think it is popularly very sensitive if it is experienced in such a way that the Folketing can suddenly change the understanding of the constitution and the interpretation of the provisions of the constitution. This requires much more preparatory work and a better public debate before we go so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301174110	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301174125	Thank you. After all, as politicians and as citizens, we are defending free and equal elections, or at least that we should have free and equal access to vote in elections. We can say that this is what we see historically as having been done on several occasions; we have expanded the circle of people who have been given the opportunity to participate in democracy. It is right in it. The free one can say this is a difficult question. I am not the first to acknowledge that, because that is what other rapporteurs have said from the platform before me, but I would like to acknowledge, like others, that this is a difficult issue. It is true that it has been estimated that persons under guardianship are not able to take care of their own personal or financial interests. Now the example of one who suffered from gambling was brought up before, and I can see that that person is able to vote for a parliamentary election, despite the fact that he has problems with his desire to gamble; but, on the other hand, we also know that there are people under guardianship who may have very, very difficult disabilities, which make them unable to formulate who they want to vote for. I really think that this is an important principle, which in any case lies in the law of guardianship or not, namely that in any case you should be able to freely formulate who you want to vote for. That is a fundamental principle. And anyone who is able to do so should have the right to vote. That is why we support L 130, which deals with local elections, regional elections and EU elections, while we listen to the legal concerns and therefore reject B 77 on the basis of some of the same considerations as other rapporteurs have put forward about the Constitution. So all in all, yes to the bill and no to the resolution of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301174351	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next in the rapporteur's line is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Trine Torp, from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301174404	Thank you. After a very special week, which has in many ways shaken Danish democracy and parliamentarianism, I think we should welcome the proposal we are debating here today, L 130, because we are now proposing a slight expansion of Danish democracy; an enlargement that matters to the people concerned and which gives several Danish citizens the opportunity to vote under guardianship. SF has expressed this wish on several occasions, including the following: in relation to our motion for a resolution from the 2013-14 parliamentary assembly. At that time, just under two years ago, the position of the Left was, and I quote, not to have the right to vote if you are not authorised. Now the Left has turned on a plate and supports the SF's view because it states that as many as possible within the framework of the Constitution must have the right to vote in national elections. It is, of course, very welcome and high time for the government, with L 130, to put forward a legislative proposal which, if adopted, will give people under guardianship the right to vote in elections to the European Parliament and in municipal and regional elections. It is clear from the comments that the reason why this group is not being granted the right to vote in parliamentary elections and referendums is that the government considers that the constitution stands in the way of this. Nothing is above or beside the Parliamentary Assembly. We all agree on that. This does not mean, of course, that the Folketing works in a lawless space and can afford anything. No, we are subject to some rule of law, and we are pleased about that, but we must say no when the government uses references to the Constitution to impose unnecessary restrictions on what we can adopt legislation. That is why we have tabled B 77, which must also give citizens, under guardianship, the right to vote in parliament and in referendums. The Institute for Human Rights has been arguing for a long time now that we violate human rights every time we hold parliamentary elections and referendums and exclude people under guardianship from voting in all elections. Human rights cannot be postponed by legal subtleties or by the fact that we have always interpreted the constitution in a certain way. It may be that the text of the Constitution is cut in stone because it is so difficult to change. Does this mean that we have maintained the view of democracy and people that the authors of the Constitution had? No, the fact that the constitution is so difficult to change means that we in Denmark have become incredibly good at interpreting the constitution. For example: It is now as Mrs Marianne Jelved also pointed out that the government read the King's solution is so simple. The Constitution states that one must not vote for parliamentary elections if one is under-qualified, but the concept of under-qualified has changed over the years and is no longer used in guardianship law. It stands to say that it was only under-qualified in the old-fashioned sense that was not allowed to vote. It is no place to stick to the old-fashioned interpretation of the Constitution. The Constitution should not be used to justify human rights violations; it should be used to uphold the rule of law. As stated on many occasions, SF believes that it is untenable and undemocratic that it is based on the law on guardianship and an old-fashioned interpretation of section 29 of the Constitution today that a large number of Danish citizens are deprived of the possibility of democratic influence. That is why we also think, in line with the Institute for Human Rights, that we should go one step further and also give these citizens the right to vote in parliament and referendums. In the SF, we do not believe that there are any factual grounds for continuing to deprive persons under guardianship of the right to vote on the basis of Paragraph 29 of the Constitution. The Constitution has never been intended to limit the fundamental rights of citizens, and this problem becomes quite evident when we now hopefully give the same citizens the right to vote in the European Parliament and in the municipalities and regions, among others. Because, according to several lawyers, the non-authority clause, among other things. Mads Pedersen of the Institute for Human Rights, has previously been hung up on a certain spiritual capacity and is now mainly hung up at the disposal of his own estate, as he expresses it. This last demand was then justified, according to the same Mads Pedersen, by the fact that, for technical reasons, the exclusion of voting rights must be linked to a strict criterion. In the SF, we, like the Institute for Human Rights, believe that the Constitution intends to ensure the legal certainty of citizens and a democratic society. We therefore believe that if we continue this practice in Denmark, we will put ourselves in a carambola with the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United Nations Convention on the Disability of Persons and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. It states that any discrimination based, inter alia, on: disability which is not objectively justified and proportionate shall be prohibited. This is clearly not the case if, as a citizen, you want to influence budgets and local planning in all the municipalities in the country, but do not influence the country's financial and planning laws. That is why we also hope that the government and parliament will welcome the motion for a resolution, but since I cannot round off the debate on the motion for a resolution, I have to do so here at the same time. I have listened to the fact that it is the differences in the interpretation of the basic law that are the main issue in this debate, so what can be said here about comparing guardianship with impeachment? One must then consider how to resolve the legislative knot either by perhaps amending the legal provisions or taking them up in the context of a constitutional revision. After all, we can respect the Constitution while at the same time wishing for a fair interpretation and, ultimately, perhaps having a desire for some changes. After all, the constitution exists to be amended and to guarantee democratic rights. But I think we need to clarify whether there is a guarantee that it is not unconstitutional. I would like to call for a more in-depth analysis of whether the proposal is in fact unconstitutional, and I would like to do so with the opinion of other legal experts, because we can see that the legal experts disagree, but also because in the long term we will have to deal with international conventions, according to the comments made on the draft law. I would also like to say that this small matter, in line with many others, shows that the Danish constitution is quite out of date and that it is crying out for the need for a Constitutional Commission. But thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301175150	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next speaker is the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. For the second time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301175205	Thank you. I'm on the platform again to sign for the first reading of Bill No. L 130 and I would like to thank the rapporteurs for receiving the draft law and for it, I think, quite excellent debate we have just had in this Chamber on the subject. The aim of the draft law is, as has been said, to extend the circle of voting rights to municipal and regional elections and to European elections, by granting the right to vote to persons who are under guardianship and who are deprived of legal capacity. So in other words, it is a legislative proposal that is about one of the cornerstones of our democracy, namely who can vote. I am pleased to note in this Chamber that there is indeed broad support among the parties for this bill, and then I would just like to reiterate in this context that we in the government insist that we reject the SF motion for a resolution on the right to vote for persons under guardianship, with the exclusion of the legal capacity for parliamentary elections and referendums, because we are not prepared to make legislative changes that are contrary to the basic law. I am, of course, available to answer any questions which the committee might wish to clarify during the committee's examination of the draft law itself and, of course, also of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301175328	Thank you, Minister. No one has asked for the floor. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law and the resolution be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301175404	The debate is open. I give the floor again to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301175418	Thank you for the floor. The motion for a resolution here, B 60, proposes that the government should make it compulsory for municipalities to use beliefs and legislative declarations when re-granting aids and disabled cars when the citizen's ability to function has not improved since the last grant and the citizen wants to make use of a declaration of faith and law. Today, in both areas, it is the municipality which in the individual case assesses whether it will make use of a declaration of faith and law when reassigned. There is therefore in the law the so-called "can' clause which the municipality can apply if it considers it appropriate. The purpose of the motion for a resolution, according to the comments, is to make the procedure as quick and simple as possible, while at the same time reducing the use of municipal resources and reducing the length of the processing times. In addition, citizens are better off, not being insecure or nervous about losing their aids or their disabled car. In general terms, I would like to start by saying that the government naturally agrees that it is desirable to have both quick and simple procedures in the social field, and we also very much agree that the possibilities of simplification should be explored in general terms. It is indisputable that quick and simple procedures are of benefit and benefit to citizens who need help and support in order to make their everyday life work. It is equally indisputable that it will benefit the municipalities if the administration can be facilitated and municipal resource consumption can be reduced in this respect. Therefore, the focus is also on regulatory simplification and debureaucratisation in the work on reforming the adult regulations of the Services Act, which we in the government are working on. The reform must be seen in the light of the fact that, in my opinion, our current service law, especially in the adult sector, has become too complex and too difficult for municipalities to administer properly. When you read the first part of the motion for a resolution, namely the element of compulsory use of faith and legislative declarations in cases of re-granting aids, this very proposal actually forms part of the reform work. The aim is to ensure that a quick and simple procedure can be carried out in connection with the re-granting of aids. In the government, therefore, we will ensure that this particular element of the resolution is dealt with in the context of the reform work, so that it can be discussed in conjunction with other initiatives, which are also part of the overall reform of the adult provisions of the Services Act. In fact, I can say that last week the Ministry presented this proposal to the follow-up group set up under the reform work, and the feedback was that it was clearly a proposal that was received very positively in the follow-up group. It also makes sense, because I think we can all agree that the re-granting of a blind stick or leg prosthesis must always be possible by means of a declaration of faith and law by the citizen in cases where the situation has essentially remained unchanged since the last allocation. And in such cases it makes absolutely no sense for me to take further action if the blind or benamputated citizen, on faith and laws, signs that conditions are unchanged. After all, the citizens' disability does not go away, and the need here is for me to see indisputable. The second part of the motion for a resolution deals with the compulsory use of beliefs and legislative declarations in cases of re-allocation of disabled cars. And I have to say that we cannot support that part of the resolution. This has to be seen in the light of the length of the re-granting process in the car cases here, because the re-granting of a disabled car is, as a rule, something that only happens after six years, and when the re-granting period is so long, the experience of the specific cases shows that there will almost always be a need to obtain new information, even if the citizen's disability is essentially unchanged. It can, for example, be done. In this context, it should be pointed out that the citizens' driving needs can now be better met by other means than the granting of a disabled car, or that the driving requirements have changed as a result of changes in the educational, employment or life situation in general. So if the use of faith and legislative declarations in vehicle re-granting cases is made compulsory, the individual citizen, when reading the legislation, will get the impression that re-granting a disabled car will mostly be something that will happen without further processing and without obtaining new information, and it will just not be in line with the reality where experience shows that it will often not be enough with the information that was present in the recent decision. So if we write mandatory use of beliefs and declarations of laws into the legislation, it is my view that it would be to lead the citizen to a legal situation which, for a large part of the case, will not actually apply, and that would certainly not be healthy or beneficial for the cooperation between the citizen and the municipality. In fact, as I mentioned very briefly, the municipalities already have the possibility of re-engaging a disabled car by using faith and a declaration of laws, and we therefore find in the government that it must continue to be up to the municipality to assess whether a declaration of faith and law should be applied in the specific case. So, overall, I would say that the first part we see as part of the overall reform, the second part, with the re-allocation of disabled cars, we cannot support. Against this background, we cannot support the overall motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301180040	One has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301180045	Thank you. Thank you, too, for the positive statements, at least on one part of the resolution. I just want to ask the minister if the Minister can explain how many municipalities have applied a belief and law declaration to the re-granting of the disability car, after we made the amendment of the law that, like making it easier for the municipalities, they could apply this belief and law declaration.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301180113	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301180114	As I know the rapporteur's way of asking questions, I am sure that the rapporteur knows the number and I could be quite convinced that it is not something that has been used very much, although the possibility is there. However, as I also explained, I see sense in the fact that, when the number of years have passed when a disabled car is re-elected, you are looking at what the citizen's life situation and driving needs are basically. It's for me to see natural enough. Anyway, I totally agree that the opportunity to use it is there, yes. It is not an option that has been used, but in the case that you get a disabled car at a very young age and you are still away in the same type of employment and your disability has not improved significantly, it is obvious that the municipalities are using it. I also think we should draw the attention of the municipalities to the fact that we have actually created this opportunity so that they can simplify the procedure where they know about the life situation and needs of the citizen at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301180212	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301180216	Now, of course, from political experience, I have learned that one should be happy at least to have some. So I want to hear the Minister: if we defined it in relation to saying that the citizens' driving needs are still the same and that they have been paralyzed all their lives and will not be able to walk, does that mean that the Minister would like to take a look at the fact that it could be written in, that if the driving needs are still the same and the situation of the citizen has not changed, then would the Minister like to take section 114 of the Service Act in relation to this too?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301180255	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301180257	Well, what the rapporteur is asking for is, of course, a shell provision, and I would like to make it clear, however, that I do believe that it makes a great deal of sense for each municipality to use beliefs and declarations of laws in cases where it is obvious that the need for transport is unchanged and that the reduction in function is also unchanged, or at least not significantly improved. Well, then it makes sense. And it is for me to see more about an information campaign than about making legislation where we go in and make shell regulations. I don't necessarily feel very comfortable with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301180344	No one else has asked for brief comments. We thank the Minister. The first rapporteur in the series is Mrs Karen J. Klint, Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301180354	Thank you. So this time I'm gonna go to the platform on behalf of Mr. Knox. Orla Sea, working for Nordic cooperation. As the Minister has rightly said, there are some opportunities today for following the beliefs and the declarations of laws in the adult rules, and a series of meetings has also begun to look at the adult rules of the Services Act. The Socialists are not in favour of a compulsory system of declarations of faith and law and thus of binding the municipalities on it. However, when the municipalities often talk about trouble and administrative bureaucracy and everything else, then we wonder why they do not make greater use of faith and the declarations of laws, given that they now have a legal basis. However, we look forward to the investigation into the provisions of the Services Act which are to begin and, as I said, the first meeting has been agreed. And in respect of that work, we do not think we should go in and change things now, but we can see whether there should be a stronger call in future for us to go the easy way in the matters that are suitable for it. I have also noted that both the proposal here and the current rules talk about whether there has been any change or improvement in a disability, but it could also happen that there were deteriorations, so that the need actually increased. The Minister also mentioned here that driving needs may change. After all, there is a significant difference between the two things: whether you should have a regular aid or whether you should have a car. In terms of both price, needs and function, there is a difference between the means for which a declaration of faith and laws can be made. So I think it is suitable for some things, for well-known matters and for things that are worn down quickly, and as to whether it should then be used in connection with some very long-term matters, it may well be that there needs to be a conversation and an assessment, also to ensure legal certainty for the citizen who otherwise does not get the most optimal and modern aid. So we do not support the resolution as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301180611	One person has asked for a brief comment. In fact, I should like to begin by regretting to Mrs Adsbøl that I had her last name misspelled. This is because I live in a city that is pronounced differently but which is spelled in the same way. Here you go, Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301180631	Thank you. The Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Karen J. Klint, is busy today and is a good colleague. It is good that we have her as rapporteur on the platform. I would like to hear what Mrs Karen J. Klint thinks about allowing municipalities in their time to apply a declaration of faith and law. Should I understand the rapporteur's speech in such a way that the rapporteur is not happy with the provisions of the Service Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301180702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301180705	That depends, of course, on what this is all about. Just as to whether it is a declaration of faith and law or the way one organises its administration, I do not think that we, as Parliament, should place some regulations on the municipalities. But I think we should make the municipalities realise that when we really help them to go the easy way, why even go the troublesome way? So there is a very large difference between which elements of the Service Act we as a party think there should be some shell-, should- or may-or-can-provisions on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301180734	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301180737	Well, what's a little interesting is to hear what the Social Democrats are going to do to ease this processing burden, compared to the fact that in several municipalities it actually takes over a year to get a re-grant or to get a disabled car. And it can do so for several reasons, for example. because the employee who sits in the area is on sick leave. This is one of the reasons given in a reply to the Parliamentary Social Committee. And that is why the Danish People's Party wants to make this easier, faster and simpler for the citizen. So what is the Social Democrats' solution to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301180813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301180815	Well, the practice of temporary employment for a sick worker doesn't change whether there is a "scale" or "scale" provision in the Service Act. So I think we should do more to provide information to our good fellow party members, each in the municipalities, so that they can see that there is an easy way, and that we do not need to go the hard way, but that we can demand a declaration of faith and law, and perhaps also by doing so relieve the case workers a little of the workload that exists. For it could be that the number of sick days decreased if it became a little easier to be a case worker in the municipalities. So we agree with the aim of the resolution, but not in the procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301180854	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's line is the rapporteur of the Liberal Group, Mr von der Vring. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301180903	Thank you for that and also thank the authors of the motion for a resolution, which I understand in many ways has been tabled, but which I must nevertheless disappoint the authors of the motion for a resolution to say that the Left cannot support. And I'd like to try to explain why we can't do it. If you read the motion for a resolution, as formulated on the first page, you can read that the Danish Parliament must require the government to make it compulsory for municipalities to use faith and legislative declarations when regranting aids and disabled cars when the citizen's ability to function has not improved since the last grant. But when you go in and read the comments, it is not the same thing. For what the Danish People's Party writes here instead is that it must be made compulsory for the municipalities to apply a faith and law declaration in connection with the re-granting of aids and disabled cars and now the addition comes in cases where it is obvious that the applicant's ability and needs are then added, essentially have not changed. In other words, we are moderating what is written in the motion for a resolution itself, and I think it is wise to do so. But it also means that whether you have an option or an option, i.e. in reality the world will not mean the big difference. And I'll try to explain why. As the rules are today, municipalities have an opportunity to settle for a declaration of faith and law in cases where it is obvious that needs and ability to function are unchanged. What the Danish People's Party wants is for there to be a duty of faith and law, unless it is not obvious that needs and ability to function have changed. It's the same thing. It is exactly the same thing as a prohibition is the same as an injunction with the opposite sign. For example, voting is prohibited if you are under 18 years of age, and that is exactly the same as saying that voting is allowed if you are over 18 years of age. It's the same thing. And so it is also the same thing that the Danish People's Party writes; it will not change it, because the municipalities will still have to settle only for a declaration of faith and law if it is obvious that the citizen's ability and needs have not changed. So what you risk, if we adopt the resolution from the Danish People's Party, is that a lot of disabled citizens will be bogged down because they will think that the municipalities will be content with a declaration of faith and law, but it will not, because it is the exception, that it is obvious that there is no need to go in and look at the matter again, at least when we talk about disabled cars, because it is therefore six years ago that it has been granted. And although it may well be relatively obvious that the citizen's ability to function has not changed, the need may well have changed. There may have been cars on the market, which are cheaper and which the citizen can settle for instead; there may have been offers in the area of disabled driving, which it is estimated the citizen can settle for; and there may be cases where a citizen's driving needs are not the same as they were six years ago. And you cannot expect the citizen to draw attention to this on his own initiative, which is why the municipalities will go in and look into these matters anyway. So we will not change the number of municipalities that are content with a declaration of faith and law, but we will create a false expectation among a number of disabled citizens who will think that they can settle for a declaration of faith and law, but they cannot do so anyway because the municipality says that it is not obvious that the need and ability to function are unchanged. So that is why the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution, although of course we fully share the intention of the Danish People's Party that the granting and re-granting should be made as flexible and unbureaucratic as possible. That is also why reform work has been set in motion to amend the provisions of the Services Act so that we can make things as simple and as unbureaucratic as possible. But in these cases, at least on disabled cars, where it is quite a lot of money we are talking about, we are still going to experience, even if we had to adopt the motion for a resolution of the Danish People's Party. So what the Left cannot recommend is that the municipalities will not be content with a declaration of faith and law, because it is not as obvious as the proposers may think that a car should continue to be granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301181344	One person has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301181347	I suddenly got a feeling that I was not sitting in the Chamber, but that I was sitting in a court of law, because quite a lot of words came out of the rapporteur's mouth when it came to interpreting the resolution. However, if there are small hairs in the soup that the rapporteur finds out, then we can always find a good solution if there is a majority in favour of it in here. And if it is about the fact that there are some small words that need to be corrected so that the rapporteur can also vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, which applies to the re-allocation of disabled cars, then the Danish People's Party is also willing to do so. My question to the rapporteur is this: does the rapporteur think that a declaration of faith and law is a simplified procedure?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301181434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301181436	I am glad that you feel that you are being placed in a court of law, because that is one of the things I have been dealing with, and then you could just reply in the affirmative and withdraw the motion for a resolution, but I do not expect you to do so. And it's not just about little words and hair in the soup. It is simply that we do not achieve a real change in the state of affairs by adopting the resolution, because the possibility for municipalities to settle for a declaration of faith and law is already available, and I simply do not believe that there are municipalities which are setting in motion a great deal of investigation into cases where it is said that it is obvious that the citizen must continue to have a car with disabilities. Why on earth should the municipality not settle for a declaration of faith and law in those cases where it is obvious? The municipality would do that. So you shouldn't think that this is gonna change anything, because it doesn't want to. That is why I am in favour of the intention, and I am in favour of it, but we are not achieving anything with this resolution, because it will still be the case that we are not merely pers. automatic every six years gets a new disabled car. You only get it if you still need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301181549	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301181551	Yes, and that is precisely what the resolution is about, and I cannot understand why the rapporteur thinks that there is such a difference as to whether it is about section 112 of the Services Act or whether it is about section 114 of the Services Act. For a disabled car is also an aid, but there are just two different paragraphs in relation to this. So I do not fully understand the rapporteur's argument, but I am certainly looking forward to continuing to discuss it here. If nothing else, it may be that the rapporteur, as the Minister said, supports the first part, and then you can always divide up a motion for a resolution or land it in a joint report.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301181630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301181632	Yes, but the difference is, among other things, that there is hardly anyone asking for a blind stick unless they still need it, because what on earth would they do with it? But you can wish for a disabled car, even if you no longer have such a great need for it. Well, I guess everyone needs a car, and most people will think it's nice to have a car, but if your needs are still so great that it justifies getting taxpayers to help you finance the car, that is something else, and that is not necessary. So there is a significant difference between the two provisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301181707	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for further brief comments. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301181718	In the Enhedslisten, we think this is a good proposal. We understand that the reason why the proposal is being tabled today is that a practice has been registered in the municipalities, which means that there are actually citizens who have to go through a long process of re-granting aids, disabled cars, where they obviously see it as superfluous because their situation has not changed. I am convinced that this is the observation that has driven forward the proposal from the Danish People's Party, and I agree that this is undoubtedly the case with a great many citizens. Therefore, I would say that good intentions are always a pleasure when they are deported, but that is not always enough. And I think it is a very good thing that there is a proposal that actually also tackles the issue in concrete terms. It is, as several rapporteurs have already said, a proposal which is of mutual benefit and for the benefit of society, because it is for the benefit of the individual who does not have to go through a long process of processing, which avoids the nervousness and anxiety that may lie in the risk of losing an aid on which one is completely dependent, and then, on the other hand, there is the general social consideration: how stupid it is if we have case-handling staff who have to sit and carry out something which is obviously superfluous. It is the case that in this way there are enough tasks to perform, there are many waiting times that are too long, we have been talking about earlier in the Chamber today. It would then be better for the forces to be used to reduce the processing times in other cases than to spend the working time of the case-handling staff on something that seems obviously superfluous. So, of course, we are prepared, including the comments already made by the authors of the motion, to enter into a discussion on this and, if possible, if a majority can be brought together in an adjustment of the proposal, we will of course be happy to contribute to it, but immediately our statement here is that we support the proposal. We think this is a very good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301181942	One person has asked for a brief comment. It's sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301181947	Well, I just need to explain to sir. Jakob Silverhøj, why I made a little exclamation before. It was not because of anything the rapporteur said, but because I was aware that I forgot to say that I should welcome Mrs Mette Abildgaard's Conservatives and say that Conservatives are in complete agreement with the Left. Unfortunately, I believe that this is only enough for this matter and that it is not such a carte blanche. But I forgot to say that in my own rapporteur's speech before, and I think we should get it written down in the annals so that everyone knows it forever and ever. So it was not because I had something to say directly to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301182022	Does that give rise to a comment?
ParlaMint-DK_20160301182025	I can comfort you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen says I wasn't scared.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301182029	There were no further brief comments, so we move on to the next in the rapporteur's line. This is Mrs. Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301182039	First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for once again addressing a very important issue: the enormous bureaucracy that prevails in the public sector. It is a bureaucracy which is expensive for taxpayers, demotivating for employees, and a nuisance for citizens. The Liberal Alliance fully supports starting to look at how we can debureaucraticise it by means of concrete legislative work, and I am therefore pleased to note that so many of the other parties in the parliament share the view that we must put an end to the heavy and pointless bureaucracy. In particular, I look forward to the forthcoming reform of the adult provisions of the Services Act, which we are currently facing. Here we need to review the adult provisions of the Services Act in order to simplify in favour of everyone. It is precisely a simplification and a debureaucratisation of the public sector that has been one of the main concerns of the Liberal Alliance from the outset. The meaningless paperwork makes no sense, and it removes focus from the core tasks, and that requires resources. That is why it is crucial that we get a reform going. In view of the fact that we are faced with the reform of the adult provisions of the Services Act, I think it would be most appropriate to discuss the simplification of the re-granting of aids and disabled cars in this context. Here we will have the opportunity to look at this specific aspect, but in a wider context, and perhaps we will have to land on this "Scale" clause that the Danish People's Party is putting forward today, but it may also be that there are other and better opportunities in terms of ensuring citizens a quick and simple procedure and reducing the administration of the municipalities. That is why my statement here today is that I fully support the intention of this motion for a resolution. We must reduce unnecessary bureaucracy and administration, and we must make it easier and more accessible to those citizens who need help. I hope that we can all agree to include this important element when we are about to reform the adult provisions of the Services Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301182243	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301182250	In the alternative, we would like to limit administration and bureaucracy in general and, in particular, in relation to the fact that people with disabilities have quick and simple access to aids that can facilitate their everyday lives and enable them to be active citizens of society. Therefore, we are particularly positive about DF's proposal that a Declaration of Faith and Law can help ensure rapid re-allocation of AT. As far as disabled cars are concerned, after today's debate, I have some doubts: should we make this a 'can' clause, or should we make it a'must' clause? Well, as I said, I'm a little in doubt. I think it is a very good intention, and what I really am very pleased about is that the proposal will be included in the negotiations on the Services Act, where it can be discussed really, really well in order to see if this is exactly the solution that needs to be found. I'm glad that DF raises this question, because I think that, no matter what, it helps to focus on using beliefs and promises more. Because it certainly sounds like they're being used too little. And in this way, if they were to be used more, we would certainly be able to save some administration. So if this bill can be adjusted in place, we are also quite positive. We are fairly positive about this, but we really also think a little bit like the Liberal Alliance it is good that it is included in the forthcoming negotiations on the Services Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301182438	One person has asked for a brief comment. This is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301182441	Thank you. And thank the rapporteur for his positive statements. However, I find it somewhat difficult to understand what the rapporteur is in concrete doubt about. Do you have any doubts as to whether you are going to give citizens a case-simplification in relation to these beliefs and laws, simply to provide an easier procedure by making a shell provision instead of a 'can' clause? I think the rapporteur may be aware that, as with the resolution on home training we had before, some municipalities say that they do not have that product on the shelf. So perhaps the rapporteur could spread a little what he is in doubt about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301182528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301182530	Well, that's if it leads exactly where it's supposed to go. Because where you want this to go is the right place. But this is what Jan E. Jørgensen also pointed out, namely the difference between functional ability and needs. So, functional ability may have changed, or hasn't changed, but what about the need? Has it changed? And that is where I find it difficult to see precisely here on a stand-by basis whether the case will still be examined.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301182608	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301182611	However, the motion for a resolution states that the municipal council may today choose to use a declaration of faith and law in re-granting aids or aid for disabled cars if the municipal council considers that the situation of the citizen is essentially unchanged. It is thus the same principle that applies in relation to the "must' provision if the situation of the citizen is unchanged. And this applies to both one's driving needs and one's ability to function. I think that is very clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301182645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301182648	I am not the only one who thought it was not so clear again, for example. If you are granted a car, you will have 6, 12, 18, 24 or 32 years of age simply by renewing a declaration of faith and law. I think that can be discussed. However, I think it is a good thing that DF has put this forward here, so I am actually satisfied with it and would like to play a positive role if we can adjust it in place. And otherwise, I look forward to discussing it in connection with the Service Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301182730	No one else has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301182741	Thank you. I would also like to sign for the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution B-60 on the application of beliefs and laws in the renewal of aids under certain conditions. I just need a more targeted pit to understand that the Danish People's Party's proposal looks as it does and that the Minister warns against using it for all kinds of aids, including cars. In any event, I will not allow myself to ignore the Minister's warning, which I would like to see clarified in the course of the proceedings. That is why it is appropriate to use precisely the situation that we are going to review the adult provisions of the Social Code, where this belongs, and that the Minister has indicated a positive attitude towards including it. There we can clarify what the problem is with cars. I think that is a good thing, and it is running in parallel with a speedy procedure for B60. So I think we can take it seriously and seriously in that work. Then we'll see what it ends up with. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301182858	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301182909	Thank you. Municipalities can now choose to simplify their practice by using beliefs and laws when regranting aids or support for disabled cars, if, as has already been said, conditions are unchanged, both in terms of functional capacity and needs. This allows us to use the information already underlying the decision on the allocation in the first place. The municipalities can take advantage of this opportunity, but as the proposers write, it is not necessarily used to the extent that it would make the most sense. The proposal is aimed at reducing bureaucracy by making it compulsory in all re-allocation cases, with the obligation, of course, that the municipality should obtain the necessary information. Since the proposal may help to reduce the length of proceedings and therefore also the waiting time and insecurity for citizens, we in the SF are generally in favour of the proposal, but I would also like to say that I think it would be an obvious proposal to have included in the negotiations on the revision and simplification of the adult provisions of the Services Act that we are faced with, because then we can try together to improve the legal certainty of citizens and make the procedures, which are often very cumbersome and slow, more flexible. This is an element of it. Then we also have further opportunities to ask questions about some of the points that have emerged in today's debate, both from the Minister and from other rapporteurs. In general, however, we are in favour of the proposal and I would recommend that we get it further in the debate on the adult regulations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301183057	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. Then we turn to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301183107	In the Danish People's Party, we want to make it easier for municipalities and citizens by making it compulsory to apply beliefs and laws. The motion for a resolution provides for citizens to be granted a right to re-grant aids and disabled cars under Section 112 of the Services Act and Section 114 of the Services Act only by means of faith and legislative declarations, provided that the applicant's ability and needs have essentially remained unchanged since the last decision of the Municipal Council and that the applicant makes a declaration of faith and law in this respect. Today, unfortunately, we can hear here too that this is happening too little, and that is another product, one can say that one does not have on the shelf, because often and often is the answer: we do not use it here. That is why we in the Danish People's Party want a simpler and simplified procedure, and we believe that this option is being used far too little. One might then wonder why it does so, because it is a very good way of doing it, both for the citizen and also for the debureaucratisation of the municipality. I would say that it is a bit on the same street as the motion for a resolution we had on suspensive effect. We have heard examples in the past, which the Minister has also heard about, in relation to the blind. They've been blind all their lives. After all, they will not suddenly get their sight back in relation to the blind stick, and the same goes for citizens who have found that they are paralyzed from the stomach down. They don't suddenly get their walking function back. We have also been asked about the hearing aids area, where there are also challenges with regard to the re-granting of hearing aids. That is why we in the Danish People's Party think that this is a very good resolution, because it makes the procedure faster and simple. This is for the benefit of the citizens, and it is also for the benefit of municipal resource consumption in relation to the procedures for dealing with cases. It is also in relation to the long processing times that could be significantly reduced. In addition, citizens are also better placed. They should not go and be insecure or nervous about losing their aid or car as long as their ability to function has not improved and their needs have not changed. I am sure that this motion for a resolution can also entail a number of minor costs in the municipalities because of fewer administrative resources in re-examining matters, and we will of course propose that the small cost remains in the municipalities for increased service to the citizens. I have, of course, asked a number of questions, including to the Minister, about the case of the disabled car, and it is actually the case that in several municipalities it takes over a year. I have then asked why it takes more than a year, and I have received an answer on the eight municipalities from which I have asked and asked for a statement of reasons. Then I will just read out some of the answers: there has been an accumulation of car support cases because the employee who carried out the task of dealing with these cases has been on sick leave for a longer period. There are now two employees on the task, and a time and action plan has been drawn up to reduce the processing time. Currently, the average processing time is 15 months. It is then in one municipality that there has been a sick employee. This proposal will also make it simpler for a case officer to use a simplified procedure. The same is true in the next reply: there has been a build-up of car support cases, which the municipality has been working with in order to reduce. The municipality has a clear expectation that the future processing time from 2016 will be brought down to a level of the average processing time for all municipalities. In 2014, the municipality had some car support cases where the official doctor and police had to be asked before a decision could be taken. It is then a matter in which the needs of the citizen are not the same. But it's just to tell you that this long process, where the citizen is standing either without a disabled car or an aid, can be remedied with this very good motion for a resolution. But I will then also sign for the positive statements we have received. I have also heard that you would like to take it further in the adult regulations. The fact is that it is not a new wish from the Danish People's Party. We also had this as a proposal when we last had to review the adult provisions of the Services Act at the end of the previous government, but the proposal was then withdrawn by the then minister. We also got some parts in relation to this. But at least I look forward to future work, including in committee. I think this is incredibly important, and I am certainly glad that Enhedslisten supports both. But I have also learned in here as a politician that it is better to get little than nothing at all, so we are always willing to find solutions to how we move forward. We are happy to take it forward, and perhaps we will be able to come up with a joint report, because then we will certainly be sure that we will have it included in the regulations, even if the proposal this time falls to the ground. Then we have a report that we can keep the Minister up to. So perhaps we can agree on that in committee. Thank you for today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301183745	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160301183802	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 2 March 2016, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
