ParlaMint-DK_20161013100009	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Business and Growth (Troel Lund Poulsen): Bill no. L 39 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Financial Activities, the Law on Investment Funds, etc., the Law on Securities Trading, etc.) and various other laws. Bill No. L 41 (Proposal for a law on prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 11 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a public loan guarantee for the production of advanced bio-aetanol in Denmark). Zenia Stamp (RV) and others: Question No. F 5 (Will the Minister explain the expected consequences of Denmark's withdrawal from the EU's common police cooperation, Europol?). With the agreement of the authors of the motion for a resolution, I propose that Amendment No B 11 be referred directly to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed. The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20161013100118	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013100143	Maria Reumert Gjerding has applied for leave from 26 October 2016, according to section 41 of the Rules of Procedure. Point 3 (a) while Magni Arge applied for leave from 18 October to 31 December 2016, according to Paragraph 41 (3) (a) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (c). If no objection is raised, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as applied for and that substitutes should be called as temporary members. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013100238	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Enhedslisten in Nordsjælland district, Helle Osther Friedrichsen, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 26 October 2016 on the occasion of Maria Reumert Gjerding's leave. I have also received the recommendation that the fifth deputy of Tjóðveldi in the Faroe Islands, Tórbjørn Jacobsen, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 18 October until 31 December 2016 on the occasion of leave from Magni Arge, who has been called to replace Høgni Hoydal. It should be noted that the second, third and fourth alternates have indicated that they do not wish to take up such leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013100334	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 107 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013100404	I must point out that the Minister for Foreign Affairs cannot be here today, and that is why the Minister for Tax is acting Minister. No amendments have been tabled and the debate has been opened. Does anyone wish to speak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013100445	That is, of course, just an important point. So I assumed somebody was gonna say something. But next week the European Union will have to decide on a temporary trade agreement, a temporary start to an economic and trade agreement with Canada, which is also called CETA. As far as is apparent, the Danish Government will vote in favour of this interim start-up. In order to prevent this, we have taken the extraordinary step of bringing the issue up in this Chamber. Our proposal is to and ours in this context means the Enhedslisten and the Alternativet's that in a vote shortly, the Danish Parliament shall require the government to vote against the European Commission's proposal for the provisional application of the agreement. It happens for two reasons. Firstly, because it is still unclear at the present time which elements will be put into effect temporarily, and that is a relatively central issue. The content of CETA can be divided into three main elements: a part that has already been handed over as EU competence and where national parliaments are completely outside influence; a part which is mixed competence and which also needs to be approved by national parliaments; and, finally, a part which is purely national competence and which therefore has to be decided only in individual countries. If the temporary entry into force only covers the part that is already the exclusive competence of the European Union, then it could be understood, but we have no guarantee of that. As the Foreign Minister himself writes in a reply to question 8, and I quote: "As I explained at the meeting of the European Committee of the Regions on 7 October 2016, it is not definitively decided which parts of CETA will be put into temporary application. And that's an answer that's come a few days ago. Apparently, the Treaties are intended to enter into force in a number of areas where shared powers exist and where approval by national parliaments should otherwise be a prerequisite. This is true, for example. Chapter 22 on trade and sustainable development, Chapter 23 on trade and the labour market, and Chapter 24 on trade and the environment. Therefore, I would also like to ask the Minister to confirm here from Parliament's platform that if our proposal should be voted down against common sense, of course, this will mean that this agreement will enter into force in a number of areas which otherwise normally require national parliamentary approval. The second reason why we are taking this step is that we are going to protest against the whole way in which the government has dealt with this matter. In Denmark we have handed over a lot of legislative power, legislative competence, from the Danish Parliament to the European Union. To compensate for this, we have made an agreement that, prior to negotiations and votes of greater scope for Denmark, the government is seeking a mandate in the Parliamentary Committee on Europe, thus ensuring a kind of parliamentary control over development. However, in this case of CETA, which started back in 2009, the government has never at any time applied to the Parliamentary European Committee for a negotiating mandate. Is it, then, because CETA is not of greater scope than the fact that it does not really matter whether or not CETA is adopted? It's completely ridiculous. This is an agreement of enormous importance, and I would also like to ask the Minister to confirm this, namely that it is an agreement with an enormous significance which the government is very keen to see finally adopted when the time comes. In conclusion, this case raises some very important questions in terms of parliamentary control of EU policy in Denmark. If we just let it go through, what are the consequences for the future? Then far-reaching agreements with enormous implications for employees' rights, for the environment and for food safety can be negotiated without any parliamentary mandate ever being given. When the result is available, it will only be set in motion on a temporary basis without parliamentary approval, and then we will be able to decide a long time later in the Folketing whether we will approve an already functioning agreement or whether we will at that time abandon all the problems that it will then give in that situation. In our view, such a development is not acceptable. We know that there are several parties that have clearly explained this. We also know that rapporteurs from parties, who I believe will be voting in favour of today, have clearly said that this was not an acceptable solution, and we therefore look forward to the debate and look forward to an explanation of why there might be a majority in order to put this agreement into effect temporarily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013101009	Thank you. A number of rapporteurs have joined us. It would be a good thing if everyone who wants to get on the platform would join us. First, it's sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013101034	Thank you for the floor, President. Today we are debating a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative to reject the provisional application of the trade agreement between the European Union and Canada. We therefore welcome the debate and I would like to stress that it is always important that we discuss both the advantages and disadvantages of agreements with other states. This debate is an opportunity for that. Let me start by emphasising that in the Social Democratic Party we clearly believe that it is in Denmark's interest that we can trade freely and easily with other countries, and we are also in favour of a trade agreement with Canada. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, a free trade agreement will make it easier and cheaper for European competitive companies to increase exports across the Atlantic. This means more jobs in Europe and in Denmark of high quality and good pay for the benefit of citizens. We feed on our exports. In 2015, Denmark's exports of goods and services amounted to approx. 7.6 billion kr. to Canada. It can improve and we see an even greater potential by trading with a country such as Canada, which on so many crucial points is similar to Europe. Secondly, more trade creates growth and prosperity. It contributes decisively to the financing of our welfare societies. As a small country and a small economy, Denmark has always benefited from being open to the outside world and trading with other countries. When competition tightens up, we adapt and become more skilled. Thirdly, we are pleased, and indeed confident, that the CETA chapter on trade and the labour market recognises the value of a coherent policy that can create decent work, a high level of worker protection combined with effective enforcement. The EU and Canada also recognise the importance of social dialogue and undertake to promote such dialogue. In the agreement, the EU and Canada recognise each other's right to lay down labour market rules. Laws and practices in the labour market shall ensure the protection of fundamental principles and rights at work, including the right to organise and to hold collective bargaining, the abolition of all forms of forced labour, the effective abolition of child labour and the elimination of discrimination in employment and employment. Similarly, labour law must comply with the 2008 ILO Declaration on Social Justice with a view to fair globalisation. Safety and health at work, minimum conditions of employment for employees, non-discrimination as regards working conditions, including for migrant workers. Finally, the EU and Canada recognise that it is inappropriate to promote trade or investment through a reduction or relaxation of protection levels in their legislation and labour market rules. Fourthly, we do not see that the agreement opens up a barn door for either privatisations or outbiddings. Both the EU and Canada have made a large number of reservations in this regard. This applies to education, health care, social services, water recovery, purification and distribution, and for this the European Commission has announced that the CETA Agreement fully protects public services. EU Member States will be able to operate public monopolies if they so wish, and the CETA agreement will not force or encourage governments to privatise or deregulate public services. The Member States will therefore continue to be able to decide which services they will maintain as universal and public and provide support to them if they so wish. The Commission also stresses that CETA will not prevent a government from redeploying an earlier decision to privatise different sectors. Finally, we also see a clear improvement in the provisions on investment protection compared to what has been the subject of the discussion on a trade agreement with the United States. Transparency of the process, appointed judges and appeal options are clear improvements. Firstly, as regards the substance of the resolution, it is quite common practice for mixed agreements to be provisionally applied during the ratification process. Secondly, one of the more discussed elements of the agreement, namely the investment protection element, is exempt from temporary application. Thirdly, the provisional application cannot take place until it has been approved by the elected representatives of Europe in this House, thereby guaranteeing democratic legitimacy. All in all, we believe that both Canada and the European Union will benefit from acting more easily and freer with each other. We believe that it can create better opportunities to create jobs and prosperity, and that does not mean that we do not understand those who are concerned. We do, but we believe that this agreement takes account of the main challenges, and that is why we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013101504	Thank you. And there are a few brief comments. There are a number of rapporteurs at all, so we have turned off the voting warning [A] so far. First, it's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013101515	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the presentation of his party's position on the agreement itself. What is important to discuss today is, after all, the temporary entry into force of what lies within the competence of the European Union, that is. the purely EU competence and the shared competence. I know, at least after reading all the answers and having been to all the meetings with the Minister, that it is still not clear to me exactly what it is that lies under the various powers. That is why I am very concerned that such temporary entry into force could become a very messy affair. So I would really like to hear how the rapporteur feels about those companies that would then perhaps start acting after this provisional entry into force if it were actually to go and be rejected in the ratification process; there is a real risk of that happening when the support of the various EU countries is taken into account. Is it not too dangerous to allow such a large agreement, which is so weakened in relation to the support of parliaments, to enter into force temporarily?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013101622	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013101623	So, I do not know whether I agree with the rapporteur that this is dangerous, but I know that one of the things that Denmark has emphasised when it has also applied to be able to apply the agreement on a temporary basis, among other things. is about our concern for the maritime industry, which will benefit greatly from being able to apply a temporary agreement. Clearly, if that is the case, the agreement is rejected in the ratification process, then the agreement falls, and then you have to take stock of it. Nevertheless, I am in favour of what kind of debate is going on throughout the Western world, about free trade and globalisation, as we see everywhere. I am also in favour of much of the scepticism that has been expressed, and I have followed the debate on TTEP very closely. I would like to emphasise that I do not see the possible free trade agreement with the United States as an agreement that is one of the same as the agreement that has been concluded with Canada, and at least I think that the debate that has been held in civil society has been marked by that. But it is clear that if it is that the national parliaments end up bringing this agreement down, then you have to take stock of that situation. I believe basically, and I also explained this, that all in all this will benefit the Danish companies that export, and all in all I believe that we have received some guarantees in the agreement that the levels of protection will not be reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013101736	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013101738	Thank you. So that is to say, there is complete clarity on the part of the rapporteur about what is coming into force at the different levels of competence. Or does the rapporteur share my continued confusion about exactly what competences apply in which parts of this agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013101754	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013101756	In other words, I have attended the same meetings and read the same answers to questions as the alternative rapporteur, but I think it can be concluded that in this context I do not have the same concern as the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013101810	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013101813	Thank you. The Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, went a lot into the content, and we will return to that discussion next year when it is presented in the Danish Parliament. That is not the reason for today's debate. It is like the process that has been in connection with it. However, the Socialist rapporteur was at least able to see that the Social Democrats believe that this is a very important agreement, an agreement of very great importance. That is why I would like to ask the Socialist rapporteur: what is the position of the Social Democrats that no mandate has been given in the Committee on European Affairs? Is this a practice which the Social Democrats think is good, namely that the then government, including the Left, just presented it and that the current government has just presented it as a matter of orientation without seeking a negotiating mandate for these negotiations? The second point I would like to hear is: what is actually the reason why the Socialist rapporteur believes that mixed agreements, which therefore require the approval of national parliaments, can be put into effect temporarily? Is that a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013101925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013101926	To the first question, I think I am generally of the view that as often as possible a mandate should be sought from the Committee on European Affairs. I wasn't in the Folketing back in 2009, and I didn't do it either in 2011. However, I also know that, in relation to a number of the various free trade agreements which the European Union has concluded, it has been common practice that no mandate has been sought because they have not been very far-reaching. What has then happened in the negotiation process in relation to CETA is that it has grasped why it has now been sent for ratification by the Member States. I don't know if that's enough of an answer to Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard's question, but that is my position on it. With regard to the second point, whether I think it is right for mixed agreements to be applied provisionally in advance, I would say that this has also been common practice in various trade agreements, and it also makes me feel reasonably confident that my Socialist colleagues in the European Parliament will have to approve it before the agreements can be provisionally applied. That is why I also believe that democratic legitimacy is intact.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013102036	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013102038	is a mixed agreement in which the European Union does not have exclusive competence, it should of course be the national parliaments that are involved and approve it, and not just some people who have been elected in the European Parliament. In other words, for Denmark 13 out of 751 Members are taking a position on that matter, since when it is a mixed agreement it is also a national competence. So that's where we just disagree. But to my second question I do not really think I received an answer from Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen: Seems Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen that it is a problem that the government has not sought a mandate? When compared to other agreements, Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen then mention another agreement that is as comprehensive as this one with Canada and where no mandate has been sought?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013102128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013102129	I think I answered the first part of the question. And on the second part of the question I can say: No, I cannot mention that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013102135	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013102138	Thank you. What led me to speak was the rapporteur's talk about free trade. Because when I first heard the rapporteur's speech, it was a bit like being put back in the time when free trade was just a plus word, including for the Socialists, and always being told that any free trade agreement would create jobs and prosperity for everyone. Since then, in the ten years that have passed, we have found that this is not the case and that free trade agreements very often have some winners and some losers. And the losers are very often ordinary employees and democratic institutions. Then I am very pleased that the rapporteur said in his reply: well, I am in on the discussion and criticism that is going on, including of TTIP and other things, but there has to be a connection. It is not enough to pay attention or talk about these things at public meetings. It must also have an impact on the policy that is being pursued in here, which is why I would really just like to ask the rapporteur: is the rapporteur quite confident about this agreement? Is the rapporteur confident that it will not affect employees' and employees' rights that we will not see this kind of action against Denmark from large companies which will force us to pursue a policy which is not a majority in this House?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013102251	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013102252	I really thought I was very clear in my rapporteur's speech. And I'm also not sure if Mr. Pelle Dragsted was probably listening, or at least he stopped when free trade was said, because what I made the most of in my rapporteur's speech was talking about all the sensible elements of the agreement, which is about the protection of workers' rights. In that light, yes. Can I stand here and give guarantees that there can never be disputes or people caught? No, I cannot give any guarantees for that, but I can say that when I have consulted the Danish trade union movement, i.e. the LO, the Danish Metal and others, they say that this is a trade agreement, which is probably one of the most comprehensive in the area of worker protection, compared to what has been seen in the past. And I feel safe in that thought. It is also the case that we in the Social Democratic Party are not in favour of the Social Democrats, and I am not blindly convinced that free trade can create all kinds of miracles. But do I believe that trade between states can be made as easy and as cheap as possible, so that it benefits most people? Yeah, I think I can do that. We have seen this with a number of different states, even when we make trade agreements with Asian countries. And this is, I must stress once again, a trade agreement with Canada. In other words, Canada is a country which, in many ways, has many of the same standards that we have, which are very similar to the European countries and which have the same high level of protection as we otherwise appreciate in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013102425	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013102426	In almost all the trade agreements I have dealt with over time, there have been chapters dealing with the fact that, of course, employees' rights should also be taken into account. It is just very often the case that they are matched out of the much more, if I may say so, robust sections dealing with so-called distortion effects and barriers to trade, and therefore do not have that effect, even though it looks great on paper. However, I would just like to ask whether, regardless of what you think about this, we can have a slightly clearer answer: will the Socialists in future accept that this kind of agreement is being negotiated without a clear mandate being given by the European Committee of the Regions?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013102511	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013102512	Well, as I also said in my reply before to Mr. Søren Søndergaard: Our starting point is that for all major decisions of far-reaching scope, mandate must be given to the European Committee. If we in Parliament have chosen to have the structure that we have, in which we in the Parliamentary Assembly here leave competence to the Committee on European Affairs, then it must also be respected by the government in office at all times. At least that is my position.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013102534	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013102546	When the rapporteur says that a mandate for the negotiations should be given as often as possible, what does that mean? Is it a little dependent on what kind of government sits? After all, we agree that this is a major agreement and that it is a comprehensive agreement and that there are things in this agreement that could well be better for both workers, consumers and the environment, but that some initiatives have also been taken. But what does it mean that the mandate should be given as often as possible? I don't understand. You can't sell a piece of rubber band to a bourgeois government, that's no good.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013102629	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013102630	Well, it works in this way in the Committee on European Affairs that sometimes some cases are presented for information, and sometimes a government is asked for a mandate to do so, and it is therefore, whether you like it or not, the government's prerogative to assess it. As a parliamentarian, as rapporteur for Europe and as a member of the Committee on European Affairs, I think it would be better for a government in office to secure and ask for a mandate from the Folketing at all times than for it not to be asked for. That's how it's supposed to be understood.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013102658	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013102700	In other words, in this case, we agree that we should demand from the government that a negotiating mandate be given for which they then ask for support before they go on. I find that reassuring. The other thing I think is far too random. Incidentally, I also think that that is all, all too random to say: well, it is probably a good thing that my Socialist friends in the European Parliament take a position on this. I guess it's not, if it's Danish right to decide on parts of this deal. Then I guess we will have to make a negotiating proposal, and then we will not have to be arbitrary on such a question. However, I hope we agree that we should demand from the government that there should be a negotiating mandate before they proceed with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013102743	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013102745	In other words, it is not only my Socialist friends in the European Parliament who have to decide on the provisional application; so must Mr Delors. Christian Juhl's friends in the European Parliament, he probably has some of them. After all, we have taken a position on what is at stake. We have taken a position on the agreement in its entirety and we have taken a position on the question of whether we agree or disagree with a provisional application and whether we think it follows the rules of democracy. We have considered that it follows the rules of democracy when the European Parliament has to take a position on it before parts of the agreement can be provisionally applied. Then there are other parts of the agreement that cannot be provisionally applied, and these are, in particular, those parts of the agreement that have been the most discussed and most controversial. And it is from the overall background that we have concluded today that we reject the motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013102836	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013102839	Thank you. The rapporteur obviously does not think that there are any problems in this agreement. All these concerns that education, welfare benefits, labour rights, etc. may be affected, we can pack up. Is the rapporteur aware that Sweden and Finland have made reservations about the measures to liberalise services, for example? in the area of education and health care? Is the rapporteur aware of this? What are the concerns of Sweden and Finland? Has the rapporteur examined this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013102920	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013102921	Well, I have to say again that it doesn't sound like sir. Finn Sørensen has heard the whole of my rapporteur's speech, because there was really nothing to indicate that I did not take these concerns seriously. On the contrary, I said that it is always important to have a thorough discussion and that I also understand those who have concerns. Yes, I am aware that Sweden and Finland have taken a supplementary reservation. Denmark and Finland have, as it were. So, Denmark has been involved in taking a supplementary reservation in relation to privately funded social services. I think it is excellent that we have done so. Moreover, there is no indication that the levels of protection have been challenged in relation to what is in force.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013103003	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013103005	Thank you. It seems a little contradictory. A reservation is made, but it does not mean that there is any cause for concern. In other words, can the rapporteur not explain the context of this? Is it the Swedes and the Finns who are a little stupid and haven't really understood it or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013103025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013103026	Well, I don't understand why, sir. Finn Sørensen keeps saying that I have claimed that there is no reason to worry. In other words, I always think that there is a need to pay attention to an agreement text and everything it contains, and that there is always reason to pay more attention when several states enter into agreements with each other. As I also said in reply to Mr. Pelle Dragsted: I'm not giving guarantees that there can't be parts that get stuck. Our support for the agreement is this agreement, which should not be confused with TTIP, which is not yet finished, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013103105	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013103117	Thank you, Madam President. Unlike the previous rapporteur, I do not really want to talk so much about CETA as an agreement, because basically we will have that debate at a later stage here in the Danish Parliament, in January, I can understand, and that is why I think that what it is really about is the proposal put forward by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative on temporary application. It is well known that the Danish People's Party's starting point in relation to free trade agreements is positive. In other words, we think it is a good idea to be able to trade with each other without tariff barriers. This also applies to CETA. We are therefore convinced that it is an agreement that will benefit Denmark. But that's not what this is about. This is about whether an agreement should be put into effect at a time when the Member States have not completed, or even started the ratification process of the agreement in question. And we find this very difficult to accept in the Danish People's Party. It should of course be the case that the European Union accepts, tolerates and backs up that the prerogatives of the nation states, their ability to ratify agreements that are shared competence, are maintained. And that is not what we are doing in this situation, when an agreement is being put into effect at a time when the nation states have not had the opportunity to ratify it. That is why we are sticking to the principle. We insist that when the Member States have to ratify, they have to ratify, and then an agreement cannot be put into effect, even parts of an agreement. Furthermore, I agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur that it is very strange that the government has managed to cook an agreement of 1,500 pages down to 1 page on where the competences lie. It's actually, I think, impressive that you've managed it. So we in the Danish People's Party support the proposal put forward by Enhedslisten and the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013103336	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013103339	I would like to sign for that statement by the Danish People's Party, because I understand that the Danish People's Party is very much in favour of free trade. Could the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party put a few more words on the problem arising from the fact that no mandate has been given in the Committee on European Affairs? Well, now we hear strange arguments that you didn't really know that this agreement would have any meaning. But is it the view of the Danish People's Party that if it really is true and it was not believed to have any significance, but first discovered it during the course of the negotiations, then of course one should have arrived at the moment when one discovered that this is an important agreement and asked for a mandate from the European Committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013103428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013103430	I have to say that I find it rather odd that no mandate has been obtained in this matter. After all, at the last European Committee meeting we had a review of when a mandate had been requested and when no mandate had been requested. I would say that now I do not have the main competence in the legal field, that is to say in the field of trade cooperation, but I found it very difficult to understand, I have to say when exactly a distinction had been made, that a mandate had to be given and when a distinction had been made, that no mandate had to be given. But in this particular case I am surprised, and I am also surprised, that at a later stage we have not come back to committee and said: we need a mandate. Because it is changing governments that have really been involved, so it is changing governments that are responsible for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013103515	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013103522	Thank you. I should just like to ask the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party whether it has been made quite clear that if temporary use is not used then CETA will not be used either. In the other agreements that we have signed, it is a condition that provisional application is made, because the parliaments of several countries therefore take a very long time to ratify an agreement. It could take up to 3-4 years. So, if everyone got on this high horse, which I might understand in principle that you want to get on, and if everyone did like the Danish People's Party, CETA didn't turn into anything. This may also be why the new friends from the Enhedslisten praise the Danish People's Party to the clouds.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013103615	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013103616	Now, of course, we must always be a little careful about whom we receive praise from, but I would say that I have no problem with receiving praise from Mr. Søren Søndergaard in this case. I have read the same things, but I would also say that there is something that is not connected, and what is not connected is that you spend eight years or, in fact, several years making an agreement that you then reach the end of. If so, should the decision be made to throw the very same agreement into the trash because it took a little longer for the agreement to be ratified? I think that's bad grocery business. I have to say. I understand that people are threatening something, but it is not always that they carry out those threats.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013103707	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013103709	I have a great deal of respect for sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth's snuff. You can use it for a lot of things, and there's probably some point in that. Finally, let us say that we are waiting for all the countries to ratify the agreement, but that will certainly mean that three, four or perhaps five years will pass before the agreement can enter into force. And since it is estimated that Danish exports will grow by 2.2 billion. kr. In other words, it is an export loss of around 9 billion per year. kr., an export to which the Danish People's Party is willing to wave goodbye because you take this position of principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013103749	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013103751	I think we are taking a position of principle. After all, we take the fundamental view that things must be in order, that the ratification process must be respected, and then, I think, we can appeal to the countries to speed up their efforts. We are doing this ourselves, I understand, since we will have to ratify the agreement in January. Perhaps we could also appeal to other countries to have that process sorted out in the foreseeable future. After all, most countries have an interest in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013103822	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013103841	There's a ghost going through Europe. There's a ghost going through North America. There's a ghost going through large parts of the Western world. It is the ghost of populism, it is the ghost of protectionism. We see it in the west with a type like Donald Trump, and we see it in the east with a type like Vladimir Putin. And as our Prime Minister said in the opening speech: if we build walls around ourselves to keep others out, we will lock ourselves up and we will not get richer. It is possible that not everyone is aware of it or wants to be, but the debate we have here today on CETA is therefore part of the same protectionist ghost, it is part of the same movement. Historically, we know that free trade is good. Free trade creates growth, free trade creates jobs, free trade helps to combat poverty, and yes, free trade also helps to bring peace to the world. We are not talking about complete free trade; we are talking about regulated free trade between legal societies, which have rules on environmental protection, workers' rights, etc. But we are talking about free trade, and free trade brings growth. I agree that, for example, in the demonstration of the nice young people we met on the stairs this morning, who hailed the agreement and praised us for entering into it and applauded and said thank you and so on. And threw confetti over us in jubilation that we now take this stand was mixed up with some irony. You have to be careful about that, because there could be less rapid members of parliament who took what they said at face value. But I think there was a little irony involved and that they really meant the opposite of what they were saying. I agree that those who stood on the stairs this morning are probably genuinely concerned and do not see themselves as part of some protectionist movement. So for the sake of them, I would like to say that there is no reason to be concerned. We are talking about two highly civilised societies, namely the countries of the European Union and Canada, and there is a clear common understanding between Canada and the EU countries that CETA will not lead to any deterioration in food safety, health, the environment or labour rights, because in future the European Union will retain the right to determine our own level of protection just as it has been in the past. Changes in the level of protection of the European Union require the same legislative procedure as is known today, and an international agreement with Canada cannot change that. It is clear that in the EU and Canada there are different approaches to a number of issues. What is the reason, of course, is one can only guess, but the EU's red lines are fixed, and CETA will not change, for example, the EU's rules on the use of GMOs, in food, or, for that matter, the use of hormones in meat production. We look at the two issues differently. I don't know if it's gonna be like that. Canada may change its point of view; it may be that we do, but we look differently in those areas and that does not change CETA. The precautionary principle of the European Union is also in place. But then we have to look at those areas where there are common standards and comparable levels of protection, but where the rules are slightly different. Here there is the possibility of removing technical barriers to trade, removing trade barriers without affecting the level of protection. This will benefit both companies and consumers. So it is only the unnecessary regulation and the more bureaucratic barriers that we need to overcome. We must not put an end to the regulation based on real differences in the level of protection. CETA is the result of a long and tough negotiation process between EU Member States and Canada. It is an agreement aimed at increasing market access between the two markets, removing or lowering tariff barriers for the benefit of trade and, above all, harmonising approval systems in a number of areas. I know that the Enhedslisten looks at these issues, not least the issue of free trade, in a different way than we do. It is good that we are two different parties, a party rooted in communism and another party rooted in liberalism. That's the way it is, and I have full respect for that. But sometimes, when you hear the thunder from the left, it is as if Armageddon is waiting just around the corner, and the environment and workers' rights and democracy, and what I know will go the whistle if we enter into a trade agreement. One might then wonder, when we have entered into similar agreements with Vietnam, with South Korea, with Colombia, that we have not met the criticism, in spite of the fact that these are commercial cultures, about working cultures which are considerably further away from those we have and those of the Canadians. I think that's worth thinking about. Because there is no indication that this trade agreement will have the major negative consequences that the proposers point to. On the contrary, this is a world-class free trade agreement. CETA will set the standard for an entirely new generation of free trade agreements, which also reduce economic growth and sustainability. At the same time, the agreement will also bring great benefits to Denmark: we will be able to look forward to an extra export of goods and services of up to 2.2 billion. kr. annual. So, in other words, there are quite a lot of good arguments for concluding free trade agreements such as CETA. It is both an economic but indeed a political investment to get closer to our friends around the world. Then there is the purely procedural argument on which you hang your hat. I might see that somewhere in theory there may be something in it. In other words, can we really approve an agreement which has not yet been finalised in all the Member States? However, it is the case, and has been the case for many years, that in practice the temporary application of a free trade agreement is allowed until it has been finalised. Why do you do that? This can be explained by the fact that, unfortunately, for some Member States, this will take a very long time to complete an agreement. For example, it took four years from the signing of the agreement between the EU and South Korea until it had been finalised in all EU Member States. Then it is also worth bearing in mind that the provisional application takes place only in those areas in which the European Union has competence, that is to say, either exclusive or shared competence. And in the areas of shared competence, the Council of Ministers, with which the Danish Government is involved, must also be involved. It is a political choice. So, in other words, a full and full trade agreement will not be opened until ratification is in place in all the Member States. And then there is the democratic element in the European Parliament, where we have virtually all representatives. So when the government is going to celebrate that we are writing this during October 18th, I personally intend to participate in the celebration as well. I want to go to a restaurant on October 18th, and I want to have dinner with my family, and it's gonna be a really, really good restaurant. I'm not gonna tell you what kind of restaurant this is gonna be, because it's gonna be a secret to my wife, Jane, who happens to be 50 years old the same day.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013104700	Then there are some brief comments. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013104705	Thank you. That was quite a speech. I understand that the walls we are building are only about goods, but obviously not about temporary border controls to keep people outside the walls. I thought that was what the Prime Minister actually referred to in his speech, but I understand that it wasn't. Now the rapporteur said a little condescendingly that you hung your hat on something about the issue of competences and what could enter into force, but does the rapporteur not think it is quite crucial that we know in legal terms what the advantages are that can come into force? Does the rapporteur not think that it is necessary for us to know what are the parts that can and cannot enter into force in these small 1 600 pages of this agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013104752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013104754	Of course, walls are about much more than goods. After all, the EU's walls are about goods, about services, about financial services and about labour. So, no, of course, walls are not just a matter of exporting goods. That's not what I meant, and that's not what the Prime Minister meant either. But that's what this is about. And it may be a little surprising that parties that would very much like Europe, for example, to be wide open to people are so sceptical about goods coming from Canada. Well, that might surprise you. I certainly didn't mean to patronize you, so if mr. Rasmus Nordqvist has seen some of what I have said as condescending, it was not conscious. I would very much like to regret that. The questions we may have on specific areas, on what is within exclusive competence and what is within the shared competence, I just think we should ask, and then we have to answer them as best we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013104847	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013104849	Well, isn't that the whole point? We cannot get an answer to what lies in EU competence, shared competence and national competence, because we do not know. Is that not the whole point when you read through the answers from the Minister that we have no overview of what lies in the three different levels of competence?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013104909	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013104911	I am not in the same way confused about what lies in one and the other and the third, but I can at least see that there is a very broad majority in this Chamber. So with regard to this point of saying that we are now adopting something and we are in doubt and so on, I would say that I do not believe that any of the doubts will in any way cause that majority to waver. That is why it may well be a bit of an attempt to stretch a process, what is called a filibuster in American politics, because there is a clear majority in favour of the conclusion of CETA both in the Danish Parliament and in the other European Member States.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013104949	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013104952	Thank you to the rapporteur. I therefore agree that we must be very careful not to smoke into a protectionist wave, and there have been some trends in the Danish criticism of this. I also agree that one cannot only build one's policy on fear or fear. But I have something quite specific that I would like to ask, and that is: could the rapporteur not give a reason for the need for investor protection, which is, after all, an essential part of this agreement, whether there is a major reason why so many are against it, that is, this ICS system that has come in, how large companies will be able to complain to governments if they are dissatisfied with legislation implemented by governments? In the view of the Left, is this not a democratic problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013105044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013105046	First of all, I would like to express my thanks for the remarks on protectionism and the fact that we must not be guided by fear. I am very, very much in agreement with Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen i. As far as investor protection is concerned, it is basically about the fact that if a Member State adopts rules that are illegal under the agreement that has been concluded, and that affects some companies, then those companies should not be left in some legal vacuum where they have no chance of verifying whether or not the legal act made by a Member State is in conformity with the agreement. In other words, these are principles of the rule of law, which include both companies and citizens. And the fact that you then create a common system, i.e. an arbitration-like thing like ICS, there is nothing unusual in it, and I also find it difficult to see what the alternative should be. Then Danish companies would have to have a Canadian court as the court of jurisdiction and would have to bring a case before a Canadian court against the Canadian government. I therefore find it more reassuring that such a case should be decided in a place where both parties have something to say. And judges judge according to law, and I'm not in any way worried about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013105200	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013105202	Yes, but the problem is that it limits the scope for legislation here in Denmark. This means that if you sit in the Ministry of Finance and plan some legislation, you have to take into account the fact that you can get a large compensation case from some large companies, without really having the opportunity to go in and influence the process that lies in it. Is that not a democratic problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013105234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013105235	This could be said of all international agreements. When Denmark accedes to a convention, such as the European Convention on Human Rights, it limits the scope for legislation in this Chamber, that is the case. In other words, we must, of course, abide by the agreements we enter into, that is clear. If we had to decide in here to adopt a law which meant that all goods that had a red maple leaf on the front page would have to be covered by 500 per cent. I think it would be fair to have a place where it can be clarified that this is just a technical barrier to trade and that it is contrary to the CETA agreement. In relation to the other agreements that have been concluded, Denmark has not lost a single case because, of course, we in Denmark comply with the agreements we make, and therefore there is no risk that we will be convicted in a court of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013105328	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013105330	The rapporteur said that it would cost a very, very large amount. There was a time when we were talking about fantasy billions, tulliards, and I don't know what. All of a sudden, we have to apply an agreement on a temporary basis before it is finally ratified in order to make money. The rapporteur also guaranteed that this would not be a problem for the environment, climate, health and labour rights. How can the rapporteur guarantee this in a situation where we do not know the shared agreement, have not allocated the competences and where we do not know how it will work? I would also like to remind the rapporteur that in 2011 I returned from Colombia and looked forward to having to take a position on the agreement here in the Danish Parliament. But were we allowed to vote on it? No, we didn't. And 400 000 small farmers in Colombia have had some huge problems because it was thought that it was modern to make an agreement between the European Union and Colombia, which has caused problems to such an extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013105446	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013105447	We're getting around a lot. I understand that the figure I mentioned is huge. I mentioned a figure called 2.2 billion. kr. That is indeed a large number. And yes, it's about making money. There are some people who need to make money, so Enhedslisten can use them. So it may be very sensible for there to be that possibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013105512	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013105514	There wasn't much answers to get in this round. I would really like to say to the rapporteur that when he is not confused about how the shared competence should actually be distributed, he is probably the only one in this Chamber who can say so clearly that he has it under control. I might almost be tempted to ask: could we not have a brief statement on how the shared competence is distributed? That is the whole question. And does it really matter that we have some rules in the Danish Parliament and in Denmark that the competence that is Danish we take a position on here or at least in the European Committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013105603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013105604	No, there is not much answer, but it may be because it was not so much a question and that we got far, to Colombia and so on. But perhaps one question could only be asked and then put it clearly with a question mark at the end, and then I will answer it to the best of my ability. In those areas where the European Union has exclusive competence, there are no problems. Then there are those areas where Denmark has exclusive competence, and there are no problems either. Then there are those areas where there is a shared competence, and the Council of Ministers must also be involved. So there is a difference between what we can decide, what we can decide together and what the European Union can decide alone. I simply do not share the concern of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013105652	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013105655	Thank you. I mean, if I were one of the Members of this House who had not dealt with this matter, I would probably wonder a little. So, on the one hand, we have a rapporteur who takes his wife's birthday hostage to celebrate this agreement, forcing his innocent children to sit, probably with Canadian flags, and what do I know to celebrate this agreement, because it is so big and so significant. On the other hand, no mandate has been given for the negotiations in the Committee on European Affairs. What does that mean? How, however, does the great celebration and celebrations of 18 October relate to the fact that the government did not want to have a mandate in the European Committee? Can we not get an explanation for this from the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013105744	Now it's supposed to be a secret to the lady at home. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013105749	At least the name of the restaurant. And I think I can promise you, too. Søren Søndergaard, that we will not go so far in the celebration that we want an EU flag on the table. The festivity won't go that far. We'll settle for good old knapsacks. With regard to the mandate of the Committee on European Affairs, I would like to say that I am in favour of Mr Seligman's report. Søren Søndergaard knows very well that there is a significant majority for CETA in the European Committee. I think, too, sir. Søren Søndergaard agrees that similar trade agreements have been concluded in the past without there having been a mandate in the committee. But we are dealing with it here in the Chamber. It can't be much finer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013105835	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013105836	It is being dealt with in this Chamber because we have asked for it. Otherwise it would not have been dealt with in this Chamber. After all, the Committee on European Affairs gives the negotiating mandate on the basis of the logic we have in our heads when it comes to agreements of greater importance, and that is what is being called into question here. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: is the view of the Left that in future we should no longer give a mandate to negotiate larger-scale agreements? Is this what is being adopted while the Enhedslisten and the Alternative's proposals are being rejected here?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013105916	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013105917	No, you can't deduce that. After all, we had a long discussion at the last meeting of the European Committee on Foreign Affairs on this issue, where the Minister for Foreign Affairs gave an account of previous agreements. Sometimes a mandate has been obtained, sometimes no mandate has been obtained, and it is on the basis of a concrete assessment in each case of the scope of the agreement in question. So, here, where there is no fear whatsoever that important things such as consumer rights, the environment, health, etc. It will be possible to change it, it is a trade agreement, it is not so much more than that, so the government has not considered that there is a need to obtain a mandate. And that is an assessment that I agree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013110001	Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013110010	Thank you. First of all, it is of course interesting that it is the rapporteur of the party which is talking about tidal waves of international crime that will sweep over Denmark as a result of the Danes 'no' on 3 December last year who is talking about other parties running a store on the basis of fear. That's exciting enough. But now to the point. It is not, of course, about whether this agreement is good or not, but it is about whether to administer after something that has not yet been adopted. Let's go back to the last parliamentary term. There was a majority in this Chamber for a payment ring around Copenhagen. It was even in the government base that it came into being. How would the rapporteur have reacted if the Vejdirektoratet had started collecting toll around Copenhagen before it had been adopted in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013110049	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013110053	I think this is a very silly comparison, I must admit. I think it's a very silly comparison. And then I do not understand the opening remarks that, as far as cross-border crime is concerned, yes, sir. There I thought that we looked at it in the same way in the Left and the Danish People's Party: home robbers, bicker-gang criminals with European roots etc. We're doing everything we can to fight. Then perhaps we could disagree on the means, but I thought that we had a common understanding that these were serious problems. I understand that this is not something to go around and be afraid of in this way, but it is certainly something to take seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013110133	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013110136	It may well be that the rapporteur thinks that such a thing as the fact that things must be adopted before they are administered is such a silly and somewhat indifferent principle. But for some of us it is a principle. So I would just like to repeat my question: how would the rapporteur have felt if there had been a management after something that was assumed to be a majority for, but for which there was never a majority? How, then, did the rapporteur react?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013110204	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013110205	Sir. Jeppe Jacobsen has signed that he will observe the law of the foundation, and then I assume that he has also put himself in it a little. The Constitution has a government prerogative, § 19, which says that it is the government that accedes to international agreements, including trade agreements. It is a government which has a democratic majority behind it, otherwise it would not have been a government. So it's not like some people have just been sitting there thinking that this is probably somebody who thinks that's a good idea and probably a majority. It is the government that concludes agreements, including trade agreements. If we consider this to be far-reaching, then we shall obtain a mandate from the Committee on European Affairs. That is quite clear. After all, the comparison with the payment ring is completely out of hand, because it would be a decision where there is no one else who can make that decision than possibly the citizens' representation in Copenhagen. We can also discuss this because, for example, Frederiksberg, where I live, would be locked up, and I might think that we should also be asked under the Road Act. But it is a completely different debate that I find it difficult to see what has to do with the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013110307	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013110330	Thank you. Free trade is good. It opens up markets for businesses and consumers to the benefit of both parties. Free trade creates growth, jobs and makes the world's poor richer. It forces small-savvy countries to boost competitiveness and product quality when they have to cope in the global market, and it is also good for both companies and consumers. For us in the Liberal Alliance, free trade is the most important thing in European cooperation, and we are delighted every time the European Union lands an ambitious free trade agreement with another country, because that is exactly what the European Union can and must, in other words, open doors, break down customs walls, remove barriers to trade and very much like to be a banner leader in global free trade. This does not mean that we must uncritically and blindfold anything that calls itself free trade, but that means that once the European Union has concluded a good free trade agreement, we must be ready, not foot-to-hand. Free trade as a concept is under political pressure in the world and we must remember what the alternative to free trade is. Types like Marine Le Pen and Donald Trump want to replace free trade with national protectionism. That's too bad. And I sincerely hope that neither one of them nor the other will be given power as they have heeded. At a time when increasing national populism is challenging globalisation, we must be vigilant about the importance of countries trading with each other without political, protectionist thjulahoplege. It is therefore a bit surprising that the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, which I regard as so much globally oriented parties, want to stick a stick in the wheel for the EU-Canada Free Trade Agreement to be applied on a temporary basis while national ratification processes are ongoing. However, it is quite common practice for those parts of mixed agreements that are wholly or partly EU competence to be applied until all the Member States of the European Union have formally ratified the agreement, and so it should be. Alternatively, the European Union will be a much weaker negotiating party when it comes to countries' global agreements, and no Europeans are interested in that. We should not leave the scene to the Chinese, for example. come to environmental standards. Once we have left competence to the European Union to negotiate free trade agreements, we must also accept that the European Union actually uses that competence. If there was even something totally controversial about the content of the agreement itself, then perhaps I could understand the resolution better, but frankly, there is no such thing. It's Canada we'd like to trade with. I've been living in Canada for a couple of years, and even if I do my wildest paranoia, I can't find anything to worry about. So that we should block the temporary application of a good free trade agreement at a time when everyone is rooting for the European Union to show its worth and where the spirit of protectionism is carried out by boring political forces, is rather strange in my optics. The Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013110649	Thank you. Then there are two brief comments. The first one's from sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013110657	Thank you for a passionate rapporteur speech for this free trade agreement. Now there was a small remark that it was incomprehensible that the alternative would actually stand up for something called different levels of competence, and that we therefore do not mean that we do not have clarity about the fact that we can let anything enter into force. So I really have to ask the rapporteur, as I have done a little before to some of the others: does the rapporteur have an overview of the three levels of competence in the small 1 600-page agreement? What lies in purely EU competence? What is involved in the division of powers, and what is involved in purely national competence?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013110733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013110735	No, I haven't, and I'm not worried about it. What we know is that it is quite common practice, quite ordinary procedure, when these free trade agreements are concluded, which are extremely complex. I think this agreement is 1,500 pages, and I have to admit that I do not have an overview of exactly which competences lie where. But what we know is what procedure we are setting in motion when Denmark announces to the European Union that we are in favour of the EU negotiating a free trade agreement with Canada. This mandate includes the fact that temporary application is part of the agreement, and it would be strange if, because of internal procedures back in time, we were to block part of the agreement which Denmark has already nodded to.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013110822	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013110824	Anyway, this isn't just a free trade agreement. It is the most ambitious free trade agreement ever. That is how our dear Commissioner presents it. That is to say, it is far more far-reaching than anything we have ever done. How, then, can we just equate it with a smaller free trade agreement with Vietnam or Colombia, since it is now the most ambitious free trade agreement ever?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013110853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013110854	But I have not equated CETA with free trade agreements with either Vietnam or Colombia. What I am referring to is the practice that exists when the European Union negotiates free trade agreements in the world, and it is of course the same, no matter what type of agreement it is that is being negotiated. What is at stake here is both, in the wider global spectrum, whether you want free trade or not to free trade, but also the EU's credibility as a negotiating party. I just think that, and I believe that the Alternative has an interest in the fact that the European Union stands globally as a strong negotiating partner in free trade. As I said in my speech, I do not want to leave it to the Chinese or others who do not have the same standards in terms of workers' rights or the environment as we have in Europe. So there is, of course, a lot at stake in relation to whether the European Union can live up to the agreements we are making, with the support of the Member States, which, after all, we have from several years back.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013110957	Sir. Søren Søndergaard for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013110959	Thank you so much. I will not take the debate with the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur on the content of this agreement now. For that is something we will have to discuss after New Year, and then we will have the debate there on whether this agreement is now as unproblematic as the Liberal Alliance rapporteur says. However, I would just like to ask again about the question of mandate. How does the Liberal Alliance feel about the fact that no mandate has been obtained in the European Committee for these negotiations? Is it something that the Liberal Alliance supports, or does the Liberal Alliance share, on this point, the view expressed by several others that it is problematic when we do not discuss things in advance in the Folketing, but leave them to the European Committee that the European Committee is then not allowed to deal with them in order to give a mandate to the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013111051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013111053	I think that the government should take more seats in the European Committee than what is being done. We have also had various discussions in the Committee on European Affairs on how, for example, the Committee on European Affairs. can force a government in office at any time to take up a mandate in an area that the government itself has not designated to be important enough. And I support this because, in relation to the democratic process, I think it is important that there is democratic control, even early in the process. But that's just not what we're discussing here. What we are discussing here is whether, due to a historic internal process, Denmark should block part of a free trade agreement in an area in which we have given competence to the European Union. I believe that we are putting our own country at risk, but we are also risking the credibility of the European Union as a negotiating partner, and I do not think we should do so. However, I would like us to continue discussions on how we can ensure that the government takes office in the European Committee when the European Committee considers this to be relevant and I know that we agree a long way along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013111153	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013111155	No, we didn't have to risk anything. We'd only have been able to take a normal treatment in the Folketing. Now it has been proposed that it should already be in January. Perhaps it could have been speeded up a little. So that would not under any circumstances have damaged our credibility. It would just have maintained the clarity that when we have surrendered competence from the Folketing, there must of course be mandate, and if there is not, it must be dealt with in the Folketing. So I don't think that's a problem. However, I understand the rapporteur in this way that the rapporteur really agrees that a mandate should have been given in this matter, and I accept that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013111233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013111234	Well, I don't have much to add to that. After all, we agree on what the process should have been like. What we then disagree about is what the consequence should be of the fact that the process has not been as you and I think it should have been. I am not so concerned about this free trade agreement that I believe that the process in hand should override the provisional application of the free trade agreement. What we then disagree about is what the consequences of the procedure should be, and it may well be the result of political disagreements about whether you are concerned or not concerned about the free trade agreement, and there I am just not worried.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013111314	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013111326	Thank you. I shall try to deal only with the motion for a resolution that we are discussing, namely on the provisional entry into force of this free trade agreement. CETA, as I said before, has been referred to as the most ambitious free trade agreement ever. I don't judge whether it's good or bad, I just judge that's what it's been judged to be. I therefore find it incomprehensible that we should use exactly the same procedure as has been done in the past, partly because this agreement is so comprehensive, but also because it is not clear which areas of CETA fall within the shared competence, that is, the competence shared between the purely European Union and the national one. It is of course important for what is coming into force. It's important, given what it really is, we just let go past us and nod to. After all, the European Commission has asked the European Court of Justice for clarification in relation to the EU-Singapore free trade agreement, precisely to clarify what is at the different levels of competence. I can't actually understand how to sit around and nod to this deal when we don't know. We do not even know about that agreement with Singapore. So how do we know that in these little 1,600 pages of agreement that CETA is made up of? It has been gratifying that a number of questions have been answered by the Minister this morning. This gives such little clarity as to which areas are not expected to fall during provisional application. So there is still a great deal of confusion here about which areas are covered by it anyway. I think it is important to say in this debate that the only legal assessment I have seen of these different levels of competence is one that the Commission has made, which in fact thought it was all the exclusive competence of the European Union. Then the Commission has given itself because there was a request from the Council which said: we therefore believe that this is shared competence and that there is also purely national competence. That is why it had to be ratified in the individual countries. But we do not have a legal assessment of what is at what levels, so we do not know what we stand and say yes to. And that is why we have tabled this motion for a resolution together with the Enhedslisten, and I was actually hoping that there would have been a majority in favour of this, so that we really know what we are nodding at when the Minister is going to take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013111604	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Danny K. Malkowski of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013111611	Thank you very much. Like our rapporteur, I am very surprised that this resolution is supported by the alternative, because I do not really think there is a lack of vision and a desire for a new political agenda when it comes to national action. So I am a little out of comprehension about why it is that we want to stick to the fact that we do not have to conclude an agreement on a temporary basis via CETA, since it is quite a standard procedure and there is nothing dangerous in this document. In other words, we are talking about creating additional exports growth of 2.2 billion. kr. We are talking about creating wealth and increasing quality of life for Danes. So I am completely incomprehensible about what it is, the Alternative believes there is so dangerous for Danish economy and for Danish welfare in this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013111653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013111654	We can enter into the discussion on what this agreement is about, and I can also give examples of whether there is in fact doubt as to whether it gives such great and fantastic growth in the economy and what growth it is in the economy that we are talking about. But what is important here is to look at what we are saying yes to. We don't know. We don't know! And what I think is absolutely crucial and what is crucial for us is actually to say: should we not know what we are entering into, legally? What kind of door are we opening? I think that security is absolutely essential for us to actually be able to take a position on something on a qualified basis. And the only reason why this is being discussed at all is that we have tabled this motion for a resolution. For this whole agreement on small 1,600 pages, no mandate has been taken at any time. There's been some kind of briefing. It has never been mandated.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013111751	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013111759	To Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist I just want to ask the question: does the alternative have a specific point where it is believed that this agreement is about our exclusive competence as a nation and where the government has a different view? In other words, is there a specific concern, or is it more such a theoretical, philosophical concern?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013111836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013111837	No, it would be fantastic if the alternative had it. We would be the only ones who had made a legal assessment of it in addition to the European Commission. So, of course, I cannot stand by and answer what it is actually for a lot, because we do not know. Nor have we been able to get an answer from the Minister. And I do not think that is philosophical; I really think that what we are discussing here is political and legal: can we say yes to something that we do not know what is?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013111901	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013111904	Well, I just think you might put the bar very high to yourself if you think you should make such alternative legal considerations on a 1,600-page agreement. After all, there are people employed to make these assessments... that's there in the ministries, and that's there in the Commission. In other words, if you want to pursue politics, you have to rely sometimes on the people to whom we have hired and pay wages to make some assessments, also to make assessments that are correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013111942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013111943	Well, the only legal assessment I've seen of this is that this is one EU competence, so there's nothing for us to talk about. And that is what the Council has said: we do not agree with them. After all, we have not received any legal assessment of what parts of this agreement fall below the different levels of competence.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013112002	There is another brief comment from Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013112008	Thank you. Let us now pretend that there was a majority in favour of this resolution and that the European Union would actually block its provisional application. How does the rapporteur view this would affect the EU's reputation as a free trade negotiator in the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013112026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013112027	In fact, I believe that the EU Commissioner, who is sitting here negotiating this, could lift the pipe and call his negotiating partner in Canada, that is, the new Prime Minister, who has not been involved in negotiating this agreement, and say: there is simply something that we need to get under control in the European Union. You guys okay with that? And I am actually sure that, with his very liberal and very constitutional view of reality, he would agree to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013112052	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013112055	So, in other words, the rapporteur does not think that it would weaken the credibility of the European Union as a negotiating partner if we first reached an agreement that has been negotiated for years, and then afterwards announce that there is a part of it which, for the other side, is very crucial, which unfortunately cannot be taken into account anyway. Does this have no effect on the credibility of the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013112114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013112114-2	No, I think it would be a good thing for the credibility of the European Union to actually stand up to the fact that there is something called law and the various levels of competence and that the European Union goes out and says: no, we stand up for this. We stand up for not being able to decide everything. Actually, it's different places. It is also about the rule of law, and I actually think the European Union could gain from that, namely by standing up for it and protecting it and not giving it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013112134	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. There are no more brief comments. I should like to know whether Mrs Zenia Stampe wishes to speak as rapporteur. She doesn't. Then I'm gonna ask you if Mr. Keating's gonna be okay. Holger K. Nielsen wishes to speak. He doesn't. Then it's mr. Magni Arge from Tjóðveldi, Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013112208	Thank you, sir. President. I have a slightly different approach to the discussion on the free trade agreement between Denmark, the EU and Canada, and it is about the fact that the agreement does not actually benefit all parts of the Kingdom community. For the Faroe Islands, this is actually a threat, if I can put it that way, because the agreement that the Faroe Islands have with the European Union is a free trade agreement between the European Union and the Faroe Islands, but it is not a purely free trade agreement between the Faroe Islands and Denmark and the European Union. Because exports of our fish products are limited to this positive list and we cannot export all processed fishery products to the European Union. But according to this agreement, as far as I can read it, Canada now has free access to exports of all fish products to Denmark and the EU, which means that Canada will have better conditions in terms of trading with Denmark in fish products than what the Faroe Islands get. I would also like to hear confirmation of this from the Minister. According to this agreement, as far as I can read it, the EU will also have easier access to exports of fish products originating in other countries to Denmark and the European Union. That's what they call "a more relaxed rule of origin." This puts the Faroe Islands and probably Greenland at a disadvantage in terms of competitive conditions on the Danish market and on the EU market. In addition, this free trade agreement also contains a passage regarding access for fishing vessels • to Canadian ports • fishing vessels. It shall, as set out in the Agreement, be as favourable and cannot be more restrictive than for fishing vessels of other countries. I can tell you that all Canadian ports are closed to Faroese fishing vessels. Faroese fishing vessels today have absolutely no access to the ports of Canada. So, although as such I do not wish to interfere in the agreements between Denmark and Canada or the European Union and Canada, I would ask the Minister to answer whether the Faroese situation in this context has been considered at all, so that the different parts of the Kingdom Community, the so-called Kingdom Community, are not put at a disadvantage by the agreement concluded with Canada. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013112443	Thank you, sir. Magni Arge. There are no brief comments, and it is quite convenient that the Minister's turn should be. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013112455	Thank you, President. Thank you for the debate. I regret that the Minister for Foreign Affairs cannot be present in this Chamber today. The Foreign Minister is on mission to Vietnam and I have had the honour and pleasure of addressing the Foreign Minister in this matter. I've been looking forward to that a lot, even though it's outside my normal resort. Although the Minister for Foreign Affairs is not present, the Folketing must of course have the opportunity to ask its questions and also get answers, and it will then be from me in this case, but the answers should be the same as if it had been the Foreign Minister who had been present. At least that's what we're trying to do. A few direct questions were asked by Mr. Søren Søndergaard, but first of all: Thank you for the debate. I would also like to say at the outset that it is indeed gratifying, as I have noted at least, that there still seems to be broad support among the parliamentary parties for free trade. After all, exports represent more than half of our GDP in Denmark, and thus trade with other nations is absolutely necessary for our country's prosperity and job creation now and also in the future. The free trade agenda is, perhaps some will say under attack, and others will say challenged, problematized, and that is, in effect, regrettable. This is certainly the government's starting point, because it is the case that 31 million jobs in the EU are directly dependent on trade with other countries outside the EU, and this is the case with a very large number of jobs in Denmark. And it is not the government's view that it will benefit those jobs and future job creation if we raise barriers to trade in the future. On the contrary, it is the government's view that we should continue to seek more free trade, not less. Then it has been asked why the Folketing has not been involved. The answer to that is that the government has presented CETA to the European Parliamentary Committee on a number of occasions • I think it is nine times that I have been informed • since 2009 when changing governments and changing foreign ministers have informed about the negotiating directives from the Commission on the start of negotiations with Canada. There has then been ample opportunity under successive governments for the parties to make their views known. It is also the impression of the government that, whenever the state of the negotiations has been presented, there has been broad support for the agreement with Canada and, moreover, for the EU to continue to expand its network of free trade agreements with third countries. It is, of course, fair to choose to take a different view here and now, but there have been opportunities for the Folketing to have at least raised a flag and said: we need a more detailed discussion of this. This could have been one of the nine times that the case has been referred to. Then things develop, and that is fair enough, but then we must also bear in mind that the government's assessment of a case is, of course, evolving. There must be parallelism in things like this. Then there has been a concern about the level of protection. I have to say here that it is not the government's view that the agreement leads to a lower level of protection in Denmark and the European Union. On the contrary, CETA is precisely about establishing a high standard of trade on equal terms, and that is why the agreement not only contains provisions on tariffs and regulatory cooperation to promote trade, but also contains ambitious chapters on sustainable development, labour rights and the environment. And then, as Mrs Christina Egelund also mentioned, the basic point of departure is that Canada is not one of the countries which traditionally raises the greatest concerns about environmental or worker considerations. There are other countries where that concern may be more justified than in relation to Canada, but it is of course a fair concern to travel from the time of the Folketing. But it is a concern about something that, in the view of the government, is addressed in the agreement. Then there is the question of this temporary application and whether it is something completely new. It is also fair to raise it from the side of a number of parties and from those who tabled the resolution, i.e. the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. And if some people today in this Chamber and during the previous reading of the proposal problematize the specific question of temporary application, it is the government's view that it must at least be based on a misunderstanding, if you think it is something new. It is fair to criticise it, but it is nothing new. Temporary application is quite common practice and has also been the case with some of the other free trade agreements concluded by the EU and Denmark via the EU. It might also be asked whether anyone will be heard before the provisional application begins. Jan E. Jørgensen, my fellow party member, mentioned it. Actually, there is. A democratic parliamentary guard has been set up to ensure that not only are we going into temporary use, but that it is being verified, and that it is doing so, among other things. by the EU Member States, which first have to give the green light, and then the European Parliament must approve the agreement before the relevant parts are put into temporary use. In the view of the government, this at least ensures broad democratic support for putting into effect those parts which are within the competence of the European Union and which the Council of Ministers agrees should not wait for the often unfortunately lengthy national ratification processes. After all, it is not the Folketing that is referred to here, but the parliaments of other countries where there are somewhat more lengthy ratification processes. At the same time, I would also like to point out and point out that investment protection, including the new dispute settlement system, ICS, is not part of the temporary application. That is why it is the government's view that we can politically problematize these things that we may politically disagree with the government, but as such the matter is unproblematic and we therefore want the Folketing to reject the resolution. Then there is the question of why the government will later apply for a paragraph 19 assent for ratification. In other words, when the government announces that it intends later to obtain the consent of the Folketing for the ratification of CETA under Section 19 of the Constitution, this is due to the fact that the agreement, both in the Folketing and in the general public as well as in other EU countries, has been of particular interest in recent times. And that is, of course, the kind of government prerogatives that I think Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen was talking about finding out when and if there is such legal justification for it, one should of course follow the legal assessment • It is politically wise to seek support in the Parliamentary Committee on Europe or in the Folketing. After all, there is always a balance in line with what political signals are given, what signals are from the public and what international debate there is about these things. But the government does not want to leave any doubt that the Folketing can clearly express its position on Denmark's ratification of the agreement, and therefore there will be this exercise in spring 2017 regarding it. Then there were two specific questions for me from Søren Søndergaard. One is that Søren Søndergaard asks me to confirm that this is a large and comprehensive agreement, and there is. It is an agreement that will have a significant impact on Denmark and, hopefully, a significant positive impact on job creation and Danish exports. So, yes, I can confirm that. Then there is the question of the division of powers, in other words what is specifically proposed for temporary application. It is suggested that most of the agreement will be provisionally applied, due to the fact that the vast majority of the agreement falls within the scope of the EU's common commercial policy. However, certain parts will be exempted. It is about portfolio investment and investment protection and dispute settlement. I mentioned this before, ICS and criminal law measures at camcording, which is certainly an English word, which I think, if I have to translate into Danish, what the rules prescribe, means that as a guest in a cinema you are not allowed to record the film. Then there are the administrative implementation measures in the Member States, and then there is the consultation mechanism on tax issues. Finally, and that's it, sir. Søren Søndergaard asks that the draft Council decision states that the provisional application of the chapters on trade and sustainable development, trade and the labour market, as well as trade and the environment, all of which contain elements that are both EU-regulated and national regulated in relation to a temporary application, must respect the current division of competences between the EU and the Member States. So Søren Søndergaard's second question is no.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013113346	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013113352	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. I won't geek through too much into small questions, since I know that the minister is a substitute. However, I would really like to hear a little about the last thing the Minister mentions about these chapters on trade and sustainability, etc., which are intended not to be in the interim entry into force. Is it like something that is absolutely crucial to the government when you are at the Council meeting that these parts are not included, or is it something where they say that if there is a majority going the other way, can we agree to it? When I ask that, it is because, despite the fact that it has been over the committee nine times since negotiations began, there has never been a mandate, so we do not quite know what mandate the government feels they have when they go down and have to negotiate this provisional entry into force.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013113441	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013113443	Unfortunately, I cannot answer that question. In general terms, I can say that the mechanism we have, and perhaps that is also the explanation or reason why no mandate has been given in this matter, is that back in 2009 the debate in Parliament was therefore mixed. The questioner's party did not sit in the Folketing in 2009, so it was not advertised as a subject one wanted to troubleatize, challenge, check back in 2009. I think it might be said that this is speculative, I must stress that if the government we had in 2009 had the knowledge that we have today, it would have been asked for a mandate in the Folketing, but it was not the political debate. So, and that's my answer, the answer I can give to the government always takes stock of what the Danish Parliament wants. You are only forced to follow what a majority wants, but normally the government, and I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs will, take account of the discussion on the other, what the parties of the Folketing are saying, and then the Minister will meet both the Foreign Minister and other ministers, where appropriate, if the Folketing so wishes, and will take up any discussions that may be in committee. But you usually only follow the majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013113559	The questioner has no further questions, so we thank the Minister. Well, then, sir. Rasmus Jarlov wanted to use his speaking time as rapporteur and, as we try to manage our duties flexibly, we welcome him.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013113622	Thank you. For the sake of good order, I must say that the Conservative People's Party is in line with, among other things. Left and Liberal Alliance, the comments of the rapporteurs I agree with. We are very much in favour of free trade, and we are therefore also pleased that a free trade agreement is being drawn up between the European Union and Canada. The more countries we can trade freely, the better. It is the foundation of our prosperity in Denmark and the rest of the world, and we see this as a very, very great advantage. It is clear that there may also be disadvantages in a free trade agreement. Competition is not one of them, but it is clear that there are some relevant issues that the Left points to, which are about national sovereignty. That is why we are not completely opposed to the issues that are being raised. But, overall, our position is that free trade is something very, very positive and that we will go a long way to achieve it. In relation to the mandate, we are very much in line with the statement we have received from the government of the Committee on European Affairs. And I actually have a little difficulty in seeing the problem in this free trade agreement, compared to the fact that there have been plenty of free trade agreements in the past where the same procedure has been followed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013113741	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and the last thing we have left is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013113756	Thank you. And thank you very much for the debate. I think it was very interesting, including the part that was not really about the specific proposal. For example: I think the questions that came from the Faroe Islands were incredibly interesting, and we must look forward to getting answers to them on another occasion. I understand that a temporary minister cannot answer them on a stand-by basis, but we must have looked into that a little more closely. In relation to the debate, I would like to make five comments. First of all, I think it is strange that there are some people who can say that this cannot have any consequences for Denmark. In other words, if you have read the government's collection note, you know that it is absolutely crystal clear that this agreement can have state financial consequences for Denmark. It's directly in the collection note. So you just have to be clear about that: it can have state financial consequences for Denmark. So the fact that it is just wonderful, I simply do not understand how it can be said, because it is therefore contrary to what is in the government's own collection note. Then there has been a tendency to compare this agreement with all sorts of other agreements, and that seems to me to ignore the fact that the Commissioner has said that this is the most ambitious agreement ever. If we are to mention a similar agreement, for example. TTIP, in which the previous government sought a mandate in the Committee on European Affairs. They were looking for a mandate. And one ignores, when compared to countries such as Columbia, etc., the location of Canada. I would just like to point out that Canada is in the top three in the world with regard to the most investment in the EU Member States top three. In 2014, Canada invested 166 billion. euro. South Korea, which has been mentioned, invested 20.3 billion in the same year. euro. So it is eight times more investment from Canada than from South Korea that we are talking about. I guess it's worth coming in to evaluate the various agreements. For Canada, the EU was the most important and largest trading partner after the United States. Almost 10%. of the country's external trade in 2015 went to the EU. So it is a completely different agreement that we are talking about than it is being produced here, and not something that can be compared to, for example. Columbia. The next point I would like to make is in relation to Mr Beazley's report. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. 'Cause I have to admit, I was a little surprised by Mr. Knox. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen's speech, and that is, of course, because I have followed the discussions that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen has participated in. And I note that on 7 September, a few weeks ago, Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen in the Joint Assembly, very close to this, and I quote: there will be some meetings in the European Committee of Parliament within a few weeks, where I sit as EU rapporteur, where it is that we have to discuss the whole mandate, or at least the starting point that the Minister is taking before the summit in which CETA will certainly be on the agenda. That is what is happening on 18 October. And then Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen: It is clear that I would certainly like to stress that the Commission is not given a mandate to go ahead with this before the debate has taken place in the national parliaments. I think that is actually quite natural. I also think it is a perfectly natural conclusion on top of the scepticism we experience in Europe, on top of the fact that the British have voted out, and so on, that we respect the decision-making procedures that are, after all, around the national parliaments. So there was a very clear indication here that it is natural that we do not give this mandate or that we do not allow for temporary approval. And that's why I just don't understand sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen's statements at this meeting, for it is obviously something other than that, Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen said in the Joint Assembly on 7 September. But all right, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen may have changed his point of view, or there may be other reasons why Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen says otherwise now. I just think I like it better, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen than Mr. Today's. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. That's what I'm gonna say. I prefer sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen from 7 September. Finally, I would like to say on the question of the mandate: now I understand that this has become a new way for the government and the European Committee of the Regions to decide, as it were, whether to seek mandates, namely to raise their finger and to assess whether there is a majority in favour of one's line. And if there is just a majority in favour of one's line, you do not need to seek a formal mandate. It is in any case contrary to the previous government which, in the context of the TTIP agreement, sought a formal mandate, even if there could certainly have been considered to have been some majority for it. I would just like to say to the government that if the government raises its finger in this Chamber, I think the government can see that this is not a view shared by a majority of the parliamentary parties. There is therefore a clear call for a mandate to be sought in future when you have cases of this nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013114324	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013114328	The Enhedslisten was first elected to the Danish Parliament in 1994 and since then 22 years have passed. I'd like to hear Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard, about Mr. Søren Søndergaard can mention one free trade agreement in the 22 years Enhedslisten has sat in the Folketing, which Enhedslisten has supported in votes in the Folketing or in debates out in society. So, has there been one free trade agreement in the 22 years Enhedslisten has been in the Folketing, which Enhedslisten has supported?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013114358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013114359	I can answer that clearly: I cannot answer that. Contrary to Enhedslisten, I have not been in the Folketing for 22 years and I am simply unable to answer questions about Enhedslisten's position on all free trade agreements, including in the after all over 10 years when I was not a member of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013114417	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013114418	Then I think we should assume that my memory is okay, namely the memory that says that I do not remember that I have ever heard Enhedslisten back up a free trade agreement. I think it is a real conclusion that this has probably been the case, i.e. that the Enhedslisten has never supported a free trade agreement. Would it not be more honest for the debate if Enhedslisten said that the real reason why Enhedslisten is also against this is that Enhedslisten is just against international free trade across borders?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013114450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013114451	Firstly, it is wrong that the Enhedslisten is against international free trade across borders. We're not. Secondly, I would like to say to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, that it's as if Mr. Ole Birk Olesen comes in here at the end of the debate and does not know what the debate is about. After all, the debate is about what, among other things, is about. The Danish People's Party has clearly said, and as others have also said: you can support CETA, you can support CETA and yet think that the rules of democracy in the Folketing must be respected. I understand that for the Liberal Alliance, at least for Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, on behalf of the Liberal Alliance members of the European Committee of the Regions, I have nothing to postpone on this matter more important than respect for democratic processes. And there we're just different.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013114539	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013114542	Now maybe I think that mr. Søren Søndergaard is swinging up quite high. In other words, democratic processes are respected, the constitution is respected. Then you might think that the democratic processes should be different, but the democratic processes are being observed. Then I'm just gonna follow up on sir. Ole Birk Olesen's excellent question. It's okay, sir. Søren Søndergaard cannot answer for all 22 years, as he may be among other things. Given the fact that the principle of rotation has not been here for all years, could we not get the answer to the question in writing?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013114616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013114617	I think that question should be put to the Minister. I am sure that the Minister can reply to that on the basis of the minutes of the committee. Well, I'd like to check it out for Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen, but we can ask the Minister to make a written offer. As far as democratic processes are concerned, I would like to say that I believe that the people and the vast majority of those who sit here today see this as our guarantee that the European Committee of the Regions is not just going all the way, in relation to what the European Union has authority. We have a European Committee which investigates matters and gives a mandate to the government, and we do so on the basis of an assessment that this is something we do when it is matters of greater scope. Not least, sir. After all, Jan E. Jørgensen has today helped to stress the extent to which he believes this matter has. That is why, in my view, it is clear that this matter has not been submitted for a mandate in the Committee on European Affairs, contrary to the democratic models we have developed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013114720	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013114722	I agree with the praise of the Committee on European Affairs. I also think that we in the Committee on European Affairs are very good, no doubt about it, and that we are thoroughly involved in matters and so on. It is not the case that I would have opposed it if the government had come and asked for a mandate. That is not how it should be understood. However, I look forward to the answer to the question of how many times Enhedslisten has supported a free trade agreement and I feel most confident that it is Enhedslisten who provides the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013114753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013114754	I think that we should preserve the division of labour and I think that we should ask the Minister that question, because then we will have it with reference to protocol and everything. In the same context, we can ask how many times the Left and the Liberal Alliance have voted against a free trade agreement, so that we get the complete picture.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013114813	Thank you. There is one more brief comment, so the rapporteur will not let go, and it is from Mr Beazley. Jakob Engel-Schmidt from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013114820	So, I regret in advance that my indignation level is not exactly at the same level as Mr. Søren Søndergaards. When I pressed the button, I had actually quite surprised at what the rapporteur said from the platform that Enhedslisten is in favour of free trade across borders, intending to ask him about that. It's new to me. Then it may be that Mr. Søren Søndergaard will tell me if he is aware of how much of Denmark's GDP actually comes from free trade across borders. And when I ask that, that is because CETA is supposed to increase exports by 2 billion. kr. and therefore also strengthens the basis by which Enhedslisten's politicians can distribute and spend more money on welfare. I am actually surprised that the Enhedslisten seems to have adopted such a completely positive attitude towards free trade. Now, of course, I dare not ask for such a concrete answer. It may have to be written and from the Minister, but I think it would be better if Mr. Søren Søndergaard explains the advantages, so not the Minister on behalf of Mr. Søndergaard. Søren Søndergaard now also needs to be bothered with that answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013114922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013114924	It is very good that we get an illustration of how words can be turned. There is a certain difference between free trade and free trade. Free trade is a concept that involves some very specific parts. I would say that, when it comes to free trade, the fact that the maximum level of cross-border trade can be achieved, we do of course fully support it, but that does not mean that we are opposed to imposing restrictions on free trade. Of course, we can impose restrictions on free trade. I think that's obvious. Then I'd just like to say to Mr. Knox. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, that the question of how much of the gross domestic product exactly comes from it, I do not think I should be wiser here from the platform, especially not because the figure that was presented when we got the first draft of a TTEP agreement was much higher than the figure we received later. So, the amount of the 2 billion. kr. I would like to see proof of this. We basically don't know that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013115028	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013115028-2	It must therefore be up to the individual viewer on the back screen to assess how luminously clear the answer is, Mr President. Søren Søndergaard gave in relation to free trade, actually is. The only reason I am asking is because I share that view, Mr President. Ole Birk Olesen said earlier that the Enhedslisten has consistently voted against the free trade agreements that have been allowed to accede and since Denmark is a small country and about 40%. It would be interesting to see how Enhedslisten's policy would have crippled the Danish development economy over the last many years, had Enhedslisten been watching as power or, in fact, power - I regret the confusion of words to which I exposed the President and the rapporteur. Yeah. And thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013115110	It was more of a watch I was thinking about. That is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013115114	I have to insist that, although we are in favour of as much free trade across borders as possible, there is another parameter that weighs heavily on the Enhedslisten, and it is, for example, that free trade does not involve environmentally harmful substances, that it does not pollute our food, that it does not involve social dumping. And there we clearly have a difference from the Left. In other words, when, after eastward enlargement, trade in the product called labour was opened up, we put forward proposals on the part of the Enhedslisten on how to ensure that it did not lead to social dumping. It wasn't the Left's interest. For the Left, it was just about getting off to the most free trade in labour across borders. We have seen the result. Yes, there is a difference between the Enhedslisten and the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013115202	There is a brief comment from Mrs Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013115206	Thank you. I would ask the rapporteur to say a few words about how the rapporteur feels it would affect the credibility of the European Union as a negotiating partner in global free trade agreements if we were to do what the alternative here proposes, namely to run out of part of the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013115222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013115223	First of all, we are not running from part of the agreement. So that agreement has been reached, provided that it is ratified, on the one hand, by the Council of Ministers and, on the other hand, by the European Parliament and, on the other hand, by the national parliaments. I really hope that the European Union has drawn Canada's attention to the fact that until those bodies have ratified it, the agreement is not final. I really hope the European Union has done that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013115258	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013115302	But it is not the final ratification that we are debating here. This is the question of temporary use, which the Alternative and Enhedslisten problematises, and that is part of the agreement. This is part of the agreement that has been negotiated for years, and I think it is strange if the rapporteur does not recognise that it would, of course, significantly weaken Europe's credibility as a negotiating partner if we were to run from that part of the agreement, leaving the global scene to the Chinese or others who are not so concerned, for example. environmental standards, as I know Enhedslisten does. Does the rapporteur not recognise that, if you run from the part of the agreement on temporary application, it will obviously weaken Europe's credibility as a negotiating partner?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013115343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013115344	Well, I can rely entirely on it, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist answered exactly the same question earlier in the debate. I am absolutely convinced that the new Canadian Prime Minister will understand the existence of a democratic system in Europe, and the democratic system must, of course, be respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013115405	Thank you. I consider that no one else wishes to speak on this matter. This seems to be the case and we shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013115412	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. We shall conclude the vote. For the vote 42 (DF, EL, ALT and SF), against 67 (S, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013130000	The debate has been resumed and the first rapporteur is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013130026	Thank you for that, President. Today, of course, we are going to deal with the motion for a resolution to accede to the agreement we made in Paris. The Folketing must, as it were, nod that we are part of the international agreement which was made last year, which is historic and which addresses a historic challenge. A number of people have noticed that we are the first generation to truly feel climate change, but we are also the last generation to do something about it, and it was therefore important that an agreement was agreed in Paris. That is why, of course, it is also important for us in Denmark to agree to that agreement. It can be said that we are not the first to join. We had a discussion in the spring and there were several who argued that we should join as soon as possible. The government is now joining us, but we have been in the somewhat curious situation that the European Union has actually already promised it on behalf of the Member States. After all, it is a good thing that the European Union has taken responsibility, and it was good that the Heads of State agreed on this in Bratislava, because it would have been somewhat embarrassing if an international climate agreement such as the Paris Agreement had been brought into force without the European Union having been involved in that part. I also think it is a good thing that the government has now put forward the proposal, and I also think it is a good thing that it is one of the first things we are discussing in this session, but I also have to say that I think the government, when you now support the Paris Agreement, and when you actually travel around the world and talk about how important this is, should consider looking a little inwards and looking at the policies that are being implemented on a daily basis, which in a number of areas are opposed to the fulfilment of the Paris Agreement, but which, unfortunately, also risks undermining our position as one of those countries that can earn a great deal of money and create very many jobs on the green conversion that we have. I note that the government has chosen to halve EUDP funds for energy research and that the climate ambitions have been turned down as far as I know, it seems that the only country in the world came to Paris with a lower target than the year before and that projects already adopted and offered, such as coastal wind farms, are cancelled. This fear of social democracy can cost us jobs simply because we lose both the leading position we have worked up over the last 30-40 years, but also because it damages investors' confidence in investing in Denmark when it cannot be expected that an agreement is an agreement. For it has actually been one of the greatest strengths of the Danish energy policy over the years. So it can be said that while in Paris a much larger market for green products was created 90,000 billion. I think they say that investments must be made up to 2030, and we have to have a part of that in Denmark, some of those jobs have to be created in Denmark, and there we have a larger market, we can go on with our core competences • we also have more competitors. The truth is that, after Paris knows the whole world, green is to be invested, and therefore there will be many about the bid. So, to sum up, I would like to say that the Socialists of course strongly support the ratification of the Paris Agreement. We think it is high time, but we also think that the government in its day-to-day policy should make a little more effort not to get further away from meeting the demands of the Paris Agreement but, on the contrary, to get closer. It can be said that there is both a major issue at stake: the climate issue for children and grandchildren and the planet on which we must live, but that there is also a larger market at stake and the jobs that we in Denmark can reap and the income we can get if we exploit the fact that we have built up a leading position for 30 to 40 years which allows us to sell our products abroad. We support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013130439	Thank you, and since there are no brief comments, we will take the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Claus Kvist Hansen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013130448	Thank you. The motion for a resolution here deals with Denmark's ratification of the Paris Agreement, which was reached at the COP 21 climate summit in December 2015. In the Danish People's Party we see the Paris Agreement as a step forward compared to the previous one. Until the Paris Agreement has worked to reduce CO2 emissions, that is why the Paris Agreement is landmark, because now almost all the countries of the world have taken part in the project and committed themselves to each of their contributions. So far, there is a very large difference in how much the different countries intend to do, but compared to the past, where only a small number of countries participated, this is a big difference. In the Danish People's Party we welcome the Paris Agreement and we vote in favour of ratification here in the Danish Parliament, among others. because the economic burden associated with reducing CO2 is that the climate policy pursued has been an economic burden for Denmark and for other countries that have engaged in the matter. The strategy for Danish climate policy has been to replace the old production plant with a new and green but more expensive production plant. Although the Danish wind turbine industry has undoubtedly been a success and it has created thousands of jobs and thanks for the fact that the electricity produced by the wind turbines has been more expensive than the electricity we could have maintained from our power plants. Thus, we have provided our homes and businesses with electricity that is more expensive than it could have been, and everything else equal has weakened our economy. Our view is that more attention should be paid to saving energy. To eliminate unnecessary consumption is by far the best way to save CO2 For example, in Denmark we are extremely skilled at isolating our homes and thus minimising the consumption of heat.This is especially true when building new ones. However, the existing building stock also has a great potential for savings that can be realised, and outdated heating installations can be replaced with new and economic solutions. That way we can achieve both savings on CO2 That is why our call to the government and to the Danish Parliament, when we are going to determine energy and climate policy in the coming years, is that the focus is much more on saving energy. DF votes for ratification.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013130718	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013130728	Thank you for that, President. The Paris Agreement will contribute to increased green exports and technology development, etc., but most importantly, the entry into force and implementation of the Paris Agreement will probably help to limit the average global temperature increase. As never before, we are forced to think and act sustainably, and fortunately for that. The innovation and competition to develop and achieve renewable green solutions flourishes. It is therefore very important that a pioneer country in the green area such as Denmark should ratify the Paris Agreement as soon as possible. That is the wish of the Left, which is why we naturally fully support the ratification of the Paris Agreement, according to the Minister's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013130827	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013130840	Now that ratification is in place and it is hopefully very soon that the climate plans of each country will be changed from what is called INDC to the NDC, and that means that what has been announced will be lost in the plans. Virtually every country has plans, and you can actually already go in and see them on the UNFCCC website. This could be a little interesting, because it is, after all, climate catalogs of what each country intends to do in the future, and I think that we can take advantage of our experience of energy efficiency and renewable energy, which we have been working out over the past 40 years. So I would like to ask whether the government could imagine carrying out a lightning analysis of the NDCs with which the different countries are involved, and then following up a 15-year ambitious export strategy, including closer regulatory cooperation with 15 strategically designated countries. Because there will be obvious outlets. The rapporteur is quite right in saying that this is an excellent export window for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013130943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013130945	Thank you for the question. I can inform the questioner that I am not a member of the government, but I understand the rapporteur's question in such a way that the rapporteur has ambitions to promote the green transition, as does the Left. That is why we in the Left welcome the fact that the government is precisely planning an ambitious export strategy. We in the Left welcome the fact that the government is concerned that we should have as much green conversion for the money as possible. That is to say the opposite of the policy of symbols for money. That is why I am just glad that at the same time the government is lifting some of the most ambitious projects, for example. As regards the removal of the PRS tax, which is a green conversion tax, and that, for example, it should be noted that, in the case of make it more attractive to secure heat pumps and everything that we have to export and that we have to inspire the rest of the world with. So that is probably the closest I can come up with an answer to the rapporteur's question, since I am not speaking on behalf of the government but on behalf of the Left. But the rapporteur can of course put the same question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013131053	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013131056	Well, now I'm a little confused because I actually thought the government was made up of the Left and no other parties. I myself have tried to sit in a government where we were a little more parties, and that would perhaps be a little more appropriate. However, I think it is interesting to hear the rapporteur's opinion on whether the Left will then work on a strategy for 15 strategic countries when they have to implement their climate plans; in other words, a conscious export strategy on energy efficiency improvements and on renewable energy, where we have plenty of experience. That's one part. The second part is that I am greatly provoked when the rapporteur says that the abolition of the PSO tax is something that brings about a green transition. I think it would be appropriate to say that the abolition of the PRS tax is the abolition of an investment in energy; in other words, it is an investment fee which we, among other things, are. user to set up wind turbines too. We could also establish other forms of energy for it, it does not need to be green. But to confuse the two points suggests that the rapporteur is continuing that with the fact that newspeak is super fine. Let's say something that means exactly the opposite. I think that is a bad thing in the Assembly Chamber, and I think that should be avoided.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013131203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013131204	In relation to strategic cooperation, we in the Left welcome the fact that the government has entered into strategic cooperation in relation to Mission Innovation, for example, where we are going out with the most ambitious research plan in the field of energy technology. So we are very proud of that. In relation to whether the abolition of the PSP is green, there is no doubt that it is very green to abolish the PSP, that is to say, a green conversion tax. That is why we welcome the fact that we are now actually doing what almost all the parties in the Folketing want, namely to make it more attractive to use electricity as part of the green switch to heating, for transport, etc. This is precisely the task that we are undertaking, but which no other governments or parties have come up with a recipe for how we are doing. That is, in fact, what we have launched, and it is one of the greatest green advances in recent times.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013131303	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013131307	It is very clear that there may be different approaches to voting in favour of this resolution when you hear the rapporteur of the Left. What this proposal includes is, of course, that we need to report in the future what we are doing about climate change. In other words, the government also needs to report when it turns down its ambitions. And if it is true that 350 MW of coastal mills will not be built, then it has to be reported. When you turn down your research and development funds, as in the draft budget, when you cut back on the EUDP, it has to be reported. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether we are faced with anything where green realism, which the Left speaks, sounds very hollow, if you look at the reality and look at what we need to report forward to the European Union, and with regard to our climate action.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013131408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013131409	We must, of course, deliver on our objectives, and that is why we are, of course, pleased that we ourselves, with the government's growth plan, which, in the same way as the previous government's growth plan, has the consequence of emitting a little more CO2 As regards the questioner's remark that the decision on the coastal wind turbines should also be reported, it is the case that we have not just set out to drop the coastal wind turbines we have set up to trade them with even more greener conversion. Firstly, we have proposed that the funds should be used to promote the use of electricity in Denmark for heat pumps, etc., and then we have proposed that both time and location could be postponed until there was a higher demand for electricity. Because we want them to get further off the coast and become offshore wind turbines. Secondly, it is quite essential that, in relation to wind, we not only force the state to pump it more forward with state aid, so that, because of the low electricity price that comes out of the state pumping state aid into the market, others are so low that they are taking down their wind turbines, which are already spinning and producing green electricity today. That is why the most green change for the money that the government and the Left welcome here is that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013131540	Thank you, sir. Thomas Danielsen. No one else has asked for the floor. Yes, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen must have his second brief remark. I'm sorry, I'm the one who's messing with the order.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013131556	Thank you. I mean, when I hear Mr. Simpson... Thomas Danielsen's speech, I think there is good reason for the energy conciliation circle to meet, but we are in a situation where the Minister has cancelled all meetings since April. There is a lot to talk about, there is a lot in the common energy reconciliation that should be implemented but which is being pickled. I really think that is a shame, because that is what can help drive the green transition forward. And then I completely disagree with the rapporteur: that is, if we are going to use more electricity in our systems and we have to do that intelligently, and market forces cannot do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013131628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013131629	I very much agree with the rapporteur that we must use electricity as an essential factor in the green transition, and that is precisely what is being put in place in practice. We are not just talking about it, as the rapporteur's party does. We actually put action behind the words. Therefore, the government's line will result in an increased use of electricity, an increased use of renewable electricity; it becomes more attractive to drive in electric cars, it becomes more attractive to heat our houses up with renewable energy. So this is only a positive green transition, where you get the most for the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013131703	A brief comment from Mr. Christian Poll from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013131708	Thank you. My question is a little in line with Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussens. After all, we have recently received an answer from the Minister to the question of what the 2025 plan will mean, and there we are told that it will give rise to increased CO2 others have calculated it as much as 121⁄2%. I'm gonna be very curious to know what the Left will be doing with the government to compensate for the backsliding as it is now called in Parislang as this gives rise to.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013131749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013131751	It is absolutely true that now that the government chooses to create so much growth and enthusiasm throughout Denmark, it results in an increase in CO2 but we continue to overfill, despite what the EU's objectives are. What you see at the same time is that you want to move some production from abroad to Denmark, thereby making it more climate-friendly than it is today. Because today it is the case that Denmark is one of the most climate-friendly production countries. This means that if we move production from abroad to Denmark, we ensure both more climate-friendly production and more Danish jobs, and that is something that sounds good in the Left's ears.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013131835	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013131837	I must have explained that. How does the rapporteur draw production to Denmark in this context? Is it just because you have a little lower prices? Is that just the angle? Then it is a model calculation that can have great uncertainties.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013131856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013131857	My expectation is that by removing the PRS tax, which the government is proposing, we will go from having these very high electricity prices that we have in Denmark to getting the EU's third-cheapest electricity prices. Then we will be a much more attractive production country, which is why I also expect increased production to take place in Denmark. I also expect Denmark to become a popular country to produce in, because we are some very skilled producers, we have some skilled employees, plus that we have this green profile. So the energy we use at home to produce is very much renewable energy. I therefore believe that it will be attractive to produce in Denmark, also for foreign companies. And then we should not forget that within a short period of time our production of renewable energy will increase, the more electricity we switch to, the more greener and greener it becomes, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013131953	Thank you, sir. Thomas Danielsen. And then we welcome Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013132001	Thank you. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution to ratify the climate agreement concluded in Paris last year. This is an important agreement because it sends a signal of a common recognition among all the countries of the world that climate change is a common challenge that we must stand together to solve. However, it is also important to emphasise that the agreement is not so much more than a signal. Climate change is certainly not being slowed down by this agreement. There is no correlation between the objectives agreed in the agreement and the promises of CO2 reduction made by the countries. So, while there is a very broad consensus that the problem of climate change needs to be resolved, there is also a very broad consensus that it is some others that need to take care of it. If we look at what countries have signed up, we can see that the temperature increases are about 11⁄2-4 degrees, and that is far above what is in the climate agreement, which is 11⁄2 degrees. It is also very worrying that the climate agreement provides for highly questionable market mechanisms, such as: a quota trading system which we in the European Union at least have seen does not work at all. So when we ratify the Paris Agreement in a very short time with this proposal, there is a huge amount of work ahead of us to ensure that we actually achieve the objective we have agreed on, namely that the global temperature should not rise more than 11⁄2 degrees. Here in Denmark we have a very important task because we have been leading for so many years, especially in the conversion of our energy system to renewable energy. We have been one of the countries that other countries have been looking at when they were going to start their green transition when they were going to switch the energy system. We have helped to create hope and believe that the green transition can actually be achieved and that it is possible to maintain a high level of prosperity and prosperity while reducing CO2 This leading position must, of course, be maintained, and we must be very aware of the responsibility we also have, in order to continue to create hope that this can actually be done. That is why it is very regrettable for our climate profile, for our climate review in the rest of the world, that the Left Government chose to drop Denmark's climate targets so shortly before the historic climate summit in Paris. It is also a pity that, while we are discussing this motion for a resolution to ratify the climate agreement, a 2025 plan is being negotiated that will increase CO2 It is a pity that while we are dealing with this motion for a resolution, the government is planning to drop the coastal offshore parks from the world's cheapest offshore parks that could have been built in Denmark but that the government does not want to build because it believes that coastal mills are ugly. We really have a commitment to future generations and, above all, as one of the richest countries in the world. When you also hear the rapporteur from the Left point out that this will be an opportunity to create exports and jobs, I think it is very important to be extremely aware that this will only be achieved if you maintain your leadership, if you constantly ensure that you are at the forefront of the new technologies and with the new opportunities, and that is not the case when you turn it down as the government has done. However, as I said, this is an important agreement, and that is why the Enhedslisten of course supports the ratification of the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013132430	Thank you to Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding. There are no brief comments. That is why we shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013132449	Thank you very much. I certainly wouldn't say I'm a very religious person. On the other hand, as a geologist, I have a degree in science, and I find it very difficult to recognise that, as completely mortal and ordinary politicians, we should have the ability to control the climate seriously and to ensure a certain temperature or temperature increase in a given year in a distant future for a human being, even if it is very imminent on a geological scale. In general, there are enormous uncertainties associated with having an average global temperature increase of well below 2 degrees as a political target. The assumptions behind the calculations are largely insecure, so as not to talk about what it takes to achieve such a diffuse objective. On the other hand, the trap is now clapping. We, or generations after us, cannot go back and relax our objectives if this proves to be appropriate, and there is also a lack of certainty that the agreement will lead to real action in all countries, and where are the sanctions if that does not happen? Climate change is by its very nature a global phenomenon, and that is why, of course, we also have to insist that the politically motivated desire for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions should be considered and agreed for European and/or global purposes. Denmark's climate policy needs to play along with the European and global agenda and be really emission-reducing in a global perspective. Denmark is a small and open economy in a large international market and we alone cannot change the climate. There are many others and much more that affect global climate fluctuations. That is why, in the Liberal Alliance, we do not believe that Denmark should pursue any global major power policy in the area of climate change without really having the muscles to do so. During the phase of the so-called green transition, Denmark has been outbursting for many years in the first stages. It has wasted its strength, and it has also cost economic growth, bearing in mind that economic growth is designed to provide the basis for technological development, which is the solution to the challenge, by creating a low-carbon society in the future. We've got some attention and TV time for our taxpayers' money. It is, of course, gratifying if the many Danish support crowns have helped to pave the way for the big countries, those with the big muscles and the very large CO2 emissions, to have seen alternatives to coal and oil and now to take part of the responsibility on them • and perhaps even buy Danish-produced solutions in the future. But now the tactics have to be changed. We should not increase the head start to the main field anymore, because it will create further distortions of competition and cost further economic growth and more jobs in Denmark. We need to save our energy and get our breath back, and perhaps we need to get to the front of the main field and get to power and get ready for the mass spruce.But unlike when Lars Bak pulls the Tour de France field into Paris, we should all end up together standing at the top of the podium in both 2030 and 2050 and even further out in the future. So all in all we in the Liberal Alliance welcome the fact that the ratification of the agreement is progressing and we support the fact that Denmark, with our ratification, can now contribute further to the progress of the process. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013132917	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013132921	Thank you. The rapporteur mentions that we have missed out on growth. I just want to remind the rapporteur and the listeners that one of the industries in which we have seen the most growth, and that is towards 14-15 per cent, is green energy technology in the last five years. I just want to know if the rapporteur imagines that we could have had even higher growth in this industry if we had not had all these different support schemes, such as the one we have here. EUDP, and what are they all called, which help the industry to develop the green technologies to create the future we want?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133009	No, it is clear that state tax-paying subsidies subsidise and support a specific industry, thereby creating unnatural growth. I do not question that. But there's no question that it's government support crowns that get poised in these industries either.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133035	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133036	But we can also read in several places that the crowns we give out that way come back many times in the growth that is in the industry, in other words in the form of exports and in the form of the development of new technologies that contribute to the welfare that we also have. So I guess they're pretty well spent, huh?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133059	I know that the Environmental Economic Council in Denmark has estimated that a continued one-sided focus on the expansion of wind energy in Denmark will cost approx. 5,000 jobs, or at least up to 5,000 jobs on a relatively clear horizon of 2-3 years. And I also believe that I am familiar with studies from both Spain and the United States, which show that every time you create a subsidised workplace, you actually miss out on up to two similar jobs in other sectors.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133136	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133140	There are just two things I would like to ask the rapporteur to clarify from the rapporteur's speech and which I should just like to be sure of. Does the Liberal Alliance recognise that the climate challenges, the climate change that we face today, are man-made? And does the rapporteur recognise the fact that when we know that the whole world has to adapt to renewable energy and away from fossil fuels, then there can be a very good economic advantage in being among the countries that develop the technologies and develop the technological solutions that we know the rest of the world will need? Is this a link that the rapporteur recognises?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133223	I am quite sure that, as I also believe I indicated in my speech, in Denmark we have some opportunities to sell Danish energy technologies and have export earnings from it. I do not think there can be any doubt about that. First of all, in terms of recognising whether climate fluctuations are man-made or not, I would say that there is no doubt that there are some of the climate fluctuations we are experiencing at the moment, which are forced by human activity.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133256	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133258	Climate fluctuations So, it is absolutely true that CO2 compared to the increase in CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133327	No, I do not agree with the questioner on that. As I replied to the first question in the first brief remark made by the questioner, it seems to me that there is probably some kind of human influence in relation to the fluctuations we are currently seeing, but that it is clearly human activity that is responsible for the current climate fluctuations, I do not agree with the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133356	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133359	Thank you. I also thought it was interesting to be introduced to this climate change thing. This is such a very interesting way of addressing your position on this challenge. I would like to ask a little about these EUDP funds, because I actually get the impression from the rapporteur's speech that the rapporteur's party does not think that this is a good investment for Denmark. I have previously asked a politician's colleague in connection with an opening debate, Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, on these EUDP funds, where I actually got the answer that it was a pity that they were cut down as much as the government put up in connection with the Finance Act that was concluded last time. Then I would just like to ask the rapporteur to explain what is actually the Liberal Alliance's position on these EUDP funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133447	I am, of course, sorry if the questioner has been confused and perhaps misunderstood some of what I said in my speech here. We in the Liberal Alliance agree with what I have at least the impression that the questioner also thinks, namely that in some situations, at least, EUDP funds may have been well spent. There are these demonstration examples that can be beneficial for Danish exports and can help promote new technological solutions and demonstrate them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133518	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133518-2	Yes, that is true in some cases, but also generally. An inventory was made some time ago which showed that the EUDP funds give the money back one and a half times, i.e. that overall it is a real, really good adjustment. I am aware that the rapporteur is generally concerned about business subsidies and we are also in my own party, but is the rapporteur not also so much a merchant that when it makes a profit and the money comes back to Denmark, it is a good thing for Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133546	I was born and raised in West Jutland, and there of course we are in favour of good economic merchantship. Whether this money could have been better spent and given a better return than the one and a half times that the questioner mentions, I am not really aware of. In any case, I believe that other options could perhaps be explored in order to bring the issue of growth into play.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133610	There is a brief comment from Mr. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133614	Thank you. Now Mrs Mette Abildgaard almost took the floor out of my mouth, because I wanted to ask about this too. If the rapporteur agrees that this could provide great opportunities for a large market to provide these green solutions, I think we must all acknowledge that I could perhaps wave the question a little and ask: does the Liberal Alliance have any other and better ways of spending money than through such a business-oriented research, development and demonstration tool as the EUDP?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133648-2	As the questioner himself indicates, the question is very much similar to Mrs Mette Abildgaard's question and, as I replied there, I am not immediately aware of whether there could be any other way of getting your money and investments back better than the one and a half times that Mrs Mette Abildgaard indicated that EUDP funds provide. However, I acknowledge and agree with the questioner that there is potentially a large market waiting out there for us or for others who have the right green energy solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133724	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133725	I assume that the rapporteur agrees with me that we are some of those who are in the mood to reap the benefits and create the jobs in this area. But let me rephrase this, because if the rapporteur is not able to think of or is not aware of any better ways of spending money than, for example, on the EUDP, can one put it a little bit like that with the Liberal Alliance that you should either almost say that you do not want to spend money at all in this area, or say that you should actually spend the money on the EUDP? It goes a little bit on the financial law that you yourself have been involved in making, where you cut the subsidies half way. So if you cannot point out a better place to spend the money, it might be more honest to say that you do not think at all that money should be spent on the green conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133812	Now I know that there may be certain times when we in the Liberal Alliance can be very categorical and perhaps even ultimate. I don't think we'd be in this field and in this context. As Mrs Mette Abildgaard also pointed out a moment ago, Mrs Mette Abildgaard was shown during the opening debate to receive an answer from Mr Mette Abildgaard. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll states that we in the Liberal Alliance do not necessarily support the government in its proposed cuts in EUDP funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133844	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach, there are no more brief remarks. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013133852	Today is a happy day, I think. Now we can really get started. Once the Paris Agreement has been ratified, it must be translated into Danish climate, energy, environment, agriculture and transport policy. The objectives of the Paris Agreement must now be implemented in all countries throughout the world's policy. A lot of people are already at it. Denmark is also undergoing a green transition, it has been a long time, but at the moment it is unfortunately going the wrong way. The 2025 plan and the agricultural package increase our CO2 We want to abolish the PSO tax and so on. No backsliding. In other words, no new policy must be put forward which is moving in the wrong direction. But what's interesting today is to talk about what we're doing now. In the alternative, we have a lot of good ideas that the Minister and the government may not entirely categorize under green realism, but which, in our view, are absolutely crucial if we are to make our contribution to reducing global warming before it has fatal consequences, not only here at home, but especially for the world's most vulnerable. We know, of course, that the first round of national reductions, the so-called NDCs, is not at all sufficient to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. We therefore believe that the Paris Agreement is the beginning of an era, a new time when the climate crisis becomes the pretext for all politics. That is why we are listening to climate scientists when they say that all rich countries in Europe, North America, Australia, all OECD countries have to go down to zero consumption of fossil fuels, perhaps by 2030, if we are to have a chance to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement. We need to have a snowball effect in which all countries set themselves the targets to ensure that we also have a habitable planet for our children and grandchildren. Denmark must push ahead with this process. We know that conversion is technological, physical, biological and chemical possible and that it will only be more expensive the longer we wait to set things in motion. That's why we want a stop to the sale of fossil cars by 2025. That is why we want a sustainable conversion of agriculture, where climate pressures are minimized and production is much less animal than it is today. That is why we want a green tax reform where it will be more expensive to pollute and cheaper to make it climate-friendly. And that is why we will soon be tabling a motion for a resolution that all new government legislation should be assessed in relation to the consequences for the objectives of the Paris Agreement and the 17 new world objectives for sustainable development. I know what most opposition parties will do to speed up the transition. I also have a fairly good idea of what the remaining parties want. But I actually have no idea how the government will ensure that Denmark contributes to achieving the goal. The Minister and the government often talk about green realism, that it should be cost-effective and not be unnecessarily expensive. The conversion must, of course, be made most cost-effective. But to be honest, it must cost to save lives, yes, life on this earth. Climate change is deadly and will send 200 million people on the run by 2050, for example, to the United Nations. In 2100 large parts of the Middle East will be uninhabitable of heat, and it will be fatal to be outdoors. If we do not want to see massive flows of climate refugees in the future, we must take serious action now. Of the last 16 months, all have put new warmer chords, and therefore the concentration of CO2 can only go too slowly with the switch to renewable energy. I am astonishingly often encountering climate sceptics, and I would say to them: let us look at the two options that exist. If I am right and there is really a climate crisis, but we are not doing anything, we are in fact in danger of creating a holocaust for our children and grandchildren. If you climate sceptics are right and there is no climate crisis, but we are doing what we can to live up to the Paris Agreement, then in 30 years' time we have created a better world with clean air, clean water, healthy children, green jobs, energy independence, even if there was no climate crisis to solve. I know what I prefer. Denmark plays a crucial role in the global transition to renewable energy. We can be those who show the rest of the world that it is possible, as we have done before, that that is what creates jobs and that is what can create welfare. The world needs an example of a serious sustainable transformation with a fundamental revolution of the way we organise ourselves. The first step towards this is a translation of the Paris Agreement into Danish politics. For one thing, ratification of the Paris Agreement is another is translating the historic climate agreement into politics. And here I do not believe that the Danish Government or the EU takes the agreement seriously enough. The climate agreement was a turning point, but at the same time also a little a gun to the head. For the first time in the history of the world, we have agreed where we are going, and now we have to act on the best available science. The task now will be to ensure that we reach the goal in time. And we're busy. It is really so simple: if we take the Paris Agreement seriously in Denmark and in the EU, we must adjust our policy so that it respects the 1.5-degree objective. I look forward very much to getting that adjustment started as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013134525	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013134529	Thank you to the rapporteur for having great ambitions in the area of climate change. It's always nice. I noted that the rapporteur said in his speech that we should have fossil fuel-free cars by 2020, and I would like to ask a little about this, because I know that in Germany, but also elsewhere, they have a goal to phase out cars powered by petrol by 2030. I very much agree with that ambition, and I can also hear that the Federal Council is actually very visionary on this point. I would like to ask what the rapporteur imagines if we are going to achieve this by 2020: what kind of cars are we talking about? And how are we going to achieve that objective, it requires taxes, etc.? It's just for a little more detail.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013134612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013134613	Thank you for the question. The year I mentioned was 2025, i.e. Five years before what has just been decided in Germany. I was very pleasantly surprised to hear about that decision in Germany, and I am trying to dig a little bit into it to understand what they have decided to do. I have asked the Minister for Finance some questions about the possibility in this and have received some answers that there may be some problems with EU law. But I'm not sure I agree that those problems can stop it. So one thing is that we would like to have some decisions to stop buying new fossil fuel-powered cars, but of course, up to that decision coming into force, we must do everything possible to develop the electric cars in particular so that they can meet the needs.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013134704	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013134705	The reason I am asking a little bit about this is that we are currently discussing the Maabjerg Energy Center in West Jutland. After all, it is a work that will produce second-generation bioaetanol, which will then be used as incorporation in our petrol. SF thinks it's a great idea if we can do it in Denmark and be among some of those who can be world leader in the waste that you actually make bio-aetanol on. As I understand it, the alternative is not quite warm on the idea. That is why I am a little curious to hear what kind of car it is that you are supposed to drive fossil-free already in 2025, because we know that electric cars cannot meet the needs. The very fact that there are, among other things, Garbage vehicles which are not allowed to drive on electricity due to the explosion hazard must, of course, make other types of transport to be covered. That's why I ask curiously. And I'm genuinely curious, because I think it may be that the alternative has discovered something that I haven't discovered.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013134802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013134804	2025 is in 9 years, and when I look back at the rapid development that has been in the development of electric cars, I feel reasonably sure that we will get very far with the electric cars during that period. Then you can talk about the heavier transport, and I am not sure to what extent it should be included. But I imagine we can get a long way with biogas in the heavy transport. That is something that needs to be set in motion. As far as the incorporation of biofuels into petrol is concerned, it is a requirement of the European Union that we must try to live up to. There, of course, it is an advantage if you can do it with second-generation biofuels. When we are a little sceptical about the Maabjerg Energy Center, it is of course because we would rather see the development that we get over the steppes with the electric cars than that we continue to find technologies that can prolong the fossil technologies currently used in the cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013134910	Then it's mr. Carsten Bach for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013134913	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for a passionate speech by the rapporteur, I think. And as I also said to the Alternative's political rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the second day of the opening debate, unfortunately I think that there is a very crisis-oriented rhetoric, and I do not entirely share the pessimism that the rapporteur is also presenting here, even using the term Armageddon. I would like the rapporteur to say a few words about what we are against. In addition, however, there was another point in the rapporteur's speech, as I noted, and this is the point of what is termed the change in agricultural practices. I would like to hear from the rapporteur what the relationship is between the alternative's desire for a hundred percent conversion to ecology and the very passionate climate demands.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013135014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013135016	Thank you. There were two questions. One was about Armageddon, and that is also where I mention in my speech the UN figure of 200 million refugees in 2050. I think that in itself will be a very serious situation which will have a profound effect on the lives of our children and grandchildren. And then the weather will get wetter and wilder, as you've been talking about for many years. It can mean more drought, more flooding, even closer to ourselves. With regard to the second question, that is to say on ecology, I know that we have a standing discussion on CO2 There is, of course, that, yes, organic farming per year. kg of meat produced, or per kg of meat produced. The area used has a slightly higher climate load, but it is only if you count everything else equal, that is to say one for one, and you do not count the build-up of carbon in the soil layer. For there it is the case that conventional operation removes carbon from the top layer of the soil, and it goes up into the atmosphere, while organic operation at least builds up or retains the humus layer and thereby reduces the climate load. This is something that we are now beginning to calculate in the climate accounts, including in the EU, what is called LULUCF, how these carbon pools are bound in land and crops and such.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013135157	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013135159	Thank you. In fact, I am very pleased that the rapporteur recognises that there is an increase in the number of people employed in this sector. The production unit is a higher environmental impact than conventional operations, and I also noted in the rapporteur's speech that it was less animal production. What the rapporteur is trying to say is that people want to be forced to eat less meat with meat-free days and so on. Will the rapporteur not recognise that more refugees and a little more rainfall may not quite mean Armageddon?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013135232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013135234	In my view, it is a violent thing that the UN brings with it when they talk about 200 million refugees by 2050. I'd like to call that Armageddon again. As far as ecology is concerned, everything else is equal, and the ecological revolution we think is in full swing also means that we eat differently, that we produce in another mixture of meat and vegetables. It will be a natural thing, it is already too many. I have an example from Rander's hospital, which has actually been converted within the same budget, I have understood the ecology by cutting down on meat consumption. And we do have one of the world's highest meat consumption, so it can actually be a good idea • several researchers say that it also provides a healthier diet.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013135326	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013135339	In the Radical Left, we are very excited that the countries of the world have succeeded in reaching an agreement on tackling climate change and reducing the world's CO2 emissions. There is no doubt that that agreement is not enough to achieve its goal, but we are very pleased that it has been possible to do something internationally. As far as international cooperation is concerned, there is a long way between the snaps with the British leaving the European Union and all sorts of other conflicts that are difficult for the international community to resolve. However, right here, binding targets were set for everyone. We are very pleased about this, and we therefore of course support the motion for a resolution here to ratify the agreement in Denmark. However, as many colleagues have done, I cannot help noticing that there is a very great difference between the Left Government's enthusiasm for this climate agreement and the policy being pursued in Denmark. I would say that the policy in Denmark most of all represents a full stop to the green transition. Those who know the energy settlement of 2012 can see that virtually everything that can be stopped, except just the support for biogas, has been put to an end. The research is being cut, a supply strategy is being drawn up which is mostly about the supply sector being cheap and there should not be so much room to invest. If you look at the 2025 plan, the economic plan for the next ten years or so, you see that climate is not mentioned in a word and that there is no room for new investment. So as we see it, it's full stop. If all the countries had opted for that policy in Paris, the agreement would not have been reached. That is why, of course, I would also like to take this opportunity to call on the government to stand by the energy conciliation we have made and also to discuss with some of us parties that would like to invest green, if there could not be room in this 2025 plan to invest in both green research and, of course, in more renewable energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013135552	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013135606	I thought it was fantastic when the Prime Minister opened the Danish Parliament with the words that he would like to leave a Denmark for future generations, which is better than what he himself had received from among others. his mother and father. Because that's not what we're doing. At the moment, we are moving in the other direction in the area of climate change. And we actually have an obligation to look our children in the eye and say: We are willing to leave you a better planet. In other words, they get the same access to natural resources and the same access to an untouched planet as we do. From this point of view, the Paris Agreement is, in fact, a major step forward. It is positive that the countries could be together for an agreement and that, as in Kyoto, it was not seen that large countries chose to drop out. It is also positive that the Paris Agreement enters into force in almost record time and that China, the United States and the European Union have ratified. It is also positive that the agreement obliges countries not to increase pollution, even temporarily, but instead requires all countries to reduce emissions. The countries cannot therefore create a model in which emissions are increased against far-reaching promises of future reductions. Reductions must be provided immediately. Nevertheless, I have to say that the government, against better knowledge, is doing the opposite, as we are doing, among other things. So the agricultural package. The Paris Agreement will probably enter into force in about a month's time, when a sufficient number of countries responsible for a sufficient share of the greenhouse emissions have ratified the agreement. However, the principle of no backsliding, which is the principle which is quite crucial in assessing the progress of the countries, does not come into force until 2021. I am well aware of that, but I think it is worrying, and it is to put it mildly; it is almost in Jutland that the government, since it has arrived and since it has signed the Paris Agreement, and at the same time that we are dealing with this very thing with Danish ratification of the Paris Agreement, is making a huge backsliding: the agricultural package, the looping of the coastal mills, the tax on electric cars, the abolition of the PSO fees, all this leads to an increase in CO2 from agriculture, the pollution of greenhouse gases, methane and nitrous oxide will increase. Instead of the 40% that the Danish Parliament is committed to as a reduction target in 2020, the forecast is approaching and that is in a reply from the Minister to me 31 per cent. in 2020, if we continue as we are now. It's after a year and a half with the Left at the helm. That's 3%. back, every six months the government has been in power. And I have calculated a little that if you continue that backward step, the Left can actually succeed in coming down to 0 per cent reduction of greenhouse gases in 5-6 years if no one stops the government. Now we hope that we will have elections before then. For an election will make Denmark still able to live up to our EU commitments and our commitments to the Climate Convention, and that is what we actually have to deliver on. I'm not saying all this, even though it may sound very polemical, only to bash the government, which is otherwise very tempting and very easy but actually to stress that more than ever there is a need for responsible governments. The Paris agreement could have flopped, but it could have been better. However, it has created a momentum which we have not seen before internationally and which would have failed if the agreement had been abandoned. And that is why Denmark and the Danish Government have a special obligation to keep that momentum.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013140000	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We welcome the next rapporteur and this is Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013140015	Thank you. As a conservative, the intergenerational contract means a lot to me. There is a line of responsibility from our dead ancestors to us who are on earth today and to the children born in the future. The generation contract is not such a buzzword that is invented by some smart advertising agency, no, it is conservative legacy formulated by Edmund Burke. The generation contract should permeate all the work we do here in the Folketing. It is with that in mind that we are struggling to keep the national debt down so that we do not pass on a bill to future generations, and that is with the idea that we are researching, developing and so on. Each generation has had its manhood test. Some have fought in wars for Danish independence, others have fought for growth, prosperity and the construction of the Danish welfare state. Every battle has been important, but no battles have been more important than the one our generation faces: the fight for the climate. More than 50 years ago, Conservative Finance Minister Poul Møller said that the major problems of the future were smoke, noise and crap, and he was right in many ways. That is why the Paris climate agreement was so important. We set ourselves a target: the temperature must not rise more than 2 degrees and preferably not more than 11⁄2 degrees. Targets are important, but action is more important. South Africa, which is hit hard by climate change, took the floor during the final debate in plenary and took the opportunity to quote Nelson Mandela. They said: When you have climbed a mountain, you find that there are more waiting ahead. And they were absolutely right. World leaders have not finished climbing mountains, in fact they have only just rounded the first hilltop. We are also rounding a hilltop here in the Folketing today with the ratification of the agreement. But that's the easy part of the walk. The hard part is still waiting for the part where priority is given to funding for a new green energy policy, for climate action and for green solutions at all. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013140236	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carsten Bach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013140243	Thank you. Thank you, too, for a passionate rapporteur's speech about generations and so on, and there was one thing that just flew in my ears. A few minutes ago, I had a dialogue with Mr. Christian Poll on Armageddon, and I would really like to continue it a little here with the rapporteur because, as I heard the rapporteur, she actually compared a scenario for the future and a climate crisis with the situation after previous world wars. I would like the rapporteur to put a little extra words on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013140320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013140322	What I said in my rapporteur's speech was that every generation has had its fight. There have been things that had to be fought for, that had to be built up, that had to change in the society of which you are a part. And my point was, in fact, the simple one, that a very, very important part for the generation we are part of is the fight for the climate, because we cannot just keep postponing and leaving it to some others in the expectation that they will have to deal with it. It will have consequences if we do not take responsibility now, because then we can leave an insurmountable task for future generations. So it is not to compare different events, but it is just to say that one should not underestimate how much responsibility our generation bears to act now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013140401	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013140405	Thank you. So what I hear the rapporteur say is that the structure after, for example, World War I and World War II are similar to what we are now facing in order to cope with an increase in temperature of 11⁄2-2 degrees. Is that what the rapporteur compares it to?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013140420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013140422	What I said in my rapporteur's speech and in my first reply, which I would like to repeat, was that every generation has had some struggles to fight, where it was crucial to stand together and act here and now. Because if you didn't act, you could leave the future generations with tasks that couldn't be solved. This has been the case in Denmark and in the history of the world. And I am well aware that the Liberal Alliance does not consider this challenge to be as great, but the Liberal Alliance just disagrees with most of the scientists who have expertise in this area, and fortunately also with the majority of the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013140457	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013140500	I have to say that the rapporteur is the bright green hope over there in the bourgeois block. It's kind of nice to have a light in that darkness. Now that the various countries have ratified the Paris Agreement, we are likely to have an average temperature increase of 3-31⁄2 degrees. Some of the predictions have been that we should at least be 2 degrees, some say we max. can withstand 11⁄2 degrees. Does the Conservative People's Party believe that we should aim to ensure that the temperature should not rise more than 11⁄2 degrees?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013140541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013140543	I can reveal that I recently visited one of the places in the world that is predicted not to be there the century out if the temperature is allowed to rise more than this one-and-a-half degree. It was on my honeymoon on the Maldives. I would be incredibly sorry if many of the little wonderful island states that exist could not exist in the future. That's when the prognosis says it's gonna be very, very difficult for them. That is why I think it is very reasonable that the agreement that was signed in Paris should aim at no more than one-and-a-half degrees. But that being said, we're having a hard enough time meeting those two degrees. But that doesn't change the fact that we really should go for the max. One and a half degrees.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013140623	Thank you to Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Then it's the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013140638	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteurs for the very sympathetic treatment of the proposal here on Denmark's ratification of the Paris Agreement, the climate agreement. I think it sends a strong Danish signal that such a broad circle of parties, indeed all the parties of the Folketing, can support ratification. That's great. It will also be good for Denmark internationally. We can then say that this is an historic moment, and it can also be said that the speeches of the rapporteurs with a little variation, that is something I must acknowledge, and express my support for the strategy that has been put in place. Even when we look into the great world, there is reason to rejoice. When we concluded the climate agreement back in December last year, probably not many people expected such rapid ratification of the agreement. Countries such as the United States, China and India have ratified, and the European Union has also ratified the agreement. Here, too, I would like to thank Parliament for its favourable support for ratification in the European Union. So one can say that we are well on the way forward, and I think there is reason to rejoice, even on a day like this. It is an agreement that gives Denmark great opportunities. We are in many ways a pioneering country in climate and energy. We must continue to be. When you look at what we have promised in terms of reductions in CO2 In general, when you look at area by area, you see that Denmark is at the forefront. Also when we look at the energy agreement of 2012 • e.g. in relation to how much renewable energy there will be in 2016 and up to 2020 we can see that we are, after all, well above what we did not agree, but which would be the consequence of the energy agreement of 2012. Denmark is in the middle of a green transition and the green transition will continue. I also agree with a number of the rapporteurs that this gives Denmark good opportunities for exports. We must do everything we can to support that. Both Pia Olsen Dyhr and Jens Joel have been involved in this area, partly in speeches and partly in questions to other rapporteurs here on the platform. I can say that this is an area in which we will do everything we possibly can. After all, the result of the climate agreement is that not USD 5 000 billion should be invested, but USD 13 500 billion up to 2030 if countries are to comply with the commitments made in relation to reducing emissions of CO2 This gives Denmark a unique opportunity. We really need to take advantage of this. That is also the reason why, in its draft Finance Act, the government is proposing to allocate additional money to an export strategy. It is, of course, for Danish companies to have the opportunity to play on that track. I do not believe that we can get a total of USD 13 500 billion, even if some people in this Chamber could imagine it. But if we could just get our fair share of it in relation to the competences we have in the energy field, then there will be Danish employment, Danish exports and Danish prosperity in continuing to invest in it. Thank you for the floor and thank you for your positive consideration of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013141050	There are some brief comments. The first is from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013141056	Thank you to the Minister for the fact that we are now ratifying the Paris Agreement. I was also hoping that we could do it as soon as possible in this parliamentary year, and that happens too. After all, it is not only Denmark that is ratifying, as the Minister also mentions. A great many countries are doing this. I would like to ask the Minister, just as I asked the rapporteur on the Left, who would not reply on behalf of the government, whether the government has considered developing an export strategy, looking at 15 strategic countries, where it would be obvious to dispose of some of the products we have developed over time in the area of energy efficiency and renewable energy, thereby also following up on their national climate plans • thus reviewing them very strategically and asking where it would be obvious for Denmark to export to. The reason why I am saying this is that I believe that green conversion creates jobs and that those jobs would not have been created in Denmark if we had not been a pioneer country. Now we must also use that pioneering position to create new markets once the Paris Agreement is ratified. That is why I would like to ask the Minister whether he, on behalf of the government, will nod to draw up such a strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013141204	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013141208	Thank you for the question. I am actually in favour of looking at this and it is in this direction that the government is working. With the financial bill we come up with 11 countries with which we cooperate with authority. This is, of course, a very concrete way of working, in which we in the countries are specifically helping to bring about green conversion in these countries. It is also something that creates Danish jobs and creates a market for Danish companies. Therefore, the idea that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr asks about here is not a stranger to me, so that we sit down and look at where Denmark has the greatest potential for selling Danish energy equipment and spreading the green solutions we know so well from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013141247	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013141250	Thank you for your answer. I am really glad that the government is going to do so. I think it is absolutely crucial that we have a strategic approach to our exports in the world and that we increase what we live on, namely green exports, increasingly. But technological development is going very fast and we can see that other countries are catching up; it is both in the area of renewable energy and other technologies. That is why I would like to ask the Minister what he is going to do to push for us to continue to be some of those who are leading the world so that, apart from the fact that we have a domestic market, research and innovation in this sector are also being targeted. It is a question of research funding, but it is also a question of achieving, for example, the objectives of research. looking at a supply strategy, ensuring that innovation is high on the agenda, otherwise you will not get the home market that is so crucial if we are to be able to export.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013141342	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013141346	Innovation must be high on the agenda, and it will also do so in the supply strategy. It is essential that supply companies continue to develop, and it is also essential that we continue to focus on research and development. This is also the reason why the government has joined Mission Innovation, where no less than 20 countries in the world leading the United States have committed themselves to doubling the amount spent on energy research by 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013141410	Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013141414	I very much agree with the Minister that it is positive that it is all the parties of the Folketing that are behind this ratification of the Paris Agreement, but I would like to ask the Minister what signal it sends that the Minister is both dropping his climate targets so shortly before the climate summit and that, while we are ratifying this agreement, we are going to drop the expansion of coastal wind turbines and even negotiate a 2025 plan that will increase CO2 What signal does the Minister think it sends to the rest of the world about our seriousness in the climate area?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013141452	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013141455	Thank you for the question. Wherever you as Danish Minister for Climate and Energy are in the world, there is a great deal of respect about Denmark and the way in which we have carried out the green transition. I can say that in all areas Denmark is a leading country, and we continue to be forward-looking. Just look at one thing: the share of renewable energy. The share of wind energy in the total Danish energy supply last year reached 42 per cent. We produced so much wind energy that we could cover 42 per cent. of consumption, and in relation to everything we have promised, including in EU contexts, with regard to CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20161013141538	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013141540	This is precisely because of an energy and climate policy that goes beyond decades. If it is also to be, as the Minister describes it, in the future, we will have to safeguard our leadership position. We need to be very aware of the fact that all other countries are now going into gear, so this is quite the wrong time to start stepping on the brakes to start adopting initiatives that will increase CO2 Does the Minister not agree that we also have to stick to our leadership position and expand it instead of dismantling it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013141625	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013141628	We need to hold on to the green lead position. In fact, I am very, very much in agreement with the questioner on this, but it is of course also crucial that we, whether in private households or in companies, are also able to finance the green transition. Unfortunately, I have to say that the bill for the green conversion has risen from 4 billion to 8 billion. kr., in relation to what the expectation was when we entered into the Energy Agreement in 2012. We also need to take that into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013141656	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013141700	Thank you. I would like to ask a few questions about some of the latest knowledge, because we know from several quarters, from climate scientists, that the rich countries have a special task here, and that we should in fact be even more ambitious than the objectives we have. Is the Minister for Climate Change adequately meeting the existing targets, or could the Minister agree that we became one of the countries pushing the EU to listen to climate scientists and set ourselves tougher targets? I can say that some of them today say that all OECD countries should go for zero consumption of fossil fuels by 2030. Will the Minister work to ensure that we listen to the latest climate research and tighten the targets so that we are absolutely sure of achieving what the Paris Agreement says?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013141756	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013141800	Thank you for the question. In any case, it is very wise to listen, including to experts, in this context. But it is also worth noting that Denmark, together with the rest of the European Union, is the rural area of the world that has undertaken the absolutely greatest reduction commitment at all. However, it is also crucial for Denmark and the European Union that there is continuous follow-up to the Paris Agreement, so that every five years you sit down and look at how far you have come and what opportunities there are for increasing the level of ambition.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013141830	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013141834	Yeah, but we have, for example. not gained a worse welfare. Of course you can discuss that, but we do have a high level of welfare and a well-functioning society, despite the fact that we have invested so heavily in renewable energy. After all, the Paris Agreement states that there must be no backsliding, so that, from the day the Minister was also in Paris to sign the agreement, we must not present political agreements which bring us back to a worse climate effort. Isn't it a good strategy to keep the tab high, also because for example. Danish business would like to have good framework conditions, so you know that you can bet on investing in the green and making a good business out of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013141918	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013141921	I agree with the questioner that we must keep the tab very high, but it is also crucial that we do not hold it so high that we cannot at the same time reach the ground. It must also be borne in mind that there are costs associated with the green transition, and for us it is vital that economic growth can go hand in hand with the green transition. In fact, we have shown for more than a 40-year period and with broad support in the Folketing that we in Denmark have been able to have an unchanged consumption of energy, despite the fact that during the same period there has been a growth in the economy of up to 100 per cent, and we must of course continue that strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013141950	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013141954	After all, the minister says that the climate agreement offers Denmark some unique opportunities. I kind of agree with that. The Energy Committee was recently in Germany, and it had therefore been noticed that a certain shift had taken place in Denmark, that ambition had been turned down, that we had got a black government. When you look at what is really happening, we have a financial bill that cuts EUDP funds. The minister wants to cancel the coastal mills. It's a little hard to see what the minister can take out into the world and flag with. In a few years' time it will be one cut after another. So I do not really see that there is a team in it that the Minister is proposing to take advantage of the unique opportunities that Denmark has by continuing its technology energy exports. It will be exciting to follow what the next figures show, but there has been a slight drop in exports which would otherwise be increasing if it were the case that we made the best use of our opportunities. I would like to hear from the Minister whether it would not be reasonable to increase EUDP funds again so that we can get more development going.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013142101	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013142104	Now, as a minister, I have chosen to talk Denmark up and not Denmark down. When you are out in the big world, you find that there is very, very much respect for Denmark and the way this government, but also previous governments, has taken action in the green area. In relation to the EUDP, it is the government's clear expectation that when the energy reserves are distributed and additional money is, hopefully, found, there will be more resources for the EUDP in 2017, than there have been in 2016. And it is also the government's goal, by 2020, to double the funds we use for the EUDP in relation to what has been spent in 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013142148	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013142151	Well, I just have to say that what the government is running ahead with is the dismantling of the green transition, and the world around us is going to discover that at some point. The Minister argued that the green conversion had become more expensive, but it is not enough just to look at the PSO costs. You have to take the electricity price and add the PSO and then see what that is. And wind power has helped us to get historically low electricity prices. I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister considers that the energy conciliation still exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013142222	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013142232	One more time, if the energy settlement still exists? The energy agreement still exists. There can be no doubt about that. It is, of course, a settlement that has been agreed here in the Folketing, and until that happens, the conciliation does of course exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013142239	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013142245	Thank you, Minister. I believe, like others, that it is relatively obvious that there is quite a difference between what the Minister says about the importance of living up to the Paris Agreement and what the government actually does. I would like to dive into a specific point, because the Minister keeps saying that it must pay off, that there must also be an economy in it and all these things. And then the minister says that by 2020 the government thinks we need 580 million. kr. on EUDP. I have to assume that it is because the Minister thinks that money is coming back in. So the first question is just to get the Minister to confirm the assessment that has been made that EUDP funds are actually some money coming back in. And when the Minister has confirmed this and, incidentally, has promised that by 2020 we will have to invest massively in this area because it is a good investment, because it gives us a new market, because it gives us jobs, then I just want to ask why we have to wait until 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013142340	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013142344	Thank you for the question. We should not wait until 2020. It is my expectation that next year, too, more money will come to the EUDP than there is this year. And I can confirm the question that EUDP and energy research are at all a good and sensible way of investing money. The money comes back many times. In the first period alone, the money actually comes 2.7 times again, according to the study we have just carried out, by COWI. This is a good way of investing, it is also a good way of creating jobs, and it gives small and medium-sized enterprises the opportunity to research and innovate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013142422	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013142425	But that is a very clear speech: it is a very good way of investing, it provides jobs and export earnings. But then there must be at least two questions to ask: why does the government think it was a good idea to remove 53 per cent, that is, over half of the funds last year? I have asked the Minister in writing, but now I can also do so in the Chamber: when does the Minister expect, when does the Minister think that we should be at the same level as when the government took over the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013142457	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013142500	Thank you for the question. The fact is that we took over a Treasury and a Finance Act, where there was a gap to be patched up, and here everyone had to bear. That was why the energy sector was also cut back. However, it is the government's clear ambition that we must increase the resources we spend on energy research, including on EUDP.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013142524	Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013142533	After all, the Minister would very much like to give the impression that the bill has gone crazy, that everything has become much, much more expensive since four years ago we reached an historic settlement which has helped create tens of thousands of jobs, not least in rural areas. Therefore, it may be appropriate to just ask the Minister to confirm the following two figures: The expansion with wind has today turned out to be approx. 30% cheaper than we expected, when we made our energy reconciliation in 2012 and here, of course, I am thinking of the bid that has been made on the coastal mills • a drop of 30%, because the technologies are improving so quickly. It would be nice if the Minister would confirm that it has actually become cheaper than we expected. The second thing I would like to ask the Minister to confirm is that the electricity price we assumed, including the PSO, has fallen significantly compared to what we expected in 2012. I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm these two questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013142637	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013142641	It is true that building wind has become cheaper, most recently with the supply of coastal wind turbines, where the price was 47.5 cents; the expectation was that the price would be higher, but the challenge is that the share of aid has increased. When we entered into the energy agreement back in 2012, there was an expectation that the electricity price would be much higher than it is today. And the lower the electricity price, the more support is needed. When we entered into the agreement in 2012, it was expected that the total costs over the entire period of support would be 1.9 billion. kr.; that bill now stands at 3.6 billion. kr. The challenge with the PRS tax is, of course, that it is a tax which only companies in Denmark pay, the tax is also paid in a few other countries, but it is so that a large number of companies in Denmark are in a situation where they compete with companies in other countries which are not similarly subject to a PRS tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013142739	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013142743	So I am trying to ask the Minister again: has the price of electricity in Denmark including PSP fallen or increased since we entered into the settlement in 2012? And I could even ask a little more toxic: has it increased or decreased relative to other countries of the European Union? In other words, has it turned out to be a fantastic investment for Denmark actually to get more renewable energy in, or has it turned out to be an additional cost when we look at the electricity price including PSO overall?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013142816	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013142818	I am well aware of where the questioner would like to go. I can confirm that it has fallen. But the challenge is that in the countries with which we compete, the price has fallen even more. This means that in the other countries companies have benefited much more from the low electricity price than companies have received in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013142837	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013142858	The debate is open. The first rapporteur to speak is Mr Beazley. Erik Christensen from Social Democracy. He doesn't want that. - Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party the word? He doesn't. - Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Jacob Jensen the word? No. - Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Pelle Dragsted the word? He doesn't. - Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Ole Birk Olesen the word? Neither do I. Does Mrs Josephine Fock wish to speak from the alternative? She doesn't. - Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Martin Lidegaard from the Radical Left? No. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen who has asked to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013143030	Thank you. It is often the case that we do not take the floor for this type of first reading, but I will do so briefly here. I think it is very good to mention just what my party, the SF, thinks about the proposals as they stand. They can change a lot, can't they? We are opposed to L 2, and thus also to L 3, in the present form. Then there will be negotiations. We are in the SF for some kind of expenditure ceilings for among others. to avoid the budgetary slippages that we saw under the bourgeois government in the '00s. However, we are opposed to the growth of public consumption, which is as low as in the present proposal. Such low growth also means that in our view the proposal is irresponsible. Several economists, and most recently the wise men, have warned against this, saying that if you assume a low growth in public spending, there is a great risk of • or perhaps a chance of it not keeping in practice. This is where growth is expected to be lower than that of demography, for example. 21,000 more elderly people from 2019 to 2020 alone demand this, and we believe that this is irresponsibly low. From the SF's point of view, we have presented a 2025 plan that allows for a higher growth in public consumption with prevention and investment in a good start in life for all children. When growth is so low, it is also linked to the fact that the government has already paid 4 billion. kr. in totally unnecessary tax cuts to the best-off. And we prefer to give priority to care for the elderly, children and other welfare, and this is, of course, an entirely legitimate political disagreement. But I also think it is fine to take that discussion, even if it is something that many may sound very technical, namely about expenditure ceilings, because it is precisely a matter of priority. It is not an expression that we as such are opposed to expenditure ceilings, but it can be about how much revenue and therefore also expenditure is available.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013143239	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. Are there any other rapporteurs who would like to speak? That is not the case, and we shall move on to the Minister of Finance, who will also give up. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals be referred to the Financial Committee. If no one objects to this, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013143307	The debate is open. I do not see a Social Democratic rapporteur, so we go to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013143332	After all, L 31 is a bill on grants to the Faroe Islands' Home Rule Government, and I would like to start by saying that we in the Danish People's Party support the bill if there is a majority in favour of it in the Faroe Islands. I understand that this has been put forward for the first reading in the Latting today, so we are already well on the way. L 31 is for the years 2017, 2018 and 2019 with a fixed amount of 641.8 million. kr. per Year and with a small orientation for 2016. Where it was previously a 1-year agreement, in 2013 it became a 3-year agreement between the Government and the Home Government of the Faroe Islands for the years 2014-2016, which expires shortly and which therefore needs to be re-examined. The fact that it is a multi-annual agreement, Dansk Folkeparti also wants to support, as it means that both the Faroe Islands and Denmark know what the amount is forward-looking. The Faroe Islands can therefore put a budget, and Denmark can get the right amount set off in the Finance Act. Although there should be no money between friends, I welcome the agreement and see it as another sign of cohesion in the Kingdom community, among other things. The Danish People's Party has the utmost confidence that the block grant will also be used in the best way for the benefit of the Faroese community and population. I am not going to prolong the debate further, but I just welcome the fact that the subsidy is in a law so that we always have the opportunity to discuss whether the amount of the subsidy is the right one, whether it should be put up in times of crisis and down when it is beneficial to everyone, as it has been since 1948. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013143523	No one has asked for brief comments. We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Thomas Danielsen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013143532	Thank you for that, President. I have no further technical comments to make than those made, sir. Henrik Brodersen has already explained, and as the bill has been implemented on the basis of the agreement reached between the government and the national government in April 2016, the Left naturally fully supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013143553	No one has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Christian Juhl for Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013143603	Thank you. Of course, we can back the bill. However, I would like to hear from the Minister for Finance whether he is now sure that he does not pay too much to the Faroese. I remember that, well over a year ago, the Faroese asked not to have their subsidies indexed, so I would like to hear from the Minister whether we can be sure that it has not been indexed in 2016. There is no need to rustle with the state's money if it is the case that the Faroe Islands do not want to get the money. But otherwise I can say that I think that from 2017 you should have a talk with the Faroese and find out what rate they want the money in so that there is full clarity about things. I think it is a sign of strength that they say: we only want the money we need and we would like to work systematically towards not getting subsidies from Denmark. I see this as a step towards greater autonomy, and I can only welcome that. Everyone should have the right to do so, who wants to do so and who has the capacity to do so. We can vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013143714	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013143724	Thank you. Thank you also for a good trip to the members present who, like myself, took part in a committee trip to the Faroe Islands this August. Not least, thank you to the two Faroese members for a pleasant hostage. It was a committee trip in which I think it was quite clear that the Faroese people are in fact a people who can and will be more self-sufficient. And we in the Liberal Alliance also believe that when the Faroe Islands, and for that matter also Greenland, move towards greater independence, then they should also bear the responsibility for their finances and not be financed by block grants. That is why we also support the principles that have been put forward to maintain the block subsidy, which was probably also the basis for the initial agreement on block subsidies with the Faroe Islands. And we also note, as others have done, that this is in line with the request that has come from the Faroe Islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013143824	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. We move on to the next rapporteur in the rapporteur's series, and that is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013143833	Thank you. On behalf of Mr. Roger Matthisen, who is not here today, I would just like to say that in the alternative, we are in favour of the draft law. We are in favour of setting the block subsidy again nominally, as it is a strong signal to send out that we are working towards independence. We also support the fact that the political agreement has been reached in such a way that, if the political situation changes in the Faroe Islands, the agreement can be renegotiated before 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013143914	No one has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Martin Lidegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013143922	On the radical side, too, we can support the bill. First of all, this is because we are wholeheartedly in favour of the Commonwealth and, therefore, also of the economic mutual obligations inherent in the whole structure that we have and, of course, we also respect the Faroese people's desire for progressively greater economic autonomy and therefore the nominal principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013143949	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF who is not present. So we move on to the next rapporteur in the rapporteur's line, Mr President. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013144009	Of course, the Conservative People's Party can also support the bill on the annual block grant for the Faroe Islands. I would just like to make a few comments on that. In addition to the technicalities of the draft law, which is in order, I would like to say that we believe that this block grant is small change in relation to how much the rich community means to us. On the Danish side, there can be a lot of focus on this block grant, and I know it causes great irritation in the Faroe Islands, when you hear Danes refer to the block grant, as if it were a very big case, which should make the Faroe Islands run around in such a way in great gratitude to Denmark. I do not think that this should be done in the Faroe Islands. When you compare with, for example, the size of the compensation we have in Denmark, I think it is perfectly natural that we also have an equalisation in relation to the Faroe Islands. We have the principle of solidarity that we think it is fair enough that those parts of our country that have large incomes share them with those parts of our country that have less income. It should also apply within the Kingdom Community that when Denmark has more revenue than it has in the Faroe Islands, it is perfectly natural that we also distribute it. After all, you can compare with the size of the block grant received by the City of Copenhagen, which is much larger than the amount received by the Faroe Islands. Usually not many Danes see any problem in that. There are also not many Danes who see a problem in the fact that there is huge compensation for the poor municipalities in Denmark. In parentheses, I think, personally, that the compensation is just as severe enough with a marginal tax rate of 92 per cent. But in general we are in favour of distributing our wealth, and this also applies to the Faroe Islands. So it's perfectly natural that there's this block supplement. It's only fair and fair. This 641 million. kr. must be regarded as a rather small amount. That is why we think it is quite natural that we also agree that it should continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013144232	One person has asked for a brief comment. It's sir. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013144243	Thank you. Well, I was very pleased with the rapporteur's speech, because it was, after all, about solidarity, and it was about sharing the prosperity that exists within the Kingdom community. I would just like to know how far the rapporteur's sympathy is for the distribution of solidarity. Is this also something that should apply in society, in the individual society? We have, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have just received evidence from the economic wise men that they 10 per cent. The richest in this country has just gotten richer in the last 25 years, while the 10%. The poorest have become poorer. Then the rapporteur's commitment to solidarity extends to the extent that he also believes that the 10%. The richest in this country should deliver a greater share of their wealth to the 10%. The poorest?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013144325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013144330	No, it doesn't. I do not think we should have higher taxation on the 10%. the richest in Denmark than we already have. I think it will be Enhedslisten aware that it is not conservative policy that we should have, for example, millionaire taxes or higher top taxes or something like that. On the contrary, we would like to abolish this kind of thing. So no, my solidarity does not go that far. However, our solidarity with the Kingdom community and with the Faroe Islands goes a very, very long way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013144359	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013144400	Well, then I just thank you for the unusually clear answer that makes me feel at home again.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013144405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013144407	Sir. Finn Sørensen is very welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013144409	No one else has asked for brief comments. So we thank the rapporteur. Since the previous paragraphs, paragraphs 6 and 7, were exceptionally strong, we allow the Social Democrat rapporteur to speak now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013144428	Thank you, Mr President, for your flexibility. When the Faroes Committee was travelling to the Faroe Islands here a few months ago, it was very clear from the Chairman of the Latting, Aksel Johannesen, that it was the Faroe Islands' opinion that it was wanted that the state subsidy should slowly, but surely, become smaller and smaller every year. It is therefore very good that we can stand here today and say that the Faroese themselves have wanted to freeze or retain the same amount as was given last year, and they want to keep that amount for the next four years. So, of course, from the Socialist side, we can support the return of the Faroese to a state subsidy of 641.8 million. kr. There is no doubt that the money makes really good in the Faroe Islands, even if you can say that it is very good for the Faroese people in many ways. The Faroe Islands are in clear commercial momentum, and it was a pleasure to experience our journey up there. So full support from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013144548	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Magni Arge from Tjóðveldi. I hope I have said it correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013144601	Thank you. The proposal we are debating, L 31, is to freeze the subsidy to the Faroe Islands at a nominal value of 641.8 million. kr. in the years from 2016 up to and including 2019. This is the result of both a negotiation between the coalition parties in the Faroe Islands and then negotiation between the Faroese Government and the Ministry of Finance in Copenhagen. It is in the interests of most of the Faroe Islands that we strengthen our economy so that our welfare is fully paid with our own money. It animates a responsible economic policy both in the short and in the long term, and it reduces the risk that the economy is distorted by revenue without any productive substance. The freezing of the block grant is not only a step in the right direction, but also quite natural, bearing in mind that our average value creation is in line with the Danish one and may soon exceed it. Every country should endeavour to eliminate dependence and external subsidies and create a self-sustaining economy. In the Faroe Islands we are approaching this reality as the Faroese taxpayers are now paying close to 90 per cent. of the Faroese Finance Act and the block grant amount to just over 10%. In Danish terms, however, this means that the grant to the Faroe Islands is less than one thousandth of the Danish Finance Act. I think that we in the Faroe Islands should speed up the reduction of the block subsidy. However, as I said, there must also be a political consensus from home. However, I also believe that Denmark can actively contribute to a faster transition to a fully sustainable economy in the Faroe Islands if a more pragmatic approach to foreign policy and trade policy is taken. Here it is a question of loosening the constraints of foreign policy law and creating the best conditions for access to markets and resources, so that we can continue to keep the Faroe Islands competitive in relation to our competitors. We have recently had two significant examples of Denmark having delegated trade policy mandates to the EU to conclude agreements that seem to strengthen Danish industry and value creation, but leave the Faroe Islands and no doubt Greenland in a weakened competitive situation in terms of trade with Denmark and with the EU. One is about the free trade agreement with Canada, which we have discussed this morning, and the other is about the aviation agreement between the European Union and the United States. In the Canadian context, Canadians are now offering better access to exports of fish to Denmark and the EU than the Faroe Islands have. And in the mandate to the aviation agreement, the Faroe Islands and Greenland have been excluded from the agreement, which has been left to the EU to negotiate. However, the Danish side has instructed dealers to prepare the way for later inclusion of Norway and Iceland, but not the Faroe Islands and Greenland. Until trade policy chains have been loosened, Denmark should at least make sure that the other parts of the so-called Kingdom community are not made worse when Denmark enters into agreements. It should also be in Denmark's interest for the Faroe Islands to have the necessary opportunities to develop a strong economy, for the sole reason that Denmark benefits from the Faroese purchasing power through a trade surplus of 1.2 billion. kr. in respect of the Faroe Islands, in particular: based on the fact that Denmark and the EU have a full free trade agreement with the Faroe Islands, while the Faroe Islands have a limited trade agreement with Denmark and the EU. So just to the remark made by Rasmus Jarlov that the 642 million. DKK, which Denmark pays to the Faroe Islands in grants, is not a large amount: I agree that it is a relatively small amount in a Faroese context, but it is actually quite significant in a Danish context at the nearest pepper nuts, because it is less than 1 thousand. It is certainly inexpensive that sovereignty over a country with 300,000 square kilometres of land and sea area has been taken over for such a small amount of money. Moreover, I shall report that I shall probably be voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013145047	One person has asked for a brief comment. It's sir. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013145054	I would just like to point out that Denmark has not taken over the sovereignty of the Faroe Islands. First of all, it is something we have always been together about, and secondly, I always regret when Mr. Magni Arge and other Faroese nationalists make it sound as if Denmark is in charge of the Faroe Islands. We don't. We have a community in which we share and on an equal footing. It is very important that this is also perceived in the Faroe Islands. There is no intention on the Danish side that we should decide over the Faroe Islands, but we are very happy about the community we have together. We appreciate it incredibly, but it is not the case that Denmark wants to control the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013145144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013145145	I can only note, I would say to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, that I know you want to see this as an equal fellowship, but we know very well that this is not about an equal community. The Faroe Islands do not have access to all the areas which Denmark has sovereignly in Danish politics and through the role of the Danish Parliament in defence policy, in foreign policy contexts, in aviation policy contexts etc. So there is no question of equality. It is a matter of Denmark's sovereignty and, according to your own state-law experts, part of the powers have been delegated to a so-called home government in the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013145229	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Rasmus Jarlov a follow-up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013145234	Well, that's because sir... Magni Arge, for example, considers the Danish Parliament to be something that is exclusively Danish, even if he is in it himself, and not something that the Faroe Islands are actually also in it. This is where decisions like this are made, and Mr. Magni Arge vote on a completely equal footing with all of us. I'm Chairman of the Defence Committee. You are very, very welcome to be more active also in defence policy. I also hope, when we get the defence settlement next year, that we can get the Faroese representatives with us. In fact, I think it would be very, very sensible for us to become more involved in the areas we share in the Kingdom community, so that we do not sit here with this idea that there are Danes sitting and deciding, and then the Faroese suffers. I would like us to use the opportunities we have here in the Folketing to involve the Faroese representatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013145328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013145329	I'll sign for that. In fact, I think that this will be a step on the way to better cooperation. I believe that we can have quite a fine cooperation between Denmark and the Faroe Islands, which is very rewarding and which extends far into the future when we have ensured that we have an equal relationship. I strongly support the fact that we are looking at a kind of federal middle solution before we go the full sovereign path, but that we keep in mind that we must have close cooperation between ourselves. The present system is not enough. I just have to tell you the truth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013145409	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Sjúrður Skaale for Javnaðarflokkurin.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013145417	Thank you, sir. President. I had written such a fine speech with lots of numbers and percentages etc., and when I had to write out, the printer didn't work. So it's somewhere in cyberspace. It doesn't matter. Then I'll have to improvise. I think that when I left this morning for Denmark, the bus went to the airport in Tórshavn at noon. 6.50, some school kids stood up to me and took the school bus. When I was a boy, there was no free bus service in Tórshavn, as there is today. That's when we went to school. It took 15-20 minutes. You went to school when you went to school. Then you left. Now they're waiting for the bus. The bus is free or tax-financed. And then they wait for the bus, and sometimes they wait 20 minutes on the bus, which leads them along a stretch as it takes 20 minutes to walk. When you get something for free, you stop doing it yourself. Then I came to Copenhagen Airport in Kastrup. I walked along the long hallways, and there are such rolling tapes on the hallways. You know that? I went towards the rolling tape and thought that it says a lot about the proposal that is on today's agenda: everyone uses the rolling tape, they go to the rolling tape, steps up on it and stops. When you're taken out for free, you don't use your legs anymore. Then you stop. It also says a lot about the proposal we have today, because when you get benefits even and free without effort, you stop doing things yourself. That is the idea behind the freezing that is on the agenda: you get out of it when you shorten the rolling tape a little. The rollingmill was shortened by one third in 2002, and it will be shortened every day as long as the freeze is in place. At home with myself in Tórshavn there are two beach injuries that come every year. In winter they are in Africa, and then they return to the Faroe Islands in summer. They come directly on our balcony, and they sit on our balcony every single day every summer. They've been doing that for the last 10 years. Actually, it's the second generation that's there now. We give them cheese, so that's why they're there. They are very welcome. It's like some kind of pet. But sometimes I wonder if they are even able to find earthworms themselves eventually, because we give them everything. They're just waiting. When we're away in the summer, they're still standing on our balcony waiting for somebody to give them cheese. They don't get any cheese. That is also what happens when you get things without effort. Then you just wait for something to come, and if nothing comes, you don't get anything to eat. That's the idea behind this freeze. We need to get out of the situation where we get things without effort. Since block support was cut by one third to 620 million. kr. in 2002, we have had an explosive growth in the economy of the Faroe Islands. It's never been bigger. GDP now stands at 18 billion. kr., and the 640 million. kr. In block grants, of course, make a difference to the revenue side of the Finance Act, but that is only barely 4%. of GDP in the Faroe Islands. In fact, GDP is, as Mr. Magni Arge mentioned as much as the Danish pr. for the first time ever. Of course, it's with the block grant. This does not mean that everything is good in the Faroese economy. There's pressure on house prices because there's a transfer. There is pressure on wages and, even though all the economic conditions are currently in line with oil prices, interest rates, fishing and fish prices, we have just the same balance in the budget, which is far from good enough. But all these challenges are not solved with more subsidies. They are solved by renouncing and doing something at home. Then I have a little to say about how much 640 million. kr. Is. That's very little. But the problem is that it is very political in the Faroe Islands. There are people who go to the polls: Vote for us, so we have to make sure that we get the money from Denmark vote for the others, then we lose the money from Denmark. This means that the political focus shifts to the question of what we can get out of the Danes instead of what we can do ourselves. I think it would be much healthier for the Kingdom community if we had joint projects instead of grants. As I have also talked to the Minister of Finance about before: if Denmark and the Faroe Islands jointly finance joint projects, it gives a healthy community, a better community than if one party receives money while the other party provides. It's very political at both ends. So, with these few improvised words, I would like to say that I support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013145900	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. Then we'll go over to mr. Karsten Hønge, who has also been hit by the fact that we were very quick with the previous points, so of course we take Mr Hønge. Karsten Hønge's rapporteur speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013145921	I regret that we had miscalculated how long it took to get through the previous points. The Community between the Faroe Islands and Denmark means, among other things, that a block grant is paid by Denmark, and then the amount can always be discussed, but the most important thing for us is that a common understanding has been achieved. I understand very well, sir. Sjúrður Skaale's very fine imagery and noted in particular that Mr. Sjúrður Skaale stressed that the positive focus should be on what we can do together between our countries. SF supports the Faroe Islands' path to increasing self-determination, and we welcome the economic progress in the Faroe Islands. Along the way, we must have a trusting and close cooperation. It still involves a block grant, and SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013150026	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. Then we move on to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013150036	Thank you to the rapporteurs for their contributions and thank you for the broad support for the draft law. As the debate has also shown, this is a proposal based on an agreement between the government and the national government, where there is agreement on the grant from 2016 to 2019 as well. Sir. Christian Juhl raised a question. In a letter from the Ministry of Finance to the Faroes Committee on 9 October, we referred to the fact that the Home Government of the Faroe Islands has requested that the block grant for 2016 is without PL regulation, so in 2016 it is of the same size as in 2015. We informed the Faroe Islands via my Faroese colleague that we could respond to that request and that we would make a text comment on the amendment to the Finance Act. As I informed the Faroes Committee by letter dated 2 February 2016, there has been an error on the part of the Ministry of Finance. The signature of the text, which was promised, was not made in the context of the Finance Act 2016 and, on that basis, the grant for 2016 is regulated by this bill in accordance with the agreement concluded with the national government. I am, of course, ready to answer any questions that may be raised during the committee's reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013150225	There is one person who has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013150229	I can well imagine how sorry it would be for a finance minister to pay too much money out. But what was the reason for this? Because when you decide something in such a large and well-functioning ministry, there has to be a special reason why it's gone at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013150253	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013150254	I can only say that it was a mistake and it was not a planned mistake. So a mistake is a mistake, and I apologize for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013150302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013150304	[Sound emission]... also quite sure that we cannot accuse the Minister of planning too much consumption I am quite sure of that. I am glad that it has been regulated.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013150313	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013150315	We must abide by the agreements we make.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013150319	Then no one else has asked to speak and we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Faroes Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013150335	The debate is open, and I give the floor to Mr Seligman. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013150352	Today we are dealing with a relatively technical draft law on the rights of various groups of civil servants. These include the right to an on-call salary, the basis for calculating early retirement pensions and the right to an indemnification pension for seconded officials. I do not want to go into detail here, but immediately it seems like a clean-up in the legislation that does not put civil servants at a disadvantage, on the contrary. Nor do the hearings offer anything surprising. Basically, therefore, it seems to be sensible measures taken by the government here, and the Social Democratic Party can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013150431	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013150439	Thank you for that, President. This is a draft law that we in the Danish People's Party regard as such a draft draft law for the collection of technical corrections, corrections of consequences due to a ruling by the European Court of Justice, Toftgaard, which means that if you as an official have reached retirement age and your position is terminated, you have to have available pay. This has not been achieved so far, but it must be done when you are made redundant, even if it is done in the context of a reduction in employment when you reach retirement age. That is the change here. The early retirement allowance also has effect for officials born on or after 1 January 1959 who resign on 1 January 2019. It is also a consequence of collective bargaining where it is addressed. The last thing that is important is that officials who are recognised under the Social Insurance Act but who have only received a decision after 4 April 2014 and have thus only been awarded it thereafter are entitled to an injury pension. These are some proposals, some amendments which one might say should have been introduced from the beginning, and the Danish People's Party can of course support that it is addressed to.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013150623	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr. Hans Andersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013150630	Thank you. The previous rapporteurs have, of course, explained very well the three elements of this draft law. They are all about adjustments to legislation already in force, which in three different ways ensure better conditions for citizens. One element is an adjustment under an EU judgment. The second element is an adjustment of the legislation, which will thus be brought into line with an agreement in the collective bargaining process. And the third element is a change in legislation so that it is brought into line with the veteran law which a majority of Parliament's parties are behind. So the Left would like to recommend this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013150725	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank Mr. Hans Andersen. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013150738	Thank you. The previous rapporteurs have explained very well the content of the draft law, and since we may well have an objective to streamline the work of the Danish Parliament, I would just like to say that Enhedslisten supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013150756	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013150814	Thank you. I don't want to say much. The draft law contains three elements, and the last two elements are about amending the civil servant pension law on the calculation of early retirement pensions in order to bring the law into line with the collective agreements. We can in fact support this and bring the civil servant law into line with the veteran law, and we can also support that. We are concerned about the first part of the draft law, which deals with abolishing the part of Danish legislation which today says that if you are an official, you are entitled to an on-call salary for three years after dismissal, unless you reach retirement age. That rule is abolished on the basis of an EU judgment. I have to say that we have to criticise a little, because we think it was a sensible rule. In other words, once you have reached retirement age, you should not be able to obtain an available salary. So the European Union has said that we must not decide for ourselves here in Denmark, and we think that this is discreditable. This does not mean that we do not support the bill in its entirety, because we do, but we have felt the need to raise a flag here. As I said, we do not think it is right for the European Union to interfere in such an area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013150952	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr. Torsten Gejl for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013151015	Thank you. After all, in this draft law it is a question of incorporating an EU judgment and the consequences of an agreement at least in the first two points. We think that they are giving themselves a great deal of thought in this regard. The last point concerns a change in the veteran law. There is a single hearing answer which questions whether veterans are placed at a disadvantage compared with other officials in the transition to an injury pension. We now think that the Ministry responds very well to this in the consultation note, but that is exactly the thing we will be looking at properly in the future work. But I do not think it will stop us from supporting the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013151105	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. And either Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen has become very manly to look at, or it is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, who has taken on the role of rapporteur for the Radicals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013151118	Thank you. I can confirm it is. I should just like to draw your attention to the fact that there is no need to repeat what the content of the draft law is ■ that, for the reasons mentioned by the others, we find all three adjustments appropriate and can therefore also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013151137	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge from SF as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013151146	Yes, it may not be the most spectacular bill of the year, but it does affect some officials. SF believes that these are three excellent improvements, which is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013151159	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we go to the rapporteur of the Conservatives who is not here, as far as I can see. So we move on to the finance minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013151215	After all, I have noted with satisfaction that the draft law has been approved, and with that remark I would like to thank you for the positive reception of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013151234	No one has asked for brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013151252	The debate is open, and we shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Beazley. Daniel Toft Jakobsen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013151317	Thank you for that, President. The draft law here is the implementation of two political agreements concluded in the spring, on the one hand, the agreement of 18 March to strengthen the quality of the free primary schools and, on the other hand, the sub-agreement of 10 May, which forms part of the overall package on radicalisation and religious preachers, etc. The Social Democratic Party has signed the first agreement and is a party to the second agreement and therefore, of course, supports this bill. We believe that there is a need to strengthen the impartiality of general supervision of private and free schools. That is why we welcome the stricter requirements that will apply in the future in relation to whom the parent company of a given free school can choose as a supervisor. We also think that openness and transparency about the financial donations that a free school may receive are important. The new rules ensure that the supervisor and everyone else are easily aware of any donations, including donations of more than DKK 20,000. and the specific information on each donation. In addition, the enhanced supervision will be strengthened, i.e. the supervision that the Ministry can implement, if there is doubt, on the basis of general supervision, about whether a given free school meets the requirements of the Free School Act. In these cases, in future, the Ministry will participate as an observer at the school's board meetings, as well as supervisory practices will be changed in order to expand the possibilities of conducting interviews with the students and the use of unannounced supervision visits. Finally, it is now explicitly written into the Free School Act that free schools should develop and strengthen the democratic education of pupils. I think it is important to emphasise, as the comments and consultation notes also show, that the intention is not to restrict the freedom of free schools to run schools on a certain attitude-based basis. Democratic education is not, of course, about the fact that one should mean something quite specific in all kinds of areas or that one should have a certain pedagogy. On the contrary, democratic education is about respecting freedom of diversity, freedom of spirit, whether you like it or not, and fighting not only for your own freedom but also for the freedom of the others, across political, religious and all sorts of other differences. The free schools will still have the freedom to run school on an attitude-based basis, and as the comments also state, also to seek to influence their pupils towards this basis. However, it is clarified and made clear that it must be done in a way that respects those who have different attitudes and views of life than oneself and, in general, respect for the diversity of views and beliefs that characterise a democratic society. Democratic education is, in many ways, a prerequisite for the Danish tradition of freedom which free schools themselves enjoy, and we should all be involved in safeguarding that tradition of freedom, and so I see that far, by far, most free schools do. With this amendment, we are making it even more clear that we expect free schools to contribute to democratic education and, at the same time, we are strengthening the supervision that this is actually what is happening in the various free and private schools. As I said, social democracy supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013151629	One person has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013151634	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he can explain what specific supervisory cases form the basis of this desire for closer supervision in the free schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013151653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013151656	I don't know all the supervisory cases that have been in recent years. However, as I understand it, there have been a number of cases concerning the requirement to measure up to primary education. Then there is another demand, which is about freedom and the rule of the people, and I know there have not been so many cases which have resulted in an injunction, but, as I understand it, there have been a few. For us, it is simply important that the free schools contribute to the tradition of freedom of which they themselves are a product, that is to say, democratic education and the tradition of freedom, forward-looking. And that's why we support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013151736	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013151738	Then I can lift the veil that there are two cases where this demand for freedom and popular rule has been involved in the assessment of the withdrawal of subsidies, but it has not been the sole cause of this, and it was a Christian and a Muslim free school respectively, i.e. two cases from 2000 to 2015. Then you might ask yourself whether this gives rise to regulation of the law. I'd like to ask another question. The rapporteur said that it is important for the Socialists to support the fact that this enhanced supervision contributes to democratic formation. What the text says is that it must strengthen democratic formation. Does the rapporteur see a difference in words between contributing to democratic formation and strengthening democratic formation?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013151820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013151822	I believe that what is quite clearly stated in the legislative proposal before us is that the free schools should strengthen and develop the democratic education of pupils, and I think that is a reasonable requirement for free schools. As I have said, the free schools are a product of this tradition of freedom, and in many ways they are also a fine representative of that tradition of freedom, which is why I think it is fair to say to the free schools that they must stand where they want to, but there are some basic democratic rules that must be respected, and they must also teach their pupils to keep to the future. It has also been stated in the law so far that the free schools must strengthen and develop pupils' understanding and respect for fundamental freedoms, and that is where I think that democratic education is a clarification of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013151918	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013151929	Thank you. The bill is a implementation of the agreement of 10 May 2016 on free schools, which forms part of a comprehensive package to deal with those parts of the Muslim environments that seek to undermine Danish laws and values and which support parallel legal perceptions and parallel legal systems in Denmark. The parties behind the agreement agree that state supervision of free primary schools should be further strengthened. After all, it was intended to be strengthened, but now there is something extra on top. It is suggested that the law lays down that the free primary schools should, according to their purpose and throughout their activities, strengthen the democratic education of pupils and, at the very least, prepare them to live in the Danish people's government. It will be possible for the Ministry, as an observer in the context of enhanced supervision, to participate in the school's board meetings, general meetings and parent meetings. It will also be possible to go in and talk to the students without the presence of teachers or staff at the school. We think that is an excellent step to take. Of course, this may also go a little further, and that is why we also think that there is a good balance in the legislative proposal, in which it is suggested that parents can, of course, refuse their children to engage in such a conversation, because in the end the children are the parents'. But it can also be part of an overall assessment if all or very many parents refuse to allow their children to participate in a conversation with a representative from the board or ministry. Then it may be that there is something behind it or behind it that can form the basis for digging down an extra layer to see what is going on at that school. So there will be better supervision, there will also be more staff to the board, there will be a limitation on the period of supervision, and there will be more openness on the donations to private schools so that the authorities and the public can better monitor who is involved in funding schools. It is no secret that it is something that we think has been significant on the part of the Danish People's Party. We also know that there is work going on in the central administration and the government in order to see whether there can be even more openness in other areas and whether, in some cases, foreign donations can be banned, that is. prevent them from entering Denmark. It is a work which we will follow closely and which we find very interesting. With these comments, the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013152133	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013152146	Thank you for that, President. In connection with the examination of this draft law, L 36, on the strengthening of the quality of the free primary schools, the Left, of course, will vote in favour of the bill. I will not begin to go into the details of the content of the bill. I really think that the two previous rapporteurs have been good about this. However, I would like to stress that this is a legislative proposal which translates into two agreements which have been concluded with a wide range of parties here in the Danish Parliament in the last parliamentary year, and they are the ones that result in the legislative proposal that we are discussing here today. Then I would like to say that I am very pleased that in this area too we stress that we can work together across the board. It is also important for me to say that in the Left we recognise that the vast majority of free primary schools are doing a very good job. Free schools are a very important part of our society, and free schools help to ensure that we have a free choice of schools. In fact, almost a fifth of Danish primary school pupils attend a free school, and so many families have actively chosen the free school for that purpose. They have done so by making use of the right which is also enshrined in the Constitution, namely that one is free to choose a teaching offer in this country. This is, of course, a sign that free schools have a really important place in Danish society. There may be many different reasons why the individual family chooses a free school. It can, for example, be done. be based on educational, ideological, geographical or religious reasons. Why you choose a free school is entirely up to the individual family. It will also be in the future, and the important thing is that free schools continue to represent a diversity of good school provision and thus continue to play an important role in our society. Of course, with the great importance of free schools for our society, there is also a great deal of responsibility. The free schools must, of course, teach our children the traditional subjects such as: Danish and mathematics, but the free schools also have a very great responsibility to teach our children freedom, popular rule and democracy. Unfortunately, there are free schools that have been challenged on the last point. These schools are not allowed to fly under the radar. They really need to be brought to light so that we can correct the quality of their teaching of freedom and popular rule. With this bill, I believe that we are taking an important step in ensuring both better and more impartial supervision, and we are ensuring that schools are obliged to strengthen the democratic education of pupils. A greater focus on democratic education is needed at this time. Parallel societies and social control are some of the biggest challenges in our society these days. It affects the individual children, and it affects our society as a whole, thereby damaging integration and helping to dig ditches instead of building bridges. With this bill, we will ensure that the challenged free schools are made up of the quality of their work on freedom and democracy. It's a joy to all of us. It is a joy for our society, it is a joy for our children and young people, and it is also a joy for our free schools in general and for the individual school in particular. The Left, of course, will vote in favour of this bill, and then I have also promised to salute the Conservatives and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013152548	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013152554	I could hear from the rapporteur's speech that the rapporteur attaches great importance to the fact that free schools contribute to the diversity of our school system. I know, of course, from frequent discussions, the rapporteur and myself, that the Left attaches great importance to the freedom to run schools. I have understood this from the remarks and from what is also highlighted in the legislative notes that there must be a fundamental freedom of choice in the choice of one's own outlook on life to influence the school. Is the rapporteur not concerned that this proposal endangers this free right to a free view of life and to allow it to influence the free schools, and that we are, in fact, trying to standardise teaching and attitudes which are at the root of free schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013152650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013152652	I can reassure you, sir. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten saying that it doesn't bother me. I know that free schools are on a strong foundation, and I have to say that this bill does not prevent the things described by the rapporteur. There is still room for freedom, there is still room for diversity, but I would also like to say that I think it is important that, for the sake of children, we also ensure that democratic principles are taught. I really think that we owe it to the children to ensure that parallel societies are not created anywhere. And then I'm still going to say that I continue to hope and believe that it's quite a few schools that might have to have this enhanced supervision.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013152742	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013152744	I agree that our schools must be based on a democratic basis, and I also agree that we must avoid parallel societies, but I would say that, with the associations that have now given a hearing in this area, representatives from all over the free school world, I read a very strong concern, which I myself share, that this is a unification. I guess it's not the case that those associations represent special parallel societies. They represent the broad diversity of free schools. Does the rapporteur not have the impression that there is such a critical attitude and such a great deal of concern among free schools, and could this not indicate that there has been a lack of dialogue with the whole of the free school world before the proposal was put forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013152832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013152834	I think it is perfectly natural that, as an association for all free schools, we should of course also look at this bill with the critical glasses on it. I have to say that there have been a great many dialogue meetings, I can say that, because I myself had some of them before this bill was tabled. I can reassure Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur that dialogue will continue after this bill has been adopted in the Parliamentary Assembly. When you look at the text, there are very many places where there are things that you will then also do in close cooperation with the association of free schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013152916	There is a brief comment from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013152920	Thank you. The rapporteur said that this bill will build bridges rather than dig ditches. I think that is quite the opposite, because I believe that this draft law is based on enormous mistrust of the free schools in order to carry out the task that they are in the world to carry out. So that's how you can look at things so differently. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether she believes that it is the duty of the free schools to pass on democratic values to pupils in such a way that pupils subscribe to democracy as a form of government, that they believe it is the right form of government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013152956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013152958	I believe that as a free school one has an obligation to teach and also to explain what values we have in this country. And I think I can agree with the rapporteur of the alternative that this should be done, among other things. are such things as teaching what equality means, how it works in a country like ours. That is why I really think it is important to hold on to and actually address the positive fact that freedom is still there. Freedom for individual schools remains there. On the other hand, I do not think that we can just close our eyes and, for that matter, do not be sure that this is going on in the right way everywhere when we talk about the way we teach. And there I actually think that when you give some extra tools in this toolbox to those who supervise, you also give them the opportunity, for that matter, to correct some things in good time through guidance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013153103	Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013153105	Thank you. I fully agree with the rapporteur that free schools, as well as primary schools, must teach democracy, freedoms, equality. But when one uses a concept of democratic education and writes that free schools must strengthen democratic education, then I just get worried, because in my interpretation at least there is a desire for pupils to take in a belief in a particular form of government. Why not apply a different concept? Why has it not been used, for example? Citizenhood as a concept instead of democratic formation?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013153143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013153144	Well, now I think we're starting to talk about a few words. I have to say that, of course, there may be different views on how to interpret the individual words. I think, for example, that citizenship can equally be interpreted in different directions. I have to say that I am very comfortable with democratic formation. I think that is actually still a matter of freedom, but it is actually a matter of emphasising that we live in a democratic society.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013153209	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the next rapporteur in the rapporteur's series. This is Enhedslisten's sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013153220	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I think it is remarkable when reading the draft law, how weak a link there is between the proposal, Rambøll's evaluation of supervisory arrangements for the free schools from 2015, and then the political agreement, which is the starting point for the whole legislation. Although the legislative notes refer to the report, it is in fact given the impression that the evaluation of supervision has played a very modest role, because the key elements of the draft law appear completely unrelated to what can be read in the evaluation report. The lack of coherence is a contributing factor in Enhedslisten's concern about the overall legislative proposal. In general terms, it is incredibly important that the Folketing does not legislate on the basis of sudden political moods and that, in the specific case, we do not change the essential basic conditions for free schools without a proper analysis of the conditions that are desired to change. And our concern has not diminished by the consultation responses received. This does not mean that we do not find there are positive elements in the draft law. That is, for example, the case. We welcome the fact that the issue of impartiality in supervision is being addressed, and we think it is an excellent proposal that the circle of people who cannot be elected as supervisors should be expanded and that both the individual and the entire parliamentary term should be shortened. On the other hand, we think that we need to look at the proposal for a new framework for talks with students. A number of the consultation responses express a criticism of the proposed scheme, which we think should give rise to adjustments in the legislative proposal. We do not at first disagree with the fact that, as part of supervision, there must be an opportunity to hold talks with pupils without the presence of school leaders and teachers. We have also noted that it will be accepted if parents oppose the participation of their children, but we believe that the legal notes contain a barely wrapped threat of consequences if parents avail themselves of this right. We find this extremely inconvenient. Rather than the distrust expressed to parents in the legislative notes, we believe that the law should instead make it clear that parents, as a rule, always participate if supervision talks are carried out with individual pupils in exceptional cases. We also think that, in the light of the many responses to the consultation, it is necessary to clarify what the proposal for the registration of the concept of democratic education actually implies for the practice of schools. It is obvious that there will be no one in this Chamber who believes that free schools should not be based on a basis of value that respects the fundamental democratic values of our societies. Nor do I think there are any parties in the Folketing who would question whether the free school world associations profess democratic values. And yet it should be noted that these associations question the way in which the concept of democratic education is proposed to be incorporated into the law. This is done from the Danish Free School Association, from the Danish Private School Association, from the Danish Free School Teacher Association, from Grundtvigsk Forum and several others. I therefore think it is important that in today's debate and in the further legislative process we have a very careful look at what is the substance of the criticism raised in the hearings. It is called for what the registration of the concept of democratic education implies in relation to the teaching and overall operation of schools. What is the significance of incorporating the concept, when it is already stated in the law, that schools should, throughout their activities, prepare pupils to live in a society such as Danish, with freedom and popular rule, and develop and strengthen students' knowledge and respect of fundamental freedom and human rights? Does this change anything? Is the addition an expression of the fact that we are merely mentioning the democratic basis for the functioning of the free schools once more, or is it a strengthening of the requirements of schools? What exactly is the tightening up, and what are the consequences for the content of supervision? I think we need answers to that. The draft law, which has been consulted, said, for example: on democratic education, that it is not enough if the school confines itself to preparing pupils for having to settle for living in a free democracy. In order to fulfil this provision, the school must, in words and deeds, pave the way for pupils to take the values of free democratic society into account. I have noticed that those sentences have disappeared again in the final legislative proposal, and I would like to hear: is it because the Minister agrees with Grundtvigsk Forum that the wording was clearly restricting freedom of spirit in relation to free schools? Or are there other reasons why these wordings have been regretted during the process? I would also like to ask the Minister to clarify in greater detail what lies in the legislative texts on the clarification and effective enforcement of the school's decorum requirements, which I think are unclear. The Enhedslisten cannot support the bill as it stands here. We hope that in the further legislative process we will be able to clarify the concrete consequences of the bill and that the government will be open to drafting the bill so that it responds to a number of the critical comments that have come from the free school world. I look forward to further work on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013153747	There is one person who has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013153752	Thank you. In fact, I do not quite understand why Enhedslisten cannot support this, and that is why I want to ask some questions. Basically, I believe that both Enhedslisten and SF have great confidence in these institutions in Denmark, which are tax-paid and who work with children. It's professional staff who work out there that you can trust. But whether it is in the free schools, in the private schools, or whether it is the primary schools, or whether it is some other children's institutions, it is important that we politicians ensure supervision, so if there is one or two or three people who do not ensure the well-being of the children, then we have security for them. What's in this bill is the more unannounced supervision and more staff for it, and it's more impartiality in supervision. I don't understand why Enhedslisten can't support that. Do you disagree with the fact that it is good to tighten up supervision?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013153844	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013153845	That is exactly what I said in my speech: that is what we agree with. We think it is good that more resources have been allocated to supervision. We also think it is a good thing that, by defining parliamentary terms, greater guarantees are created that there is impartiality in supervision. What concerns us is whether, with the wordings entered into the legislation, the whole basis for free schools, that one can build from a view of life which can be religious or attitudes in other areas and which we have just given access to by means of the free school law, is narrowed by the wordings that lie there. If we were alone with that view, I would be inclined to give Mr. Jacob Mark is right, but when I can see that all the consultation answers from the free school world are repeated, I think there must be something in this which restricts the freedom of schools in a way that is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013153950	Sir. Jacob Mark for a second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013153952	However, the primary school law also states that the primary school is intended to develop pupils' understanding and sense of responsibility for other people who are actively involved in a democratic society. I'm not putting those negative things in democratic formation. For me, it is also a natural part of the primary school law that we have and, as I see it, the Enhedslisten also supports the purpose clause there. The rapporteur then says that there are no free schools based on values that are not based on freedom. But there have been examples of free schools, and it is not only Muslim free schools I am not one of those who is just chasing them; I would say that ■ clearly where equality is not accepted, where free love between the sexes is not accepted. Does the rapporteur not recognise this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013154037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013154039	As Mrs Magdalene Meier mentioned in her question a moment ago, over a long time there have been 15 supervisory cases. The two have been about freedom and popular rule. On that basis, two schools have been deprived of their state subsidies. I fully agree that there needs to be an opportunity to carry out such supervision, but what concerns free schools is that they really do not just want to make sure that education takes place on a democratic basis, but that some kind of mind control is set in place in relation to free schools, and that is what I am concerned about, and that is what I would like to see clarified in the further legislative process, so that we can be sure that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013154128	Mrs Anni Matthiesen, the Left, has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013154130	Yes, because I really want to follow up on what Mr. Jacob Mark was around. I would like to ask Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur: is it because up to now there have only been two schools where this has been problematic? Is that why Enhedslisten believes that there is no need to strengthen supervision?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013154150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013154152	I think that, in general terms, we need to consider what needs to be done to change legislation in general, but specifically in this area: do we need to go in and change legislation on a case-by-case basis? I do not think that is the case. I think it is more from a political, ideological debate that the mood seized a number of parties here in the Folketing calling for austerity in all kinds of areas compared with fellow citizens who have a Muslim religious background. Of course, we sometimes have to go in and change the legislation where we consider it necessary, but the fact that in two supervisory cases we have had to deprive schools of the subsidy because they did not meet the requirement of freedom and democracy does not, I do not think, give rise to fundamental changes in the legislation. This may give rise to the saying that we may need to tighten up supervision, and that is exactly what I think is sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013154248	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013154250	I have the impression that in many contexts the Enhedslisten is actually often in favour of preventing it being a good thing also for that matter. Does the Enhedslisten's rapporteur not think that what we are now having amended the law here could have a preventive effect in some way? In other words, if the Enhedslisten's rapporteur tried to get into the children's chair, it would be possible to ensure that the best possible teaching was done, and, as Jacob Mark also mentioned, democracy is already part of what is in the primary school law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013154331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013154336	I agree that we must always take the children's starting point, and I also agree that there must be proper supervision, first and foremost to protect children, in order to ensure that the basis, whether they are cared for in day care institutions or they go to school, complies with the law. I also agree that the school system must operate on a democratic basis, but it is my view, when we talk about the private school world, that all this about the rich being able to place their children in their own private schools, I am very little enthusiastic about. What I think is positive in the way our legislation is lumped together is that parents who have particular religious beliefs and share a common view of life can actually go together and run a school. I fear that with this we are suggesting that parents are actually being deprived of the full freedom that they have today and that they are setting up for the unification of schools. However, I would like to stress that the Enhedslisten of course believes that schools run for public funds should be based on a democratic basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013154448	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur for Mrs Merete Riisager from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013154455	The free schools are the heartblood of the Liberal Alliance. We in Denmark, as citizens, have a constitutional right to open a school on our own initiative, and this gives us a great opportunity to offer our children a different education from that offered by the state. This has given us a basic education system in which the private and the public can inspire each other, and it gives parents a free choice of schools that goes far beyond the free choice of parents, for example in the area of day care and youth education. The free schools are a gift, and we have to watch them. That is why Liberal Alliance is opposed to virtually any proposal to restrict the right of free schools to act as independent and parent-controlled entities. Free schools must remain free. And they must comply only with two general requirements. One is what we call a high standard of professional content, and the other is what politicians call the democratic requirement, that is, that schools should provide schools on a democratic basis. The State should not interfere with which pupils attend a school and how schools organize their education and school day. That is precisely what is the strength of free schools. On the other hand, we are firm that these two requirements must be met. Free schools, whose professionalism does not meet the expectations that one can have, must lose their subsidies, and the same applies to schools which do not provide schools on a democratic basis. You have the right to keep school, but you have no right to be approved as such and receive state aid if the school's basis is not based on the basic pillars of democracy. This is, of course, to ensure that each child is taught a lesson that enables him or her to function in a democracy, and it is also to protect the freedoms which form the pillars of democracy. A State is not obliged to support institutions or organisations working to undermine the values and rights that guarantee the freedom of the individual. That is why we want schools which, for example, place religious laws above worldly ones, which do not recognise gender equality and equal rights in society, and whose values do not recognise the freedoms that guarantee individual freedom and civil society rights, to lose their subsidies. This does not mean that at a school, for example, there cannot be a teacher who has views that stick out, but that the school in its value base and function shows that freedoms are not recognised as having priority. I attended a conference organized by the free schools on this subject a few days ago. There seems to be a concern in school circles as to whether free schools should change their practice in the light of this change of law. The short answer is that you should not. Free schools constitute the DNA of democracy itself, and the law here is expected to affect a very, very small proportion of free schools. The concern is and I would say quite frankly, because it is no use pretending that some of the Muslim free schools do not comply with the democratic demand. Schools have the right to set up a school based on their beliefs, but the law does not apply if, for example, the school puts Sharia law above the constitution, if the girls meet with special dress requirements, if atheism is not accepted, if Islam criticism is not allowed at school or if apostates from Islam are not accepted. Whether it is indeed the case that some schools do not function on a democratic basis is up to the Ministry to clarify, and it is of course crucial that the employees who work in this area are people who have a deep knowledge of Danish free school tradition, democratic education and also Islam and the various interpretations of it. The challenge will be to close down and it will not be easy for the grant to those schools that do not meet the democratic requirement, while at the same time not bothering everyone else. This is an important task that I expect the Ministry to do in the very best and most professional way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013154918	Thank you. One person has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013154923	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. In the alternative, we share the love of the Liberal Alliance for free schools. The rapporteur said that some of the Muslim schools do not comply with the democratic requirement. What is the documentation for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013154943	No, I didn't say that. I said that is the concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013154950	The rapporteur said, and I do not know if you can read out that the fact is, and we should not close our eyes to the fact that some of the Muslim schools do not comply with the democratic requirement. I would just like to ask: from where does the rapporteur have the documentation for this claim?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013155003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013155004	No, I said that the fact is that that is what concerns us, and that is what we are talking about, and that is why we are doing this. There is a concern about some of the positions that we have, for example. see in some mosques, which can be said to be subversive to democracy, and that the way and practice also goes again in some of the Muslim free schools. I know for a fact that this doesn't apply to everyone, because I know some of these school leaders, and they're both Muslims, and they're democrats, so I know that I exist. But the concern is that there are some schools that do not live up to this. And that is what needs to be investigated, and that is what concerns us.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013155044	Sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013155046	I understood from the rapporteur's speech that the answer to free schools, where one can be concerned that one has to change one's practice, is a clear no, that is to say that one does not have to. So I would really like to ask the rapporteur: what is the point of the proposal? I understood that it was an expression of wanting to sharpen it with regard to some democratic values in relation to what we have today, but that is not the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013155114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013155115	No, that is not the case for the broad majority. The broad majority must continue to do what they do. The Danish free school tradition is, you might say, the DNA itself in our democracy. And my expectation is that what we are talking about here, if it is a problem, is a problem for a very small minority of schools, and therefore the majority of schools should not worry about this at all. They just have to continue their practice as before.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013155146	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013155148	You could hear the debate a little bit, as if we are now insisting that schools should operate on a democratic basis. It already says today that schools throughout their activities must prepare pupils to live in a society such as Danish with freedom and folk rule and to develop and strengthen students' knowledge and respect of fundamental freedoms and human rights, including gender equality. This is certainly a very clear expression of the need for schools to be based on a democratic basis, which is why one might wonder why it is so important to change the text. I would really like to hear the rapporteur: why does the rapporteur think there is such a great deal of concern to all associations in the free school world? Is it not at all a matter of the rapporteur having some doubts as to whether we are on the right track with this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013155235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013155236	If the associations of free schools are concerned, I always listen to it, and of course they should be, every time there is a legislative proposal that deals with them. But I can just say here from my chair that all my work on this legislation and my commitment to it is that we should not change the practice of the majority of schools at all; they must continue to do what they do. There is no new demand here either, but there is in fact a change in the practice and way in which some schools are looked at, where there is a concern that they do not comply with the democratic requirement. That is what is now being organised, and that is what is now being tightened up.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013155322	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. Then we go to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013155336	Thank you. So if there's anything new in this bill, it's the language. I think we can all agree on that, and I think that is what has led to the great concerns of the free school world, because there are some new concepts in play and there are some new concepts in games that are not being defined very well. Democratic formation. What is it? The demand for freedom and the rule of the people? That is already in the current legislation. This means that schools must, according to their own purpose and throughout their activities, prepare pupils to live in a society of freedom and democracy, and that they must develop and strengthen pupils' knowledge and respect for fundamental freedoms and human rights. In the law on post-schools and free vocational schools, the concept of democratic education is used. It says here that it is about maintaining and developing a process leading towards democracy, and it is the school's task to form the pupils of committed citizens with the desire and ability to be active in a democratic society. We can easily subscribe to that in the alternative. I shall be the first to emphasise this. However, the comments on this draft law state that a change in the purpose clause is proposed, so that it is explicitly stated that the free primary schools must strengthen the democratic education of pupils as a whole in their aims and activities. So from the formation of pupils into committed citizens with the desire and ability to be active in a democratic society, their democratic formation must now be strengthened. There's a difference. It may well be that one may disagree on whether the interpretations are in that difference, but it is our claim that there is a difference in language. This concerns us in the alternative, and I think that is also what worries the free school world. You can interpret it and understand it as saying to the students: You are free to love what you want as long as it is democracy you love. But we have freedoms in our society, we have freedom of spirit. We cannot impose on our world and our citizens to subscribe to democracy, however much we have far more of us than think it is the most poor form of government. There is freedom of thought in Denmark, and we must stick to that. So having to love and absorb democracy in a special way restricts freedom of spirit. I am not surprised at the fact that this bill comes from the Danish Liberal Party, because in my interpretation of liberalism liberalism is precisely about the fact that the individual has a number of natural rights, for example. freedom of spirit, freedom of religion, the freedom of life, freedom and property, which is then the responsibility of the state to ensure that the right to be a free person is guaranteed. So sometimes you might ask yourself where liberalism got off in this bill. Another issue that concerns us in the alternative is what I have mentioned several times in my questions, namely the documentation of this amendment to the law. As Mr. Jakob Silverhøj from the Enhedslisten, we very much agree with some of the concreteities of supervision that are in relation to the period, and we actually agree with transparency in relation to donations. We fully support that. But where is the argument for tightening up supervision in relation to going out to talk to students without a parent, guardian or teacher present? Where is the argument that there should be a representative from the Ministry at board meetings? Where is the evidence that these regulations are necessary? I simply do not see it and, as I have mentioned before, from 2000 to 2015, 14 schools have been under close supervision. The 8 were subsequently deprived of their subsidies, but none of them have been deprived of the subsidy solely because of a failure to meet this requirement of freedom and popular rule. None of them. In two cases, the requirement for freedom and public administration has been included in the assessment of the withdrawal of the grant, and it was then a Christian and a Muslim free school • 2 free schools in 15 years. Conversations with children without adults. Yes, it is true that the comments have been included, that parents can renounce it. I have a child of my own who attends a free school, and I wondered what it would be like if it were my child's free school that was subject to tighter supervision and we, as parents, were told that we could renounce our child's participation in a conversation. It's not a religious free school, it's a creative drama and music school. I'm pretty sure the vast majority of parents would say: Nope, I don't want to be a part of that. Would this then mean that my son's free school in Østerbro should have withdrawn his grant because the vast majority of parents would say no to it? And would it make a difference if there was a Muslim free school that said the same thing? These are assumptions, and they're speculations, but I'm worried that may be the consequence of this bill. In the alternative, we think that the draft law is the expression of a mistrust which is aimed at a very small group of free schools and which most likely comes from a documentary on TV 2, which was about mosques and was called the Mosques behind the veil. We cannot support the fact that schools based on religious values are regarded in advance as a particularly challenging area. Freedom for Loki as well as for Thor, said Grundtvig, and we should remember that; it is something on which our democracy is based, and we think that with this bill we are putting it at risk. That is why the alternative cannot support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013155848	A number of brief comments have been requested. The first is Mrs Anni Mattiesen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013155853	I would like to start by saying that this bill has not come out on the basis of a documentary broadcast on television. We started this long before that TV show started already in the autumn of 2015. I know that this has been said many times by different people, but I would like to say that to the ground. Having said that, I would like to ask the alternative rapporteur: is it only those who have a few words to strengthen democratic education? Is it the word strength that worries the alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013155931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013155933	Yes, it is particularly the words to strengthen a democratic formation that worries us in the alternative. And that is because we think that there is a built-in understanding in the phrase that we would prefer our young people to subscribe to democracy as the only proper form of government. So when we use words to strengthen democratic education, we would much rather have us use the word citizenship rather than democratic education, as I mentioned earlier. We have no objection to formation. But we would also like the words to be used to indicate rather than to strengthen, because in strengthening something special there is some assumption that it is the right thing, and we need more of that. So that worries us, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013160022	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013160024	I know that the alternative is a party that may also sometimes worry very much, but I am still thinking that I am a little surprised that the alternative does not somehow see that it is also important to take the children's side and ensure that, with these reinforced supervisory tools in the toolbox, we also ensure that children are safe. Then the alternative could not again try to discuss why the little word worries so much?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013160059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013160101	Thank you. Well, you might ask: Why is this amendment necessary? What's the problem? We already have supervision that works in schools. Then there may be little regulation in relation to this, how long the period should be and something like that, but why is it that you go in with such a profound change of law as this one? We are concerned that this is being done without any obvious basis for it. I think it is precisely not to take the children's side, to sign up to the law, that it is possible to talk to a child alone as a supervisor, to impose a possible responsibility on the child for what may subsequently happen to the school. I don't think that's taking the children's side.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013160142	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013160144	Thank you. I actually have a lot of questions, but you have to try to revolve around a few. I mean, tighter supervision isn't something that just exists in the open school world. I have been chairman of the Committee on Children's Rights in Køge, where we placed daily institutions under tighter supervision on several occasions, because we were concerned about whether or not something should happen. And yes, there were representatives of the municipalities in those day care institutions, but they are doing so to protect the children. In other words, is the alternative against the possibility of having the tighter supervision and actually interfering if you experience that something goes wrong or something is not as it should be? The second question is that the rapporteur says that the rapporteur does not think that you should subscribe to democracy in schools. I agree that students should be taught to reflect critically, but when we spend many, many billions on free schools to train children, they must subscribe to democracy, to freedom, to equality. Of course they do. We must give freedom of spirit, yes, but does the alternative think that it would be okay if there were anti-democracy if they did the opposite? Would that be okay with the alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013160249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013160251	That was two questions in one. First of all, I fully agree that there must of course be stricter supervision, and that already does. My objection is that there is no reason to regulate further on the tighter supervision we have today. To the second question, we would then like all Danish citizens to subscribe to and support democratic governance, but I cannot decide it. We cannot, as a society, decide and say: you must think that democracy is the right thing to do. We need to respect the fact that people can sit out in our society, who may think that a totalitarian regime is right, but as long as they do not practice it in a way that leads to illegal practices, so that it becomes criminal or violent or in any way an attack on others, we cannot, as a society, go in and decide that they should not think so. That is what I find worrying.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013160346	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013160348	Well, I totally agree that we cannot decide what we have freedom of expression in Denmark. But this is about what we spend tax dollars on. Well, do we need tax dollars to have schools that think totalitarian systems are okay? That is what we are against. As I hear it, the rapporteur says that we cannot decide whether people think totalitarian systems are okay. I want to make it quite clear that I believe we can decide that if you have tax dollars, you should not subscribe to totalitarian systems. That's just my very clear opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013160421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013160423	Now, sir... Jacob Mark's question first on the kids, and now it goes to school. I fully agree that schools must, of course, subscribe to democracy. However, when we talk about how our children are taught in schools, we just cannot expect that the citizens who are taught in our schools, when they grow up, will necessarily subscribe to our understanding of democracy as a form of government. We have freedom of expression, but we also have freedom of thought in Denmark. There's a little distinction here. One thing is how to go out as a school and practice a basic school attitude for your pupils; another is what we expect those children to take with them. We hope, of course, that they think democracy is the right form of government, but we cannot decide that they should, so I would say that it is, of course, information about democracy that is important. We must provide information about it, and we must also enable the children to reflect critically on themselves and on what they are in, but we will never be able to go out and say: You should think that and that. And I just think there are elements of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013160524	Then it's Mrs. Merete Riisager. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013160530	I would like to continue a little where Jacob Mark ended, because I can't really figure out if the alternative's refusal to do this bill goes in some quirky ways of saying things. And then the alternative is not satisfied by the fact that those who have made the bill say that it should be understood exactly as the letter of the law actually is. But does the alternative believe that there is a right to state aid for a school that is not based on a democratic basis? That's what I was wondering. For everyone here agrees that there are parents who affect their children, and this goes far beyond what the school can do about it, but does the alternative really believe that schools are entitled to state aid, even if they do not operate on a democratic basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013160619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013160622	There is a very short answer to that, and that is: No, the alternative does not think so. It is also in the current legislation that schools must be based on a democratic basis, so we have no problem with that. What we are worried about is the fact that it says that schools must strengthen that is the concept we are concerned about, because, as I have said before, we may be concerned that there is an assumption that pupils should:
ParlaMint-DK_20161013160652	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013160654	I understand, then, that the rapporteur is not satisfied with the fact that those who have made the bill say that this is not the case and that the parents have an influence on the children, but it is therefore the work of the school, just as the bill says, which we are discussing here. But let me also ask you briefly about the documentation requested by the alternative: is there any evidence to put forward this bill? Then I will turn it around and ask: is the alternative aware that there are approx. 500 children who have changed school in the Muslim free school environment after the influence of Erdogan supporters? Is the alternative well aware that there are actually some rather extreme influences on the free school environment from anti-democratic forces?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013160738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013160740	Yes, we are aware of this and we are very concerned about the development of the children who have changed school in relation to what happened in Turkey. Of course, we think we should take care of that, but we should not do that through this legislation. The question is what is the basis for legislation, and we do not believe that this is legislation that should be based on that case. But it is quite clear that we are worried about this, as well as everyone else. Again: We have a supervision of the free schools in Denmark and we think it is working quite well. With the small regulations that we, like Enhedslisten, would also like to participate in, we think it is working very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013160814	Then it's mr. Daniel Toft Jakobsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013160821	Thank you. I think this is an exciting discussion. I would like to say that, at the risk of word culling, there is an important discussion about what is meant by the concept of democratic formation. Of course. I would like to ask the rapporteur something. I understand that the alternative supports the current wording of the paragraph of the intention to live in a society of freedom and popular rule, etc., but does not like the new wording of democratic formation, especially because of the fact that there is a need to strengthen the democratic education of pupils. But there is already the word'strength' in the current wording. It says that free schools must strengthen not only students' knowledge but also their respect for fundamental freedoms and human rights, including gender equality. I would just like to ask what the very precise and fundamental difference is between the fact that free schools must, on the one hand, strengthen students' respect for fundamental human rights, including gender equality, and, on the other hand, strengthen pupils' democratic education.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013160928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013160930	I have mentioned this in the past. Indeed, it is true that there is a strong awareness and respect of the current legislation. We think this is a very fine wording, because it is precisely a question of having knowledge of something and also of respecting the society in which you are living and the form of government that is in that society. But to strengthen democratic formation is to us a formulation that is worrying. As I have said before, one can conclude that it is a special form of education that we would like to see the students take on. You subscribe to democracy as the only proper form of government, regardless of how much I think it is right. It is also an interpretation issue. Nor have I answered what democratic formation means. When I stand here and say that we cannot support the draft law on those grounds, it is also because we lack a definition and explanation of what is involved in this democratic process. It is simply too far-reaching a concept of supervision. It could be arbitrary. We are simply concerned about how the supervisor understands democratic formation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013161040	Then it's mr. Daniel Toft Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013161043	Thank you for your answer. [Sound emission].
ParlaMint-DK_20161013161055	Wait a minute, it's out of function. I'll give it to you in two seconds. Let's try it again. Is it working now? Let's try it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013161105	The rapporteur said at one point that the rapporteur wants all children in Denmark to subscribe to democratic values, but we cannot force children to do so. There may be some who have some other values; opponents of democracy, opponents of freedoms; opponents of democracy at all. We can't force the kids to do that. I agree with the rapporteur on this. But does the rapporteur read this bill as if the demands being made here for democratic education were directed at the pupils and what is happening in the pupils' heads? Or does the rapporteur think, as I read it, that these demands are directed at schools and what is happening in schools, in education and in the functioning of schools at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013161150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013161153	I actually read it as both. I do so because it now says that not only in education but throughout the school's work, this democratic education must be strengthened. So I read it as directed towards both the teaching and the children. It will also come back, because the education given is received by the children. Then again there is the possibility of having talks with children, which are very worrying for us when we look at what a supervisor could use such a situation for, depending on how arbitrary one interprets the concept of democratic education.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013161229	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. This is the rapporteur for the Radical Left, Mrs Marianne Jelved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013161240	Thank you. As can be seen from the presentation, the Radical Left has agreed to the agreement which forms the basis for amendments to the law on free schools. We have done so because we would like to help solve the challenges that we may face at some point in the context of free schools. We value the free schools as a gem in Danish democracy and in our history and educational tradition. It is very important that a circle of parents who can have values different from the values of the majority can form a free school which must then meet a number of requirements laid down by the law and which, among other things, are: It is clear from section 76 of the Constitution, which states that the free school must provide an education which can measure up to what is generally required in primary school. That's how far I think most people in here agree. In this way, it can be said that there is a need for a link between the primary school and the free school. You can say in some general way that it's about what they're meant to be. Because there's a certain parallelism between them. Then there is the purpose of post-schools and free vocational schools. In fact, they also use the concept of democratic formation, but in a slightly different way. The law on post-schools and free vocational schools states that they must offer education and association on courses whose main aim is life education, public education and democratic education. And the law on folk high schools also shows that it is schools that offer education and association on courses whose main aim is life education, public education and democratic education. The point here is that it refers to what is happening in the courses and therefore it is part of the teaching that is the basis for meeting the requirements of life education, public education and democratic education. This is where a certain degree of uncertainty has arisen in the free schools' associations and teachers' circles working in free schools. There's been a change in the purpose of free schools... you have to dig around in all these papers. It will be said that according to their purpose and all their activities, the schools are to prepare the pupils to live in a society such as the Danish with freedom and folk rule, and to develop and strengthen the students' knowledge and respect of fundamental freedoms. There have just been some words coming in and developing and strengthening the democratic education of the pupils. And so it continues with the familiar: and their knowledge and respect for fundamental freedoms and human rights, including gender equality. The passage which is experienced in the way I have just tried to outline is not linked to particular teaching. To this there is to say that there is an understanding of the difference between the aims of different free schools. There is, therefore, a tradition that, when supervised, this is done by means of the teaching that takes place in the schools concerned. The comments on the draft law state that the free schools have expressed concern and the Ministry and the Minister have indicated that the Minister would very much like to enter into a closer discussion with the association of schools in order to find the solutions that can help to understand what the thinking is. This is where we also want to give a helping hand. I believe that the conciliation circle would like to do so, because we all have the advantage that the gem that free schools should be in our educational tradition can continue to be there. That is the objective, in other words, while at the same time raising the challenges facing society and time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013161654	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. It's the SF's rapporteur, sir. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013161714	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I think the free schools are important for Denmark. Every day they help to form and train thousands of students around the country. They create joy, give edge, create security and, overall, I believe they have a huge value for our society. I think it is wonderful with free schools that can create community in the community, especially where there is a clear need for a free school when you do not want to keep a primary school open. I think it is even more wonderful with free schools which act as educational alternatives. Especially I love the free schools that work without grades. I would like to see this introduced to primary school, but we will take it another day. But free schools also take up a lot. There are quite a lot of students today who attend Danish free schools, and that is why I also think it is very important to have strong supervision. I thought so even before I joined the Folketing. I already thought so when I was chairman of the Committee on Children's Rights in Køge Municipality. Whether we're talking day care, kindergartens, day nurseries, special institutions, primary schools, or we're talking private schools or free schools, strong supervision is important. I have been of the opinion for a long time that supervision of free schools could be strengthened. That is why I think it is very good that more staff are being set aside for more unannounced supervision, because it protects students. I think it is good that there is greater impartiality in who can be a supervisor at the school. It's not like you don't have faith. I have confidence in the public services, even though I am involved in ensuring that there is supervision, regardless of whether it is schools and hospitals or what it is. There must be strong supervision. That's why this is really good. I am also glad that I have heard most parties support the need for strong supervision, even from some of the parties voting against the law. Then there's this debate on mind control in this proposal. I have really tried to understand what it is that makes you think it is mind control. How can it be seen that it has been written that democratic formation must be strengthened, as mental control? I simply do not understand that. If we take up primary school, it says that the primary school aims to develop pupils' understanding and sense of responsibility for other people who are actively involved in a democratic society, as well as to develop pupils to have an open and tolerant attitude towards the opinions and attitudes of others. The work of schools must be characterised by freedom of spirit, equality and democracy. It already says about the public schools today. Schools must equip pupils for democratic education. That is also the task of the free schools. I have listened to the debate today and I understand that we should not impose democratic education on pupils or the idea that democracy is a good form of government. In fact, I disagree with that. I mean, you shouldn't control what the students should think, and what they shouldn't think there is then freedom of speech and we can't control what the students should think in the future, but I won't help sending billions of tax dollars to some schools that I don't know what stands for. Fortunately, we have some very good free schools, but with this we are just ensuring that there are no schools in Denmark that subscribe to totalitarian systems or that subscribe to the fact that you cannot be gay or that you subscribe to the fact that there is no gender equality. That is, of course, the security that is given today, and fortunately that is the case in the vast majority of free schools. I know that there has been a lot of discussion about Muslim free schools, but to me it does not matter whether it is Muslim free schools or whether it is some other religious free schools or what free schools it may be. They just have to represent the view that students should not be imposed a belief in totalitarian systems, a belief that there is no gender equality, a belief that there are no fundamental freedoms in this society. I don't think we should send out tax dollars for that. So with that I would just like to say, as I started with, that it is very good that we have free schools in Denmark. I really think so. They have a huge value for our society, and that's not going to change with this bill. No matter how many things you try to put in this bill that isn't there, it's going to be a perfectly normal everyday life for free schools when this bill is passed. They're doing a hell of a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013162148	Thank you. There is a brief comment and it is from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013162155	Thank you. After all, this is a great deal about trust, as the rapporteur himself mentions the word 'trust'. Is the rapporteur not confident that the free schools in the current legislation will be able to carry out the task of guaranteeing these freedoms and democratic rights which are enshrined in the current free school legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013162219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013162221	Basically, I have confidence in it, but I mean, as I do for the public schools, just as I mean for all institutions working with children, that there must be such a base that there must be a minimum of security, regardless of the fact that I trust them, that there is supervision, that there is control of how our children are doing out there, and also that there is control that we do not spend tax dollars on someone educating our children in something that is not about freedom, which is not about equality, which is not about democracy or democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013162249	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013162251	To this one may object: but there is already supervision. That's kind of my point. But my second question is one that I would like to put to you, and that is the following. The rapporteur once again mentioned this because he does not want to give tax dollars to a school that does not respect the fundamental democratic values of our society and so on, and we fully agree with that. What we also talked about a little earlier is what if, for example, There is a 9th grade school student who stands up and says: I believe in Stalinism as the right form of government. If so, have the free schools failed their task if there is a pupil, for example: in the ninth grade, standing up and saying that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013162333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013162335	No, I do not think so, and I do not think so at all from the draft law in any way, so that student could almost have been me when I was in the ninth grade in primary school, and I was somewhat more radicalised than today. This is about how the teachers and schools act towards the children and not the other way around. It is a question of the schools, as a starting point, being based on a democratic basis vis-à-vis the pupils.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013162359	Thank you. Then I have no more left for short remarks, and I would like to thank the rapporteur. We go further in the rapporteur's line, but as I see no rapporteur for Conservatives, we move on to the Minister. And then it is the Minister for Children, Education and Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013162423	It was the quick speech of the Conservative rapporteur who just created a moment of inattentiveness! Thank you for your comments, and thank you for the great support that Parliament's parties also show for this bill. We have a long school tradition in Denmark with a strong focus on the democratic participation of children and young people. This applies not only in our primary school, but also in our free primary schools. Almost one fifth of the country's primary school pupils attend a free primary school, and the free primary schools have an important role to play in our society and in the development of both the democratic education of a very large group of our children and young people who receive their primary education in the free primary schools. But also in our society as a whole, among others. for some of the reasons that a number of the rapporteurs have also mentioned up here from the platform today, they play an important role. They do so, both in relation to having a different view of things, that one can have a different educational approach, and because one also fills in in many places a void created if the local school closes, or in other ways one chooses voluntarily to organise and build up a free primary school. I think that the diversity of free primary schools is an important expression of the fact that freedom and popular rule are central values in Danish society. I would therefore also like to make it very clear at the outset that the aim of the legislative proposal we are debating today is in no way to restrict the freedoms of free primary schools. The draft law does not interfere with the right of free primary schools to have a particular ideological or religious basis of value. It does not interfere with the right to be able to build an alternative school form. Having said that, it is also the case that free primary schools do not have a constitutional right to state subsidies, and that is perhaps why I think that today's debate is running a bit off the rails for certain parties, as it were, when one equates having freedom and having the right to receive state subsidies. The state can and also has the right to impose conditions on schools in order to receive a state grant under the existing primary school law. We have a match with the demand, we have freedom and the demands of the people. We can demand that school education, as well as schools, should contribute to the development of the democratic education of pupils as a whole. That is, in fact, the basis of the draft law. It is to extend and extend the dimension of freedom and popular rule, and it is to ensure that the tradition of education is also based on the free primary schools on a democratic basis, as fortunately it does in the free primary schools, and as a starting point for the vast majority. The bill we are discussing today translates the agreement reached on 18 March 2016 between the government, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party on strengthening the quality of the free primary schools. It is an agreement which was later signed by the Socialists, the Socialist People's Party and the Radical Left, and in this context it also expanded both in scope and, above all, in resource capacity. I also think it sends out a signal that the legislative proposal we are debating today is not only based on thorough preparatory work, it is also broadly politically anchored. The discussions prior to the conclusion of the agreement included, inter alia: Based on Rambøll's report, the evaluation of supervisory arrangements in the free basic schools, from March 2015, and the report points out among other things: the need to strengthen the impartiality of the supervision of free primary schools. The draft law therefore also contains a number of legislative amendments which are necessary in order to also implement the sub-agreement subsequently concluded on 10 May 2016 on the free primary schools. The sub-agreement is part of a comprehensive package designed to stem religious preachers who seek to undermine Danish laws and values and support parallel legal perceptions. The partial agreement of 10 May was concluded between the Government, the Social Democrats, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservative People's Party and subsequently joined by the Radical Left. The partial agreement builds on the agreement reached on 18 March on the strengthening of the quality of free primary schools and also further strengthens state supervision of free primary schools. I think that both agreements represent precisely the balance that must be struck; they guarantee freedom for free primary schools to have a different educational view, a different ideological or religious basic view, while emphasising that there must be both resources present and a stronger focus on those schools where there may be a need for stronger supervision. It is about the cohesion of Denmark, and it is precisely because we have a strong democracy, that we have our freedom and our folk rule, and here schools, whether we speak primary school or free primary schools, play a crucial role, because that is where a basis is laid not only for education but also for education. The draft law must therefore also help to counteract the tedious trend towards cultural parallel societies, which we unfortunately see not only in Denmark but also in countries around us. That is why I would also like to thank all the parties that have taken responsibility for the agreements, also taken responsibility for finding the resources for closer supervision. One thing is to have supervision on paper, but if there are no resources for supervision, then we do not, in fact, ensure that we take care of the interests of the pupils, that we carry out the desire, which we have broadly politically, to ensure that nothing is going on that is contrary to freedom and the rule of the people. The draft law also explicitly states that free primary schools must, according to their purpose and throughout their activities, strengthen the democratic education of pupils. It is already clear from today's free school law that, according to their purpose and throughout their activities, free primary schools are to prepare pupils to live in a society such as Danish with freedom and popular rule and to develop and strengthen pupils' knowledge and respect for fundamental freedoms and human rights, including gender equality. The proposed clarification on democratic education aims to ensure that all schools, throughout their activities, actively develop and strengthen the democratic education of all pupils. I think that we are also saying in this way that, of course, schools have both a right and an opportunity to legally influence pupils, but that must not destroy or harm the democratic education of pupils. This must be done in a way that contributes to the development of the democratic education of pupils and does not counteract it. One of the things that is also included in the broad political agreements is an indicator-based supervision, which now needs to be further developed with a focus on freedom and popular rule. I think that is also an expression of the fact that this is not a question of arbitrariness, as I hear some of the rapporteurs say a little bit. This isn't about reacting on the basis of individual cases. This is about strengthening the basic quality of the way we oversee free schools. At the same time, the agreement reached on 10 May also included, inter alia, the following: The Social Democrats, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Socialist People's Party and subsequently joined by the Radical Left also created a quantification of how many supervisory visits should then be made when a school has been appointed for enhanced supervision, and also emphasised that the unannounced inspection visit is a tool to be used to a greater extent, including that it should also be possible to include the students' perspective on the matter and to hold talks with pupils, without there being any leaders, without there being teachers, in order also to ensure the rights of the children and give them the right to speak with their own voice. The agreement also means that there must be and must be at least two unannounced inspection visits to the schools in which the board initiates an oversight case with the requirement of freedom and public governance on the basis of requests from parents, teachers and pupils. I think it is reassuring that we are also sending the signal of the agreement of 10 May that in future, if you are concerned as a former pupil or a parent about quality or about some of what is going on in a free school, you can also be comforted by the fact that those enquiries are taken seriously and that they are also followed up. We are also launching a number of other concrete initiatives that will help strengthen supervision and will help to ensure that, when we talk about financial supervision, we also ensure that schools are truly independent and that there is greater transparency in relation to who donations are made to schools. Therefore, in the future, there will also be a requirement, both in the financial statements and also in the supervisory statement, to provide information on donations over a certain amount. It is also to ensure that schools remain independent of people, other schools, courses, companies, institutions, countries and others. I also think that it is an important signal that we are sending out that, in such a way, there is a need to focus both on freedom and popular rule, democratic education and supervision, but also to focus on whether one can buy oneself to influence a school through one's donations. It is also emphasized, and this is something that has also emerged from some of the consultation answers that, of course, there is no question of restricting parents' ability to volunteer, not cleaning, repair work or other help to schools. It is not considered donations, and that is why I also think that the concern that sometimes sounds about the fact that people are now cutting into freedom and culture is extremely exaggerated in relation to the fact that there is a very precise distinction between what is involved in promoting the school culture that is strong and that we want to continue to be strong, and what we can have a concern about can help to break down a strong basic school structure and culture in Denmark. The free primary schools today are very different. They are based on different values, and they must continue to do so. It's part of their strength. But all schools must also comply with the law's requirement that the teaching should prepare the pupils for a life in a society such as the Danish with freedom and folk rule, and where there is a need for education, education and democratic education to go hand in hand. The government supports the free school tradition and we recognise that the vast majority of free schools are doing very well. And that is why they probably have no reason to fear stricter supervision if there is nothing to come for. The draft law, on the other hand, provides us with better tools for looking out and also for supervising those schools where there may be a concern that it is lagging behind, so that hopefully they can also get a positive development going, or that, where there is a need for what has happened through history, we can close schools or deprive them of subsidies. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of tobacco products. Why have you listened to what, among other things? Grundtvigsk Forum and some others say in their hearing answer? I think everything else would be weird. I think it would be arrogance without equal if we did not listen to some of the things that have been included in the hearings. This does not mean that we agree politically with all the consultation responses, but there will of course be elements in the consultation answers which give rise to clarifications in a legislative proposal and which hopefully all help to ensure that the legislative proposal becomes clearer and also easier to administer afterwards. That is why I would like to say thank you, both for the constructive and thorough discussions we have had with the parties of the Folketing, but also for the process that has been followed, in terms of qualifying how we ensure that the enhanced supervision of the free primary schools does not go beyond the culture and strong culture of freedom that we have in the free primary school area in Denmark and must continue to have. I look forward to the committee reading, and I therefore hope that the breadth of the work so far can continue, because it sends out a signal that this is not, as someone says, a turkey hunt for the few, but a well-prepared initiative to ensure the quality of our free primary schools in the future too.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013163723	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Silver Mound. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013163727	I shall therefore hurry to say that I have no contempt for listening to the hearings. On the contrary, I have a concern that there has been so little listening to the hearings. That's really my point. In other words, I think it is important, also for the further debate, to stress that there are no parties. I have certainly not heard any voices suggesting that free schools should not be based on a democratic basis. What gives us reason to have the whole debate on what is really in this is that it is so difficult to clarify what the new is really. That is why I would like to ask: with the wording that is now being introduced on democratic education, will it mean that on that basis subsidies can be taken from schools which cannot be deprived of subsidies under existing legislation? Is that how it is? Because otherwise it's just a repetition where you write the same thing one more time. Does this have any practical impact on whether schools can continue to receive grants?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013163828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013163831	I don't stand up here and deal with supervision cases with individual schools. However, I have no doubt that the fact that resources are now being set aside for both staff employed in the supervision, who have other language skills than they have been in the past, that an indicator-based supervision is being carried out, that the possibility of being able to carry out more unannounced inspections at schools under enhanced supervision is being tightened up, that there is openness about both donations and a large number of other things, will, of course, help to qualify for supervision of the free primary schools. That is why we are making the agreement, in other words to ensure that when we have supervision, one can also be confident, as a pupil and parent, that it is real supervision and not just supervision that does not have resources at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013163916	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013163919	I do not think it quite answered my question. I agree with the fact that more resources are being made available, that supervision is being increased and that supervision is being made more impartial. Then it may well be that you find schools that you do not think adequately comply with the legislation. But what I was actually asking was whether the inclusion of the concept of democratic education means that there will be another basis for depriving schools of subsidies. When I mentioned that the government had listened to the hearing answer and that was a praise, it was, of course, because a wording that said that pupils should take the values of free democratic society into account was apparently an over-interpretation of the new addition. And that's where the worry comes in. Is this an expression of a degree of control of the mind so that it should not just be checked what is being taught and what the values of the school are, but that we should also have a control that states that if you as a student have not taken democracy into account, the basis for the school to receive grants has been removed? That is what is at the heart of my concern, and what I also see is at the heart of the concern of free schools. Does the Minister not share that concern at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013164034	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013164037	No, I don't share the concern. In fact, I think it is important to make it clear that democracy cannot be countered in the future. In other words, it is not enough to say formally that there are 179 members in the Folketing, to mark a cross, and then to do so with freedom and popular rule. In other words, if you want to receive state aid, you cannot counteract democracy in your work or in your teaching. And I really don't think that has anything to do with mind control. For as was also pointed out in the hearing held last week by the Association of Danish Free Schools, there is no constitutional right to receive state subsidies. You have a constitutional right to be able to build your school on the basis you want. Here we are talking about what we need to be able to live up to, both in terms of freedom and the rule of the people, and in terms of standing up to the requirements for future funding. I think it is quite clear that we have a desire to sharpen up the democratic tradition of education which must be present, both in education and throughout the school.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013164135	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013164151	The debate is open. And the first rapporteur is the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Annette Lind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013164216	Thank you. Good day care institutions play a crucial role in children's growth and are an essential prerequisite for having one of the world's richest and very best welfare societies, where both men and women take part in the labour market. And precisely because we in Denmark have such a strong supply of care for our children, we are also one of the countries that is best to operate in. As a complement to our strong public day care institutions, companies have the opportunity to set up a business institution specifically targeted the children of employees, and there are international day offers for foreigners coming to Denmark to work. In the Social Democratic Party, we welcome the fact that these opportunities exist and recognise that, for example, they do exist. large international companies can be a special offer in terms of recruitment and retention of employees. That is why we also share the intentions behind the government's proposals in this area. At least we share them with regard to the first part of the legislative proposal. In fact, we support the desire to create a clear legal framework to establish international day-to-day offers where the main language can be either French, German or English, provided that a municipality considers that it does not lead to integration problems. If it were a separate legislative proposal, we would have voted in favour, but unfortunately it is not. The framework for setting up and running a business establishment is good under the current rules and, in our view, gives companies that want to create a bid targeted at their employees the opportunity to do so. It is with regard to the second part of the legislative proposal that we have some concerns. The Government's proposal to adjust the daily offer law on this point is a cause for concern. We basically want our institutions to give children from all parts of society the opportunity to meet and join a community. And that is why we are also sceptical about allowing certain private institutions to be completely exempted from the municipal authorising law, which does not apply to other types of day-care institutions. We have proposed a compromise from the Social Democratic Party to the Minister, allowing business institutions to retain the empty seats for a period of recruitment, but if they are not used, the municipality will use any remaining vacant places. Unfortunately, we have not been successful, the Minister has rejected it. We are actually rather sorry about that and we would have liked to have discussed it. So, of course, we regret that we cannot vote in favour of that part of the bill. We really think it is very reasonable that, if the seats have been empty for a period of time, the authority of the municipality should be granted. In the Social Democratic Party, we want to maintain the fundamental principle that all institutions must be open and allow children across backgrounds and walks of life to meet. It is also our view that, according to the current rules, there is quite a broad framework for setting up business institutions targeted at employees' children, but as other children can also be pointed out by the municipality if there are available places. We are concerned about giving certain other private institutions the opportunity to point out children solely because they do not want to include some Against this background the Social Democrats cannot support the government's proposal, L 37, which has been tabled today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013164543	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the next rapporteur from the Danish People's Party. Mrs. Pernille Bendixen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013164553	Thank you very much for the floor. The proposal before us today is to provide a better framework for business institutions and international day-to-day services. It may of course make sense to help companies, because it may be a challenge for some companies to attract labour, especially those companies where there are special requirements for working hours that interfere with family life, because there is a need for a lack of flexible opening times and other special requirements which may be difficult to meet in a general municipal system. The fact that the institutions are being modified to reserve the seats of the children of the employees of companies makes a great deal of sense to us. We think that it is a bad idea if the municipality can actually use those seats to fulfil the municipal space guarantee so that that part of the proposal we can support fully. Moreover, companies can choose voluntarily whether they only wish to reserve the places for employees' children or whether they will also give some of them to the municipalities. We have noted that as a child you will not lose your place if parents' association with the workplace ends, and we think this is very positive, because it must be about the child's best interests. And that would be a really, really bad thing in cases where a child had to be taken out of a day-care center because parents cease to be in the company. So we also look positively at that part. We also consider it further important that, in relation to the language section, it is only about the institutions which are associated with a workplace and where it can then be German or English or French. We are sorry that there are all kinds of offers with all the languages in the world, and that is why we are extremely pleased with the restriction that says that the starting point is that the spoken language is Danish. We therefore regard this proposal as a tightening-up, and I need the Minister to confirm that to us. Our position is, of course, that one speaks Danish and that one speaks Danish everywhere, and one's children must of course do so. But we understand, of course, that in this case there may be some other requirements. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013164818	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Left and that is Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013164827	Thank you. In connection with the fact that we are dealing with Bill No. L 37 on the amendment of the daily offer law with a view to improving the conditions for the establishment of business institutions and international day-off offers, I can inform you that, of course, the Left is voting in favour of this bill. After all, everyday life must be a higher unit for a great many Danes, both in relation to working life, family life and, of course, child care. This concerns both the director and the employee in production, the self-employed and the nurse, the farmer and the laboratory. Yes, we must have everyday life together, and I also imagine that we here in the Folketing are well aware, perhaps especially those of us who have children. That is at least one of the things I think back to, namely that, when my children were young, it could sometimes be a challenge. That is why I am actually very excited about the legislative proposal that we are discussing here, because it offers opportunities to make everyday life easier to get together. With the proposal, we in the Left want to ensure better conditions for the operation of business institutions so that they can reserve seats for employees' children. These institutions will be of great joy and benefit to the company's employees and families. For many, everyday life can become considerably more flexible when the day offer is right next to the workplace. In addition, company offers allow for more flexible opening hours and for that matter also to adapt to the odd working hours of the workplace, which can sometimes involve evening shifts, night shifts and weekend shifts, i.e. work at times when other day offers may not just be able to stay open, and where the company can thus contribute to the everyday life of these families. Last but not least, the bill will help to improve the recruitment of skilled employees from afar when companies can offer a comprehensive family package, you might say, for both parents and children. Another element of L 37 is to ensure better conditions for international day offers. This should also help attract and maintain qualified labour to Danish companies. I can say that I know at least that the municipality in which I live looks forward to this law being adopted. There are many places where you already have a great many employees who come from abroad and may stay for a shorter period, where they have the whole family, and where there is a need for flexible and good opportunities to take care of the children as well. At the same time, the law also allows for the establishment of international offers where the main language is either English, German or French. It is also important to stress here that it is on the assumption that the municipal council also considers that it will have no impact on integration. All in all, I think this is a very good legislative proposal, which, of course, we are voting in favour of. And then I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they also support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013165205	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr Gundelach's report. Jakob Silver Mound. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013165214	Thank you. With the bill here, the government is proposing legislative changes which, according to Enhedslisten, on the one hand do not really create better opportunities for setting up day-care institutions linked to companies or international day-offerings and, on the other hand, can contribute to the privatisation and deregulation of the day-offer area. And that, in our opinion, is a really bad combination. When you go into legislation, there are already opportunities today for municipalities to enter into operating agreements with self-owned institutions which are affiliated to a company or have agreements for booking a number of places for children and employees from certain companies. It has existed in the last 30, 40, perhaps even more years. This is well known in the institutional world. The same possibility exists if the municipalities choose to outsource part of their day care facilities. So far, not a single one has been outsourced, so that is not a very practical problem, one can say, and if you want private institutions at last, then it is already in the legislation that private institutions can be set up which have the full power to decide who should be admitted. It may then perhaps be a decision from the institution concerned that it should be directed precisely at employees of a given company. So nothing really new is added. The only real difference is that, in future, the self-serving institutions must be able to exclude children whose parents are not employed in a given company from being admitted when there are empty places in the institution, that is to say, to add an opportunity for lower capacity utilisation in this area, and perhaps that is not real progress. I would also like to say that if you look at the possibility of setting up daily offers with English, German or French as the main language, then I quite share Mrs Pernille Bendixen's view that there is no further possibility here. On the contrary, we are restricting opportunities because we are shutting down the possibility of creating day-to-day offers with other main languages. So again: You don't open up new opportunities, you make further restrictions. In short, there is little evidence that the draft law can pave the way for real improvements in relation to existing opportunities in the two areas to which the law is aimed. On the other hand, there may be a significant risk, particularly with a focus on the opportunities that the bill points to to establish business-oriented international day offers, that it paves the way for more private day offers, where employees work under conditions that are not regulated by the agreements of the area and where there are no requirements for the employees' educational background. With the experience we have so far from day-to-day offers, which have been created primarily to receive children from foreign workers, experience is that it has paved the way for massive social dumping in this area and a weakening of educational quality, and that is simply not needed any more. It may be difficult to assess the extent of the problems posed by legislative changes. I believe and hope, in any case, that it will be incredibly limited what practical consequences this will have for the area at all, but I think we should go another way. It could be that we extended the opportunity that already exists today for the self-serving institutions to reserve seats for employees' children, that we should consider jointly following the recommendation of the children's and cultural leaders, which points out that, instead of going the private road, we could consider whether a space could be created for municipal institutions to reserve a number of places in the same way. It might also be very sensible for us to be more determined to set up either whole institutions or groups within the existing institutions which could receive children with a different language. If we did so, if we took advantage of the opportunities that exist in the public institutions, the municipal institutions, we would thus have some very good offers which had very flexible possibilities and which had it in them that it was certain that the conditions that apply to children and to employees fully complied with the quality requirements and contractual expectations that we have for our day-to-day offer area today. So I think it is quite clear that the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013165727	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mrs Merete Riisager. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013165736	Thank you. The day-off area is an area where the state rules. The private and self-serving offers form an infinitely small part of the supply, and this small part is under constant attack and suspicion from the left and trade unions such as the FOA. FOA has been running this fight systematically for many years, and they are effective in suggesting and insinuating that private offers deliver inferior quality and that there are greater risks as parents in choosing a private offer. In reality, however, the opposite is true. In general, parents are happy with private offers, and there is reason to do so. In fact, private individuals are not subject to as many bureaucratic rules and regulations as public ones, and they therefore spend more of their hours caring. It's good for the kids. L 37 is a tiny step towards the liberalisation of the day-to-day supply area. However, allow me to make a small announcement to the government: years ago, the Left drew up a plan for the liberalisation of the day-off area. Where'd it go? The government has announced a reform after New Year, but so far it is reported that a pool is being sent to the municipalities and that the educational curricula need to be extended. Oh. When LA supports the Left Government, then it is in a positive expectation that the policy that comes from you is bourgeois-liberal, and we want to remind you of that. We're happy to help. So let us together create a package of liberalisation in the area of day-care, giving parents new opportunities to set up, operate and choose private day-care institutions which will benefit children and which will raise the professional level throughout the sector. Liberal Alliance votes for L 37.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013165924	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur for the alternative. This is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013165933	Thank you. This bill states that these establishments must reserve places for employees' children and that institutions where the main language may be English, German or French may be established may be English or French. We can agree to the bill in the Alternative, despite the fact that we also have some reservations about it. But there are the pros and cons of this. We believe that the bill here can help to create more balance in the everyday life of some of the families who need flexible opening hours, and also to a large extent with some international employees that we can attract to Denmark. After all, we believe in and want to promote everything called international cooperation, not least in the field of entrepreneurship and innovation. So it is a good thing that, with this bill, we are somehow taking on a social responsibility to create the best possible framework for a good family life and a good child's life. Nor should we forget that some of the self-serving and private institutions can do something else, and we pay tribute, a little bit like the Liberal Alliance, also in the alternative institutions, which may have some other offers than the large public institutions, namely that they are small and more locally located. We must also remember to draw attention to the drawbacks of the draft law. Public children's institutions are a diverse place where children meet across social layers. And that's why it's of course important that with this bill we don't create A and B institutions. This is something that we will be aware of in relation to how developments are going to develop, because it is certainly not something that we want to contribute to by the alternative. But as a starting point we salute the private and self-serving institutions because they emerge from local and very concrete needs and therefore offer a good addition to these typically very large public institutions. In relation to this specific legislative proposal, we believe that it is absolutely essential that there are completely waterproof shutters between what is going on in the children's institutions, in the day institutions and what is going on in the companies. And by this we mean that everything that is going on in the day-care institutions typically has the character of privacy. You're gonna hear something about what's going on at home. Are Mom and Dad getting divorced? Is there a problem? Don't the kids like it? All these things belong in the life of the institutions, and therefore it is very important that there are very waterproof shutters so that that knowledge is not passed on to the companies, that is to say to the management of the companies. It's something that's important to us. But we also do not read out of the bill that this should be possible. Then we wonder a little bit about English, German and French. One might ask oneself why it is asked somewhere in the hearings. could not be Italian if, for example, An balance in the construction of the metro would establish a branch in Denmark. Why, then, is it only English, German and French that can be granted a derogation to have as the main language? Couldn't you imagine having other languages? It could be Spanish, it could be Turkish if it was a large Turkish company that settled in Denmark. So some kind of flexibility with regard to the choice of languages, which you can get a derogation to have as the main language, we could well ask for. These are some of the questions we may need to clarify, but we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013170251	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Bendixen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013170256	Thank you. The rapporteur has a concern about whether some kind of A and B teams will be set up. Couldn't you try to define a little more clearly what that means?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013170305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013170308	Yes. The concern was that there might be A institutions and B institutions. Will it be the case that these business institutions, where you can reserve seats for employees' children, will become specially attractive institutions, perhaps because the company chooses to shoot in some money or where, for example, you can spend some money? Is it not the case that all the seats are used and therefore have a better standard compared with the public institutions? So that's more of the worries we have. But we really have a belief that these institutions too, if there are seats available, will open up the municipal direction. So it is a point of attention, but it is not, in fact, something that means that we are holding back from supporting the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013170351	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013170353	But let us imagine that there really was a day-care institution in a company where you actually had better standards and some other attractive things. Would it then be a problem for some children to have a better offer than other children?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013170408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013170410	Depends on what a better offer is. Well, as a starting point, yes. It would be a problem if we did not have equal relationships in Denmark in the offers that are to our children in our day care institutions. However, in general we are in favour of freedom of the institutions in the alternative. This means that we believe in the fact that it is the management of each institution that has the power to define: how are we a good institution for children? So in this context, we have every confidence that the institutions will have that freedom. But it is clear that if there was a lot of difference, then we would react to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013170456	Sir. Jacob Mark, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013170500	Thank you. It's a question about who can go to these institutions that you want to open up to. I share the enthusiasm of the alternative, for example. self-serving kindergartens who may have a slightly different pedagogy and approach to pedagogy, and many of them, as the rapporteur himself says, are also smaller institutions. But what also excites me about self-serving institutions is that it is for all children that it is not only for the children of the entrepreneur or of the employee of the company, but also for the benefit recipient. What FOA, for example. writes in their hearing answer that this bill is an unfair discrimination, i.e. that private and self-serving institutions, unlike municipal institutions, can reserve the seats for special groups of children • I even think BUPL calls it a dispute with a basic value that day offers are for all children. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013170556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013170558	I think that this is a point of attention, and it is also something we have discussed in our group, and I can tell you that this is something we have discussed a great deal in our group. It has not been easy for us to decide what to land on. But what has been important to us has been that in relation to the company in question, which then sets up an institution, it will be all employees of the company which has equally the right to have their children cared for there, i.e.. in principle, both the cleaning assistant and the director. So it can be said that diversity across the company is at least within the company. Then it is quite true that the children of a help recipient would probably not be able to get a seat there unless you open the space for it. And I think it is important to be aware of that. However, we pay tribute to the opportunity to create more local and also more free institutions. One could also imagine that it depends very much on the local area, how many children there in a given institution, for example. have parents who are unemployed and how many have parents who are directors. I mean, it's hard to change the structural composition of society that way. So that is something we are aware of, but we have decided in this case that, for the other reasons I mentioned, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013170712	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013170714	Well, I can only say again that we are in favour of free institutions and that freedom for another pedagogy, but we also support the fact that all parents can have the experience of that free education if that is what they want. And some of what we fear about this bill is that it is simply a slip from the basic value that everyone has access. Isn't that the way it is, because that's how I understand it, and that's how it was, sir. Jakob Sølvhøj said that there are already opportunities to benefit companies today and that this is something that has been done in the municipalities for many years, in other words in relation to the self-serving institutions? So is it not an unnecessary move, as the alternative is doing here, in relation to making a law that means that not all types of children have the right to go to a daycare institution?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013170757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013170759	It is quite true that there is already the possibility of companies setting up institutions in the legislation, and that many people are also using them. This isn't about quitting, for example. The care guarantee, that is, a parent will still be guaranteed a place for his child through his municipality. And if that were the case, we would clearly not be in favour. It is a balance, and it has been a balance for us, where it has weighed the hardest to say: we actually pay tribute to the flexibility that lies in the possibility of doing so and especially attracting some foreign labour to Denmark. And this is not about us wanting more money for the country, but rather about us wanting something more innovation and creativity and new knowledge for the country. And we think that's possible here. So it has weighed heavily for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013170843	Then it's Mrs. Annette Lind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013170845	Thank you. I have to admit that I am a little confused, because the alternative rapporteur says that you do not want A and B teams anyway, and you are worried about some of these things. In the Social Democratic Party we have proposed a compromise because we really think it is very fair that a company institution, if it has available seats, may be allowed to keep them for a period of time so that it can be recruited. But if it turns out it doesn't get these seats, then we think that the municipality should be able to refer to them. Does the alternative rapporteur think that it is right for these seats to be empty and that the municipality does not have the authorising right if you need these seats?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013170924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013170926	I have not heard the Social Democrats' proposals until today in this Chamber, and I think it is an interesting proposal that one might be able to work on a period during which the institution may have free seats. Because I understand the company's need to have a room to benefit from. It is no use if a new employee arrives in two months' time, then you fill all the seats immediately. So there has to be some kind of room. But I am not here to say that if the Social Democrats table an amendment to this bill which might open up some kind of flexible adaptation, then we will vote against it. As a starting point, we are in favour of the draft law. And then you can be positive about a bill and still think that there may be some things that we can pay particular attention to and that we might think we should follow closely. And that's basically just what I'm trying to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013171014	Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013171016	Thank you for the commitment that you will be involved in supporting that proposal. The rapporteur also said that there was concern about the presence of A and B teams. I can guarantee that there is. What will the alternative do then?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013171030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013171032	We will take it up for discussion if that turns out to be the case. I don't think anyone can ask that guarantee. Well, I also think that sometimes we are going to be a little too distrustful or have a little mistrust of the institutions. If one imagined that there was an establishment which had some free space and could see that they simply didn't have enough staff to fill these free places, would they not open up the possibility that the municipality could direct them? I don't really believe that. I also believe that our companies out there take social responsibility, both public and private. So we are ready to try this out, perhaps with an amendment from the Social Democratic Party. Now I want to see what you're bringing in and how the rest of us are gonna deal with it. We find it interesting to try it out, but we would very much like to look at how it is going and if it turns out to be problematic, then we would like to go back up again.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013171119	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Marianne Jelved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013171128	Thank you. As our rapporteur cannot be present in this area, I should like briefly to state the views of the Radical Left: we agree that it is important to be able to attract employees from the world around us, and that is why we are also quite open to having daily offers with a language other than Danish. We can support the fact that it is both English, German and French. However, as other parties have also indicated, we also have a very important emphasis on the fact that it is a Danish speciality which we would like to see spread even more widely than it is today, namely that different children can go to the same institution and in the same school. After all, we are inclined to go to the school and to the children's institution in your area, and it is also because we have had a housing policy that has strained this vision that it is often very similar children who go to our institutions and schools. Moreover, we should put forward a longer-term strategy for gradually changing this. Therefore, when it comes to the value of having the possibility that all children of all families can in principle be in all kinds of day care institutions, with reservations about siblings, we will call for consideration to be given to whether, in the case of business children, where it is quite all right to reserve seats for employees' children, but where there can be empty seats, so that the local community should not allow children of parents who may want to put their children in such a business nursery, which may even have become famous in the community because of its fantastic pedagogics, to have a place in the business children's garden. It could also be that in a business children's garden they could get very few children into their children's institution for a period of time, and they could benefit from the fact that some more children came from whom you could learn and you could play with them. Children at the age we are talking about here are, after all, extremely quick to adapt to different types of situations, including different kinds of children in a child's institution. So I think we could have that as a perspective if it was possible to achieve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013171346	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur from the SF, and that is Mr SF. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013171358	Thank you. I shall be very brief: we cannot support this proposal. The aim of the draft law is, of course, firstly to allow municipalities and companies to decide on all the places that are in their own hands, in a private or in a outsourced institution, and that is actually the simple principle that makes it impossible for us in the SF to back it up. Firstly, it seems crazy that a company can reserve all seats. Does this mean that the seats should then be empty in the time when there are not enough children to fill up the institution? I can also see that questions are raised in several of the hearings. But secondly, and most importantly, it breaks for me to see with a basic value that our day care institutions in Denmark are for all children and from all kinds of families, whether some are employed in a company or some are on cash assistance. No matter where you come from and how you look or what you are called, the Danish day institutions are for everyone, and I fear, like the alternative, that this can help create an A and B team, especially if it becomes the start of a slip, where you open up that you can reserve all seats for a particular group in certain institutions in Denmark. My conclusion and our conclusion in the SF are so opposed to the alternative that we will not be involved in creating an A and B team, why we are voting against this proposal. The second part of the draft law, which provides for the establishment of international day-to-day offers, where the main language is either English, German or French, could be a part of the discussion if it is opened up and this bill is split up. It is also important for us, as it also says, that Danish is the main language as a starting point, and that if you open up this, it does not create integrational problems. I would just like to say to what has been said that there are some parties that welcome free institutions, for example. It was also said from up here that some of them, i.e. not the self-employed, but the private, simply have better conditions because they have more money to do well with and thus better standards. And some of them have flexible opening hours for the same reason. I actually believe that the vast majority, if not all municipal day care institutions in Denmark also want more flexible relationships with parents. I also believe that all Danish day care institutions want better standards. So if the minister is interested now I know that we will soon be discussing child policy, one could have such a principle, which was called flexibility for everyone and better norms for everyone, but also institutions that are free of all. And this proposal is contrary to why we cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013171652	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we are through the rapporteur's line, and then it is the Minister for Children, Education and Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013171709	Thank you for your comments and thank you for your kind treatment and also for a good debate. I would like to finish by explaining very briefly the background to the draft law, but also the two parts contained in the draft law, because I also think that some of the rapporteurs bring the discussion to a close when it is said that this would be a fundamental breach of what the rules and traditions are like in Denmark. That is by no means what we are talking about. The part dealing with business institutions and better conditions is part of the government's initiative to increase and develop the whole of Denmark, and is basically a small proposal which must also help to support the growth of those parts of the country where there may be a need to support it if you are to support it be hospitals with unequal working hours, large industrial companies with a diverse workforce • when recruiting employees, then you also recognise that for many it also means that there are families that often have to move with if you are to attract labour to a job in certain parts of the country. Therefore, ensuring good conditions, including for employees' children, is an important part of having a broad recruitment strategy, a broad focus on how we create growth and development in all parts of the country. This applies, of course, if you are a nurse or if you are an industrial worker or if you are a servant, that you can have changing working hours, you can have night work, and therefore it is also important to say that this can apply both to public jobs and to private jobs, but where, when you are also part of being able to offer a job, for example. is with changing working hours, may be a family where there is also some logistics and some internship that needs to fall into place. And the fact that, as a company with this bill in the future, you have the opportunity to reserve some of the places for the children of employees of companies also makes sure that it is not a lack of care provision, for example. a late afternoon, an evening or the weekend, which means that an employee will not be able to accept a job. One of the things that has also been important, and which is also reflected in the bill, is that it applies to both the director's children and the porter's children in the hospital. It is part of this that it does not fundamentally break with our thinking that we should have institutions with equal access. What is also being proposed is that it is not the employment relationship that determines whether the child can stay in the institution, and that is why one can imagine, as I can otherwise hear, that some of the rapporteurs point out that one cannot imagine that both the children of a recipient of benefits and the children of a recipient of cash benefits can also go to an institution if it is either a former employee or it is one of the places which can then be filled by the municipality's instructions in accordance with general contractual principles and agreements. I think you can sort this out locally without having to talk about A and B institutions in this way and talk about how this basically violates the principles. Then there is the part about international day offers. It is, of course, the case today that we have the opportunity to create daily offers in a wide range of languages. There we think it is important that we clearly get written into the law, that the starting point is that we speak Danish, but if it does not have integration problems associated with it, then we should also be able to approve English, German and French from the municipal council in future. This means that we will not be able to set up an Arab-speaking institution, because the starting point in the future is that we speak Danish in Danish institutions, but that we also recognise that there are companies and there are municipalities where there is a need to focus on the fact that there can be both a recruitment need for international employees, but that there are also more and more Danish employees who are posted abroad for a shorter or longer period and therefore may have a wish to have an international offer to their children. These opportunities lie in the law today, but now we are making it clear that in future it is Danish that is the main language and that, if there are no integration problems associated with it, there may also be institutions in which English, German or French are the main language. This is an increase in the number of opportunities available today. However, I also think that both parts of the bill are a natural development of our day-offer structure, where we focus much more on what kind of issues are needed, what kind of things are demanded by families, what kind of flexibility that should also be in our day-offer area. I also think it is essential that we also listen politically, even though it may be a small legislative proposal, to the needs that may have landed over the development of opportunities in this area. That is why I would just like to say that I look forward to the further examination of the committee, including the fact that we can clarify the issues that have been raised today, but also the issues that may be further raised. I hope that this will lead to more parties ultimately backing the bill, because I can hear that perhaps there is something more mythical and mythical than perhaps the real expression of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013172237	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Pernille Bendixen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013172242	Thank you very much. Compared to this point of attracting employees from outside the international day-offer, could the Minister say if it were not better for us to get our own people trained instead of trying to import people from outside?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013172304	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013172305	For me, it's not a either or. If you take the government's 2025 plan, it is both a question of ensuring that there are more Danes who are now outside the labour market entering the labour market, but that does not change the fact that we have a great many global companies, which are also Danish global companies with their head office in Denmark, who need highly specialised labour, who already have international offers, including kindergartens, linked up to the institutions or linked up in the municipalities. And there is the fact that there may be an international institution with, for example, one of them. English as a language, both important in relation to the Danish employees, who may have been 2 years abroad, are at home for 2 years and will have 2 years abroad again, and where they want their children to have a connection in their daily offers, and for those employees from abroad who come to Denmark and who help create growth and development in Denmark. So for me it's not either-or, it's both-and. It is both that we have to have more Danes on the labour market, but it is also that we have to ensure that strong Danish global companies can continue to have their head office in Denmark, and where we also have a day offer structure that can help support them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013172414	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013172416	The Enhedslisten's rapporteur talks a little about the fact that there may be a poor quality and that there may in fact also be something in relation to the agreement that could lead to social dumping, and I think that it may be very relevant to look at that area. Is this something on which the Minister can confirm or deny or has some figures or statistics, in other words, in relation to whether there is social dumping or whether the quality could be very poor in such offers?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013172443	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013172444	That is something that you are very welcome to ask questions about. I know that there is a debate going on in some places in relation to some of the institutions that do not have an agreement. What we are talking about here is, of course, an area where there are institutions already having an agreement today, but where, whether you are a private institution or a self-serving institution, you are either based on a different educational basis or on a different language basis when we are talking about some of the international day offers that already exist today. I think it is important that, with legislation, we establish what kind of languages we can see in future there can be a basis for international day-offering, and not, as it is today, where there is the possibility of creating day-offerings in all languages, but that we now make it clear that Danish is the main language, and then, if there are no integrational problems associated with it, there is the possibility of setting up in English, French and German.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013172541	Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013172542	Thank you. In the social democracy we also want flexibility for these companies, and we also want there to be business institutions. We have made this compromise proposal because we think that when there are some seats that have been vacant for a few months at least for a certain period of time it is reasonable that the municipality can assign to these seats if they are not taken up. The Minister has refused to do so. Does the Minister really believe that it may be appropriate for seats to be available month after month and that the municipality should not then have the authorising right to these seats?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013172620	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013172621	I do not think that is what will happen in practice. I think that if there are institutions where you see that, month after month, there are no employees' children who occupy the seats, you will of course use the opportunities provided by the law to have a good dialogue with the municipality to have other children appointed. But it should not be the case that, because the Social Democratic rapporteur believes that two months is the limit, there can be an institution which cannot then say yes to an employee who would actually like to take an evening shift because the institution does not have room for his or her children. Well, the question is who is to define what the limit is. I think it is more important that local authorities have the tools to assess it. If you are in a public hospital with changing working hours or you are in an industrial establishment where you can use this in relation to recruitment, it is not a question of whether it is 2 months or whether it is 11⁄2 months. Then it's a matter of what the company is, whether it be a public, whether it be a private person sees as necessary to also ensure good conditions for future employees. It may also be that you have an employee group with whom you can see that in six months' time there will be eight children, because then they will reach that age, and you would like to have the opportunity to include them, and that in the meantime you have not been obliged to admit others. It is, of course, in order to give the flexibility that the institutions can also have the dialogue with the municipality, without detailed rules on exactly how many months to fill seats.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013172750	Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013172751	We have been flexible in discussing this with the Minister, but it has been rejected purely, so we couldn't get that far. I am aware that, if there are empty seats, you will of course not receive subsidies, but you will grant subsidies to those seats which are filled and, indirectly, you will receive public subsidies. What I would like to ask is: can it be reasonable that we cannot set aside empty seats, give the municipality the opportunity to bring in some children here when we indirectly grant public subsidies to these business children's gardens?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013172824	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013172825	You don't give subsidies to empty seats. Then I would just like to comment on the fact that I should have rejected the idea that we could have a dialogue on this. I'm not familiar with that. I have replied to the radical rapporteur, who has written and asked if I would say in advance that the draft law should be split up so that a discussion could be held in committee. I have said there that I think this is a matter which must be discussed in committee and not just an issue which should be addressed to me as a minister. I think that it is a natural part of the committee's proceedings that we should take the dialogue, not that we should pre-decide with one party, whether a bill should be shared or not. That is what I have said, and I will not accept it being interpreted as if I have rejected anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013172906	Then it's mr. Jakob Silver mound, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013172913	The Minister has already mentioned this with a tightening of language requirements. It was raised a moment ago in the debate that it would be nice if it were opened up that Italian and Spanish could also be the main language. Will the Minister not confirm that what this proposal is precisely about is removing that possibility? Because if the municipality wants to, they can now, according to the law, allow day offers where both Italian and Spanish are spoken. So what is the question here is not so much about tabling amendments to open up the possibility, because one of the problems in the proposals is precisely that this proposal closes the door. Can the Minister not confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013172955	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013172956	I can confirm two things. Firstly, there is a legal basis which is perfectly clear and therefore transparent for everyone, because there have been different interpretations of it. The second thing I can confirm is that this is a narrowing in relation to today, when, in principle, a Turkish or Arabic-speaking kindergarten could be created, because we are now going in and stating that the main language is Danish as a starting point. Then there is the possibility that the municipal council, given that it does not have integration implications, may approve institutions with English, with French and with German. If there are parliamentary parties that want to have a specific discussion about Spanish, I would be happy to take it. I have not experienced that there is a demand at this stage, so I also relate to what we are actually experiencing there has been a demand for and what kind of language institutions we can see today. In addition, it is a tightening-up. It is also a clarification that Danish is the main language.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013173052	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013173053	I agree with the Minister in the recitals that day offers have been available for years, which could be reserved for companies. When it is mentioned with free access both to the doctor and to the porter, we can agree that this has been the case, for example. Over at the Rigshospitalet for many, many years. So that is already the case today. Can the Minister not confirm that the only really new thing in this context is that the institutions concerned now have the right to leave seats empty, and is it, moreover, the fact that the municipalities are then obliged to pay the full building subsidy, even if they do not take advantage of the space, or is it the intention of the legislation that the municipalities, when deliberately choosing to leave seats, reduce the building subsidy to the institutions in question?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013173151	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013173152	After all, there is always a difference between private institutions or self-serving institutions. It is not, of course, the case that the private institutions are free to authorize them today. It is also because different parental payments can be fixed. However, it is quite true that the new element, which is also the element of providing more flexibility, whether you are a public company or a private company, which can face recruitment challenges, is the possibility of being able to reserve seats and thus leave them empty for a shorter period of time. If you can see that you now need to recruit for the company and you have a clear feeling that if you have to recruit for an evening team or a weekend team, then you also need to be able to make seats available to family children if and if the family has children, because otherwise there may be a risk that the future employee will say no if they cannot make family and working life hang together.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013173251	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. If none of you object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013173312	The debate is open, and the first to have access to the platform is Mr. Jan Johansen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013173333	The Danish society is characterised by a number of fundamental rights • the right to express oneself freely, the right to assemble and unite and the right to freely practise one's religion. But freedom is a duty, because with these rights the duty is also a duty to take care of the open, democratic and equal society that we have spent more than 100 years building. We must teach in our schools and in our educational institutions values such as freedom of expression, freedom of religion and equality and show a different path from the doctrinal religious path, and we must take action against those who oppose the democratic values of Danish society. In this context, it is vital that we stop public support or the setting up of premises for associations whose purpose and behaviour are to counter or undermine democracy and fundamental freedoms and human rights. This is absolutely crucial if we are to put an end to the anti-democratic forces. It is against this background that we are today discussing a legislative proposal which translates part of the political agreement on initiatives aimed at religious preaching that was concluded at the end of the spring of this year. The agreement consists of a large number of sub-contracts and today we are discussing the implementation of the agreement which adjusts the National Education Act and thus the possibility for associations to obtain support and accommodation. It is, of course, very important to have the right balance in mind when we adjust legislation like this, but first and last we must prevent funding under the National Education Act from being given to associations that seek to work against or undermine the fundamental values of Denmark. The draft law therefore implements six initiatives to prevent support for such associations. First of all, the conditions for the public education associations are being tightened up in order to obtain support or to have premises assigned to them. This means that associations that oppose or undermine the basic values in Denmark cannot receive support or be assigned premises. Secondly, the municipality's obligation to supervise associations supported by the National Education Act is governed by law. Thirdly, the municipalities must create more transparency in relation to which associations receive support under the law. This applies to associations which receive support or are assigned premises, and to associations which are refused or associations which require the cessation or reimbursement of grants or the withdrawal of the right to use premises. Fourthly, the municipalities must be obliged to inform SKAT when the associations do not receive aid because of anti-democratic action. Fifthly, the ban on giving support to associations for worship or church activities is legalized. Sixthly, SKAT will have the possibility of informing other authorities of its own motion in relation to the re-evaluation of the possibility of granting a refusal and withdrawing a grant. This will in particular strengthen the cooperation between SKAT and the municipal councils. At the same time, it should be noted that an evaluation of the law is planned within two years of its entry into force. A legislative proposal such as this requires the right balance, so there is reason in the evaluation agreement. All in all, the draft law will contribute to the rejection by the municipality of associations which have anti-democratic purposes or behaviour that makes them unable to receive public support. It is so much the right way to go about getting rid of the forces that are working against the democratic values on which Denmark is founded. The bill is the implementation of a political agreement, and the Social Democrats support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013173819	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013173822	This bill must, of course, separate associations which oppose or undermine democracy or fundamental freedoms and human rights. That sounds very good at first hand, but then you can read down the comments on the bill under point 3.1.3.2.2. see that it is not so that it should be understood that gender discrimination is okay, but that racial discrimination is not okay. And that opens up the possibility of asking a large number of questions to the parties who are in favour of this bill about what is actually covered by it. What I would then like to ask the rapporteur is whether it will be covered by this bill if an association argues for the death penalty, as practised in the United States. Or what about the death penalty as practised in Saudi Arabia? Or what about the death penalty as practised in China? Can we get the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013173943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013173944	It is clearly my view that it is not covered by this bill. I do not think that can be attributed to this. Most associations today are covered and will still be completely covered by it. It's basically just to get rid of the forces that don't want the society we've built for a hundred years in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013174012	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013174013	So if the death penalty, as practised in the United States; the death penalty, as practiced in Saudi Arabia; the death penalty, as practiced in China, is not covered by this bill, is it to be understood that the death penalty, as practiced in three places, is in line with fundamental freedoms and human rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013174039	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013174042	I have not at all strayed from the wording mentioned by the rapporteur here and now by reading through this draft law. The legislative proposal currently before us takes account of what we have been discussing for a long time, namely that we will not give public support to people who are breaking down our society that we have built for a hundred years.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013174107	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to Mr. Jan Johansen, so we go to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013174116	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. We are a number of parties which have spent a great deal of time on the agreements that have been concluded as a follow-up to, among others. The television documentary • The mosques behind the veil and this bill is one of several legislative proposals that have come out of the many meetings that have been. After all, the draft law we discussed two points ago on stricter supervision of free and private schools has also come out of the meetings that have been held and is part of the agreement that lies. It has been a clear wish of the Danish People's Party that Parliament, government, municipalities and authorities in general should be better able to hit the Islamists on the wallet. Several, among others. Former Imam and former Islamist Ahmed Akkari, who has now seen the light, have told about how Islamists milk the public boxes by among others. to seek financial support from the municipalities, and that is what we are trying to do with this bill. This bill is another step on the road when it comes to combating Islamisation of Danish society, in addition to trying to limit the influx to Denmark, which is of course the most important thing, we also have to deal here at Christiansborg with the fact that Islam is increasingly dominant in various parts of society. And in our opinion, this is an expression of negative social development in the Danish People's Party, which must be taken seriously because we cannot escape the fact that there are elements in Islam that are incompatible on long distances with the value base on which Denmark is based and stands. It is a difficult exercise and there is no need to hide the fact that it is a difficult balancing exercise. Because if we are to be honest, it is very much about hitting those groups within the Muslim environments, which are, of course, so much involved in subversive work in society. We do not want to hit the Christian associations, which are not a problem for the country, but are, on the contrary, part of our cultural heritage. We want the next time Hizb ut-Tahrir will borrow a room of the City of Copenhagen to organise one of their events, the responsible mayor, with the law in his back, can say that unfortunately this cannot be done. We want to take subsidies and tax advantages from an association if it advises its members and others to put the Sharia rules above the rules that we have adopted here in the Folketing. That's kind of what this bill is about. In the Danish People's Party we are satisfied that it is clear from the draft law that the current legal situation is unacceptable. It should not be the case that an association can, on the one hand, work to abolish democracy in order to introduce a caliphate and, on the other hand, with municipal subsidies under the National Education Act, for example. organize football school for young people at the risk of the association's Islamist attitudes being passed on to the young people concerned. That is why, hopefully, a broad majority in the Danish Parliament wants us to change the Danish People's Party's Education Act, so that it will be clear from the legislation that people's enlightening activities, among other things. is based on democracy and freedoms, so that it is made a condition for the associations that they do not, by virtue of their purpose or by virtue of their behaviour, oppose or undermine democracy and a number of fundamental values: freedom of religion, freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and the fact that in Denmark we regard men and women as equally worthwhile. On the part of the Danish People's Party, we have emphasized that this time the Folketing has gone from word to action when it comes to fighting the extreme Muslims in society, and we think this bill is an expression of that. This is, of course, a difficult balancing exercise, but we think we are hitting it in a rather sensible way. Then there will be an evaluation in a few years' time, and then we will be able to look at what has happened. With these comments, I would like to say that the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013174433	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013174436	After all, this bill is about sorting out associations that oppose or undermine democracy or fundamental freedoms and human rights. Now the former rapporteur, Mr. Jan Johansen said he couldn't see the wordings, but they're like eight lines down in the bill. Then that's what I'm gonna ask, sir. Martin Henriksen: Will it be covered by this bill if an association argues in favour of reintroducing the right of rebuke, which in 1997 was abolished by a narrow majority here in Parliament, among other things. against the votes of the Danish People's Party and the Left, that is, the right of parents to beat their own children? If an association argues for it, will it be covered by this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013174530	I do not think it will be. I do not think it will be covered by this draft law either if, for example, there is one. is a member of an association which believes that the death penalty should be reinstated in Denmark. But, for example, if you do... In an association, the view is that a caliphate should be introduced and that the death penalty should then be introduced into the caliphate, so I would say that support is withdrawn and the funds received from the municipality can be asked to be repaid.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013174555	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013174556	But then the next natural question is whether beating your own children is in line with fundamental freedoms and human rights. Does the rapporteur think so?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013174611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013174613	I think, sir. Rune Lund is missing something. If there is an association in which children are beaten by associations, then of course it should not be subsidised. However, if you have a view that you want to change the law and reinstate the right of reproof, then I do not think that this bill will allow us to say that it is enough for that association to lose its subsidy. We want to be in the Danish People's Party, if that's what you want, sir. Rune Lund is fishing, not reintroducing the court of retribution. But there is a difference, for example. actively working to introduce a caliphate in Denmark, or whether there are some members of an association that, for example: have the view that they want to reinstate the death penalty in Denmark. There is quite a crucial difference. And I cannot understand why Enhedslisten is constantly standing up for the barricades and is opposed to implementing the initiatives that I believe all sensible people, also broadly in here, are agreed that are necessary if you want to combat what was happening in the television documentary that was behind the veil.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013174703	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to Mr. Martin Henriksen, so we go to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Martin Henriksen. Carl Holst from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013174717	Thank you. Intentions in the draft law are that no public support can be given to associations whose purpose and behaviour is contrary to or undermines democracy and fundamental freedoms and human rights. The intentions are not that of the Left, and that is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013174755	There is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur by Mr Seligman. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013174802	I think I will have to put the question to the rapporteur, whom I also put to Mr Tugendhat. Jan Johansen, whether it will be covered by the bill if an association argues for the death penalty, as practised in the United States, or the death penalty, as practised in Saudi Arabia, or the death penalty, as practised in China.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013174825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013174826	It will be covered in relation to the imposition of the death penalty if this penalty is not subject to fundamental human rights or the rule of law. In other words, it is all right to argue that there must be the death penalty, but that the way in which the death penalty, the rule of law in other words, is to be carried out must be democratic.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013174854	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013174855	Then there's just something I don't understand. What I am drilling in here is, in fact, the huge ambiguity that lies in this bill, where public authorities, on an extremely value-based basis, have to go in and assess whether some opinions are okay, while other opinions are not okay. I have to admit, and now I am talking to the rapporteur of the party that calls itself the liberal party of Denmark that I do not see in my world, and I consider myself liberal, that the death penalty, as practised in the United States or in China or in Saudi Arabia, can in any way be in accordance with fundamental freedoms or human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013174942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013174943	This is a point of view, and views are welcome, because we do not propose to have a debate with the draft law, where extreme views can also be represented. We suggest that the Danish state should not support associations, attitudes, behaviours that are solely intended to destroy Danish democracy and popular rule by public funds. That's when we're talking about not being a joke about our own money. But, of course, we understand that within the framework of what we are going to support, there are some who are going to make debates where what some would call extreme points of view is also represented.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013175031	Thank you, sir. Carl Holst. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013175058	In the Enhedslisten we have great sympathy for effective public control of public support for associations. When an association seeks grants to organise an event, the public must have the right to check whether the event actually takes place as described, and when an association claims to have a certain membership and receives subsidies on the basis of that membership, the public must also be able to check whether it is a real membership figure. Such issues are addressed in this draft law, but they do not constitute the main aim of the draft law. The background to this bill is a series of programmes that were broadcast on TV 2 in the spring of 2016, with the joint title "Mosques behind the veil', and the programmes led to a series of negotiating meetings with the Minister for Culture and the Church at the end of the table, and the meetings resulted in an agreement between the government, the Social Democrats, the Danish People's Party and the Conservatives and a vote agreement with the SF, which signed mostly in the four parties' agreement. In the Enhedslisten, we are happy to support effective control of public subsidies for associations, but we really do not like the part of the bill which, on a quite vaguely formulated and value-based basis, calls for associations that, as it is called, oppose or undermine democracy or fundamental freedoms and human rights and in associations that do not. The fact that the authorities are now about to make extremely value-based estimates is clear from what can be read in the comments on the proposal where, for example, paragraph 3.1.3.2.2. states that it is not covered by the bill if one calls for people of different races not to be able to marry one another. Frankly, it is difficult to see a sharp difference in principle here, that is, unless you think it is okay that gender discrimination is okay and that racial discrimination is not okay; unless you think that gender discrimination is in line with fundamental freedoms and human rights and that racial discrimination is not, which of course it is not. What if you think that people with African roots should not be able to become priests, is it covered or not covered by the bill? What about associations that support parents' right to beat their children, or associations that support men's right to beat their wives? What about associations which are in favour of the death penalty, such as the death penalty? practiced in the United States? From Enhedslisten's side, we are fully in line with the Lawyers' Council, which points out in its hearing that from a legal point of view it can be very difficult to distinguish between what, according to the comments, is covered by the bill and what is not. This bill concerns some important constitutional provisions and key provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights, and in this context it is deeply worrying that the government has not sent the draft law of its own motion in consultation with the Institute for Human Rights, which, however, as the Institute itself writes in an unsolicited consultation answer, has become aware of the draft law. We are happy in the Enhedslisten that the Institute's people are aware when the government is not. In the Enhedslisten, we have absolutely no sympathy for religious groups that encourage or practice violence against children, stoning, gender discrimination or handbreaking. The Enhedslisten, on the other hand, has sympathy for democracy and for the right to the three important t's, namely the right to believe in thought and the right to speak And if we in the Danish Parliament agree with this bill that the authorities should make discretionary, unclear and value-based decisions on the rights of associations based on the text of this Enhedslisten cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013175536	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013175539	Thank you. I therefore admit that this is a difficult balancing exercise, and it is also difficult to ask authorities to make value-based decisions. But we are in a value struggle and we are in a cultural struggle, and that is why we must also ask the authorities to live out the wishes that politicians have here at Christiansborg. The authorities have to be there for that too. But I would like to ask Mr. Rune Lund about something, because we've seen what's going on. Now, I know that the television documentary 'Mosques behind the veil' has been part of the debate, and that is also an important part of the debate, but this has been going on for many years. So what is Enhedslisten's idea of how to organise a better supervision, a better control, so that we, for example. It is not clear that public subsidies are being given to associations which believe that women should not be on the labour market or that public subsidies are not being given to associations such as the United Kingdom. is working to introduce a caliphate in Denmark? What is Enhedslisten's bid on how we come after those people and take the money from those people?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013175638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013175640	I have the basic view that democracy is strong. I have the fundamental view that freedom of expression is central to the fight against insane and extremist attitudes. I do not think that we need to make unclear legislation that destroys our rule of law and our rule of law. I believe that with the good arguments and the right arguments we can win this debate. I'm not scared, like Mr. Knox. Martin Henriksen. I think we can win the debate and I think we can win it without destroying our democracy and our legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013175721	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013175723	Democracy is only strong if we fight for it and if we give the authorities the necessary tools to crack down on those who do not want democracy and who, for example, want women not to participate in the labour market, that women should be oppressed. So, the authorities can only stand strong in that fight if we politically give them the tools to stand strong. Well, then, sir. Rune Lund disagrees with where the cut should be. It is fair enough that Enhedslisten believes that one should come after a religion because they believe that the priest should be a man. I do not think that is reason enough to come after a religion or after an association because they have those views. You may have those views, because we have freedom of religion in Denmark. We in the Danish People's Party think that it is too far-reaching if, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections. as a union goes out and tells or advises a family or a woman that they are not allowed to take part in the labour market at all. This is too far-reaching in our view. So it's an assessment of where the cut should be, where the limit should go. What I still need to get an answer to is what Enhedslisten's bid for, how we're going to come after these associations, is because if Enhedslisten's bid is just that we have to go into discussion with them, the reality will be that we keep the current legislation and then they will still get subsidies for their various activities. After all, they will still receive subsidies to work for example to introduce a caliphate in Denmark. They will still receive subsidies for this. We can then have a debate with them, but is it really necessary to give them money for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013175837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013175838	Sir. Martin Henriksen's remarks completely show the huge problem with this bill, namely how unclear it is. Sir. Martin Henriksen stands down in his place and argues for what Mr. Martin Henriksen thinks there's something in this bill. I could very easily imagine that there would be many different assessments around the country of what this bill actually covers. I have to say that basically I think it is a problem that we are undermining democracy in the fight against insane and extremist attitudes. I hope that Mr. Martin Henriksen is very aware that one of the things that Islamic State and crazy extremists use to recruit, for example. the argument that democracy is hypocrisy, and that democracy only applies to those who have certain positions, while it does not apply to a minority, if that minority has some positions that are deviant. So here we really have a problem to deal with, and the problem is best addressed by defending democracy and developing democracy and not destroying democracy and undermining democracy, as Mr. Martin Henriksen will.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013175956	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013180000	Thank you. It is a difficult matter, it is not black and white, and therefore no one has ever said in the negotiations that it was easy. I think that Mr. Rune Lund makes it a little easy because we are in a situation that has a cause, and the reason is that there are forces that are increasing in this country and that do not want to be part of Danish society. There we have a political obligation to listen to the people who are part of the Danish democratic folk regime and to safeguard their integrity at the expense of the outside forces that will undermine it. Therefore, my question is silent in relation to section 4 of the purpose clause, what we are talking about when we talk about counter-working and undermining. These are the issues that the rapporteur has raised. It is acts and phrases that aim to damage and destroy the foundations of the Danish people's rule. That is why my question is this: does the rapporteur believe that the taxpayers of Denmark will support associations which aim to damage and destroy the foundations of the Danish people's government?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013180125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013180126	In fact, I find it embarrassing to hear what the Left is arguing in this case, a party that calls itself the Liberal Party of Denmark. Here we are adopting a law that is extremely unclear, where it is completely fluctuating in the wind, which positions are covered and which positions are not covered. I find it extremely problematic that such unclear legislation should be made, in which someone is tried to be hit, but in reality it is very wide-ranging. I cannot understand why one can seriously call oneself a liberal party when one undermines democracy by making such unclear legislation which is so imprecise and which helps to destroy fundamental freedoms in Denmark. You can actually have a little fun at the fact that this bill is intended to hit associations that are working against or undermining democracy or fundamental freedoms and human rights. I have to say that the actual presentation of this bill and the parties that vote in favour clearly opposes democracy and fundamental freedoms and human rights. Is the Left actually behind this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013180240	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013180244	I simply repeat my question quietly: does the rapporteur think that it is fair to use taxpayers' money in the form of public education funds to support associations which are openly aimed at damaging and breaking down the foundations of the Danish people's government? The Left, the Liberal Party of Denmark, does not. But does the rapporteur think that it is fair to use public taxpayers' money to support associations which are openly aimed at damaging and breaking down the foundations of the Danish people's government? That is what the text says.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013180324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013180326	As it is very clear, I do not think that we can make any legislation on this which is precise. That's the whole problem here. The problem is, of course, that if we are to live in a liberal democracy and protect civil, liberal freedoms, we need to adopt laws that have a precise definition. And the problem with this law is that it's not exactly accurate. And excuse me, any liberal-thinking person should agree with me on that point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013180404	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jeppe Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013180409	Jeppe Jakobsen is my name, yes. It certainly identifies socialism very well that it is only democratic if you throw tax dollars at it. 'Cause this isn't a question of attitude police. It's just about what really needs to be supported with tax dollars. But to return to the answer given by Mr. Rune Lund gave my colleague Mr. Martin Henriksen, on what should be done, I would say that I understood that we had to use more democracy and dialogue to stifle the problem of the Islamisation of certain environments in Denmark. Then I would just like to point out in silence that that is what has been tried so far, and I would just like to ask Mr. Rune Lund, how he feels about this fight and whether it's a fight we're winning right now by using debate and democracy and talking with these environments. Is it working? Do we see a decline in those attitudes in those environments? Is it the case that we are victorious by using the tools that Mr. Rune Lund suggests we need?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013180517	It was sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, who spoke. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013180521	One might say that the real problem is that the last fifteen years since 11 September 2001 have not been used the tools proposed by the Enhedslisten. Since 11 September, we have seen a strategy in which we have wanted to fight hard, where there have been restrictions on fundamental freedoms, where we have seen wars being waged and where we have seen that it has not helped anything at all. At best, it has had no effect at all. After all, we have seen how terrorist attacks have taken place here during the summer, by vulnerable young men, individual individuals, have committed terrible acts of terror. This is an example of the fact that the strategy pursued for 15 years has been totally misguided and has not led to the results that have been desired, even though fundamental rights such as freedom of expression have been curtailed. So all thinking people should really ask themselves the question: is it not time we tried to do something else? Isn't it time we didn't restrict democracy? Is it not time we tried to strengthen fundamental rights and, at the same time, do what is most important in combating this, namely to ensure prevention and ensure that there are jobs and educational opportunities, and that there are enough resources in the municipalities to tackle these young people from primary school who are at risk of being recruited by crazy extremists?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013180648	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013180651	I am a little confused, because the rapporteur is now talking about war being waged. As I understand it here, it is a bill on associations in Denmark, and I know we have not waged war against any associations here in Denmark, but rather had the dialogue and talked about that now everything must be much better and you must make sure to get closer to our societies here in Denmark. And I haven't seen that we've put up as hard a fight as Mr. Rune Lunde thinks we've done. So I just want to ask again: how much has all the dialogue that we have had with these organisations and that Hizb ut-Tahir was allowed to talk over in the Black Diamond about how important it is that you should be allowed to kill Danish soldiers • all this openness • helped to solve the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013180744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013180746	The questioner must admit that since September 11, 2001, it has been hard to fight hard: either you are with us or you are against us. It has been the fundamental approach to restricting rights, democracy and freedom of expression. How should we counter crazy attitudes? Should we do so by restricting democracy and thereby giving extremists an argument that democracy is hypocrisy, that democracy is only for people who speak and sound like Mr. Martin Henriksen, for example.? These are precisely the arguments put forward by the Danish People's Party here in the Assembly Hall, and this is precisely what makes it possible to fertilise the ground and create a basis for insane extremists to use it in their arguments when they try to recruit vulnerable young men who should not be recruited by IS, but should have a helping hand in education, with jobs and to get a place in society that is of course not with religious, violent extremists.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013180853	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark's turn.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013180856	Thank you. I mean, I usually think that mr. Rune Lund is a very reasonable gentleman, and I wasn't really going to take the floor either. But I'm actually looking at this bill a little low-practical. For me, this is about not paying out subsidies, that is to say, our tax dollars to associations in Denmark that undermine democracy or fundamental freedoms. In other words, we are not paying subsidies to the football club, which does not accept gender equality which does not accept homosexuals who do not accept democracy. It's the low-practical thing for me: they don't need tax dollars. They're allowed to think what they want, but they don't need tax dollars. Now the rapporteur said that anyone who votes for this proposal or works for this proposal is fundamentally opposed to democracy and human rights. So, are we fighting against human rights and democracy because we do not want to give tax dollars to anti-democratic associations? Does the rapporteur really think so?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013180958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013181000	I try to explain to the best of my ability that this bill is extremely unclear and extremely vague and that it leaves it up to the authorities to make some estimates on an extremely vague basis. In this debate, I have raised the question of whether the draft law, for example. the death penalty, as practised in the United States, Saudi Arabia or China. But the reason why I am saying what I am saying in voting for this bill is that this is then a clear undermining of fundamental freedoms, because it undermines the rule of law, because it is an extremely unclear legislative proposal, where it is completely hovering in the wind, who it hits and who it does not hit. A party such as the SF, which I have great respect for, and which is a party which, together with the Alternative, is close to us and which has a long and proud tradition of keeping the tab high in the area of justice policy, is also a party that has chosen to join in this context. And I have to say that we simply do not agree. We believe that freedom of expression should be defended, that freedom of expression should be used to fight crazy attitudes, but we should not start making unclear legislation where it is completely vague how this legislation will actually affect in reality, because it will be up to authorities around the country to assess whether, for example, it will be up to the authorities around the country. The death penalty is included in this or the death penalty is not included.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013181137	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013181139	This isn't about freedom of speech. They may think, whatever they want, they can say, whatever they want, as long as it is within the limits of the law. After all, this is about the tax dollars that I and everyone else in this room are paying for, being used in a sensible way, and I would like to see them go to associations that support a popular purpose. On the other hand, I do not want them to go to anti-democratic associations. I mean, basically, it's about who we're gonna spend the state money on... not about freedom of expression. And I would just like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur think, for example, that it is sensible to spend tax dollars on associations that fight fundamental freedoms? Does the rapporteur consider this to be sensible?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013181218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013181219	I think it is unreasonable to make legislation that should try to hit this when the legislation is so unclear. Now Mr. Jacob Mark, if they're associations with legitimate opinions, they won't be affected by this. There may be a lot of legitimate opinions that you can have in this country, but which are still undemocratic and are contrary to fundamental freedoms and human rights. So I have to say that the remarks made by Mr. Jacob Mark is coming here with me, but he just makes it clear to me that it is also rather unclear to Mr. Jacob Mark, what's actually included in this bill and what's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013181302	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013181305	Thank you. I have listened to the rapporteur and heard him say that everything that is happening in this bill is completely wrong. We just have to tell the rapporteur that with this bill we are not restricting freedom of expression at all. We know it is difficult when we go out and make such legislation here, but can the rapporteur tell me how the legislation would have been shaped if we had closed all the gaps? It's like an agreement. You make some settlements, and then you go out and figure out how to put it into practice. I'm sure the municipalities will manage this in a good way. You also have lawyers sitting here to assess this. In fact, I think that you blow it up to something that is not going to be the big problem. I think we can solve the problem. We're supposed to do something, I'd say to Mr. Knox. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013181407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013181409	But why should we do something that destroys our fundamental democratic rights? I have tried to ask various questions, including to Mr. Jan Johansen, about what is actually covered by this bill. In case there was a mr. Jan Johansen in a municipality and had to take a position on this, I think that the assessment of what would be to oppose fundamental freedoms and human rights would be different from if the assessment were to be made by a Mr. Martin Henriksen in another municipality. That's what I'm just trying to get here quietly: this bill is extremely unclear. Can we argue in favour of the death penalty in China, the United States or Saudi Arabia? For example: argue that wheelchair users cannot challenge the position of priest? It must be argued that LGBT persons must not hold positions such as: Priest? And when is this covered in relation to football clubs, i.e. if an anti-democratic attitude emerges there, as has also been mentioned, is it if it has been put on the football field, or is it if it has been tabled at a meeting? What if it has been tabled at a meeting where it has not been part of an item that has been on the agenda, but has just been made as a comment during the meeting of the board of the football club? In other words, where should the limit be drawn, in relation to when something is contrary to fundamental freedoms and human rights, so that it justifies the withdrawal of support? That is what is so vague and vaguely worded. And that is why we have a problem with legislative proposals like this, because unclear legislation seems to me to be an undermining of the rule of law. I also see an undermining of the rule of law as a breach of fundamental freedoms and human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013181555	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013181557	I haven't heard sir. Rune Lund comes up with some solution to the problem since he's so violently opposed to this bill. But I can only reassure the rapporteur that I am almost sure that in the municipalities you will have to deal with this bill in a good way and find some good solutions, as Mr. Rune Lund knows it happens when you are out making some agreements: then you find out between the parties too. For the horror scenario, as Mr. Rune Lund blows up here and now, I'm quite sure you're gonna go to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013181634	When the President gets up, it is a cautious sign that time has passed. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013181640	It will be so exciting to see if you in the municipalities mean what Mr. Martin Henriksen believes that this should only affect Muslims, or that it should affect all those who have different attitudes which, in one way or another, undermine democracy or fundamental freedoms and human rights. As I have argued here today, I believe that it affects a wide range of attitudes that can be put forward by many different people, whatever religious background they may have.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013181709	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013181719	Thank you. I must say, in the absence of our rapporteur, that this bill is part of an agreement on initiatives aimed at anti-democratic religious ministers, if one can put it that way, and that is an agreement that the Liberal Alliance can support. We agree that associations must build on a basis compatible with Danish democracy understanding in order to be able to obtain support under the People's Education Act. We think it is quite reasonable to tighten up the possibility of obtaining subsidies and assigning premises to associations which are clearly opposed to fundamental values in Danish society. We are also looking forward to closer cooperation between the municipalities and SKAT, which the proposal proposes. We in Denmark are faced with a quite obvious dilemma when it comes to religious preachers, who bypass the rules in force, but also abuse the freedoms to preach hatred and engage in democratic subversive activity. It may be said in this way that tolerance should not always be able to contain intolerance. Among other things: Better channels of communication between public authorities are a necessity here, and we also see this in the draft law, and we look forward to it, among other things. can provide a better framework for this case. So with these comments, I would like to say that the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013181853	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013181858	Now I am getting a little confused because the Liberal Alliance is not part of the agreement from which this bill actually comes, and I see there is a huge problem with legal certainty in this bill. This is something that the Liberal Alliance claims that the Liberal Alliance, as a liberal party, is very concerned about everyday life. I have to ask again what is really in this draft law about which positions are opposed to fundamental freedoms and democracy and which do not. If this is to be understood, and this is a question I would like to raise: if an association or, under the auspices of the association, statements are made which are contrary to this, it will then be able to obtain subsidies within the meaning of the bill if the association proves that it is persons who have made the statements that have a psychiatric diagnosis, for example.?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013182003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013182005	I don't really know if I want to take part in this continuing game with these thought examples that Enhedslisten finds occasion to bring forward. So what I would rather use my gunpowder on is to argue that the purpose of this legislation is certainly well understood in the municipalities and is certainly able to draw some sensible lines in the dilemmas that are quite obvious here. I heard Enhedslisten's rapporteur mention in his remarks earlier that we should have a razor-sharp principle dividing line. Thanks for the coffee, I'm just saying. How many laws can you find a razor-sharp principle dividing line? After all, we have countless laws where we leave it to an estimate, because you can't always lay a dividing line, no matter how convenient it would be. So you speak against better knowledge from Enhedslisten's side. It is only to problematize some apparently absurd discussion. I don't want to spend time on it, because you can just keep doing it. We've heard it all afternoon... it doesn't move anything in my opinion. I believe that the municipalities understand this message now in law, and I have full confidence in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013182131	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013182133	The problem is that this message is extremely unclear. And I have to keep asking questions, because we simply have to find out what is covered by this bill and what it is that is not covered by this bill, unless the rapporteur can confirm that this is all about hitting Muslims who have anti-democratic views. The rapporteur could answer that question. But I would also like to ask one question: What about associations that urge to follow guidelines that correspond to the guidelines of Jehovah's Witnesses not to participate in political elections? Will they be covered by the bill and thus also prevented from receiving subsidies within the meaning of the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013182213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013182214	As I've already said, I'm not taking part in this hypothetical guessing game. I don't think that's fair. I think that Enhedslisten can ask these questions in connection with the bill's further treatment rather than cultivating that a little absurd discipline in bringing out examples: What about it, and what about it? I have said once that I believe that the municipalities are perfectly capable of making a natural estimate on the basis of these principles, which they also fully agree with us in • I am sure that we are not going to get into a situation where we are throwing money at people we cannot reconcile with at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013182255	Thank you, sir. Villum Christensen. There are no more brief comments and the next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013182305	Thank you. I think I will start by really commending the enterprise of Enhedslisten. I think it is true that there is some ambiguity in the wording of this draft law: the proposed provision will mean that associations whose purpose or behaviour is contrary to or undermine democracy or fundamental freedoms and human rights cannot be supported under the law. I think we should be the first to say that we are in complete agreement with associations that are spreading, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of financing anti-democratic messages by means of the means of public information. I think all parties in the Folketing agree on that. I remember from the parliamentary elections last year that there was a youth organisation that decided that they would encourage people not to vote because they were tired of the political debate in Denmark. It was not because they were tired of a particular political ideology, but they were tired of political culture. They were a little tired of the way politicians talked. They were tired of the distance between Christiansborg and the citizens. That is why they called, and it did so on various occasions, I do not know whether they have received support for the Danes not to vote. This is an example of something which, in relation to the regulations contained in it, is not legal, but at the same time they criticise a form of government, a way of managing our country, which, in relation to what is contained in this bill, must be legal. So there are some limits that are a little bit hard to understand. I fully agree with Enhedslisten that it is inappropriate in terms of legal certainty and in terms of our democracy at all. What we in the Alternative also find really problematic with regard to this bill, and which we are really sorry about, is that, on the basis of a documentary on television in the spring of 2016, the parties to the agreement will choose to present such a comprehensive bill. Because that's what the bill even says. is based on this TV documentary. Is it forward-looking practice for us in Denmark to legislate on the basis of a television documentary? That is really worrying about our democratic practice. Where is the mapping that shows us all, all of us politicians here in the Folketing, that this bill is necessary? Because if it were there and it could convince me that it was necessary, we would certainly go in and support it. But there's no mapping. No one has sat down and tried to see what the scale of the problem really is, and that must be our job as politicians. I was there the day before yesterday, I think it was, in consultation with both the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Education on the sharing of naked images on the Internet, because we were some who had criticised that it is going on to a large extent and wanted to hear what would be done about it. There the Ministers said that they had commissioned a study on the extent of the problem and the extent of the problem and that they were waiting for that study to find out how best to deal with it. I have great respect for this because we know that a job is being done out there that we, as politicians, can lean on when we have to answer yes or no to something. I really miss that here. So I would like to call on the parties to the agreement to actually do the same as the other ministers did in this consultation, namely to know the extent of the problem before we find a solution. I would also like to call for other things, and that is to have a human rights assessment of this bill. Having a human rights assessment should be something we did automatically, no matter what bill we put forward. Then I think there is another issue that is problematic, and that is the level of bureaucracy that the draft law certainly entails. After all, the government prides itself on this in the Danish Parliament, and it is not only the government, but all parties that want to reduce the bureaucracy in Denmark in the public administrations. But this means more bureaucracy, because the municipalities are going to have to exercise more supervision. So there's something here that doesn't really fit together. But basically, this bill, at least on our assumption, is based on mistrust and on a fear of a minority group on the basis of a television documentary. This is excessive regulation, and it is also unfair. I would therefore ask that we do not shoot grey sparrows with guns, but that we postpone these treatments until a statement has been made to show us all how big the problem really is. With these comments, I must conclude that the alternative cannot support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013182741	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013182745	It is more a question than a comment: does the alternative mean that we need cultural crowns, tax crowns, to support associations that fight democracy, which do not support gender equality, such as the United States? do not accept homosexuality? I know, of course, that the alternative, just as I would like, is that there will be more cultural crowns. I feel that until then, you have to use the cultural crowns that are, like, properly. Does the alternative really mean that we should spend cultural and tax dollars on such associations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013182819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013182821	No, the alternative doesn't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013182824	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013182826	So I have to ask: what will the alternative then suggest to ensure that it is not the case that you do not spend cultural or tax dollars on it in Denmark? This is actually the problem that this bill is trying to solve, so you spend the tax dollars and the cultural crowns the best possible on associations that are, in fact, grass-roots.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013182848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013182850	First of all, I would like to reiterate my point. We do not know whether that is the case, because no one has studied it, so we do not know the extent of the problem. That's one. The second is that there is an existing supervision which, as a general rule, works quite well, as far as we are aware, but we have not examined it as such, so we do not know that either. Thirdly, and I believe that the SF is with the alternative that we would very much like to work for the absence of anti-democratic attitudes in public space supported by cultural means, but let us do much more prevention so that the potentially anti-democratic, radicalised people do not get to where they start spreading these messages in public space. We would like to work for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013182930	Thank you to Mrs Magdalene Maier, there are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013182941	Thank you. It is a really great and generous tradition that we have in Denmark, a fantastic freedom right, that a circle of values that are not similar to the values of the majority can form an association, receive subsidies and have rooms assigned to public activities, but not if it is a matter of worship or ecclesiastical acts. In fact, restricting freedom is very difficult in the real world. This will require precise guidance with examples, so as not to underdo example collections that authorities can use to have a common administration in 98 municipalities. We are also talking about legal certainty in this context. I quote from L 13: "Conventions whose purpose or conduct is contrary to or undermines democracy or fundamental freedoms and human rights shall not be eligible for grants or premises under this law. It is clear, of course, if it is absolutely clear what their purpose is and if it is equally clear what behavior is to be considered and what kind of behavior shows one thing or the other. It has been landmark in our country that we have had a very great freedom in this area. It's part of our democratic culture, and we've had the common understanding for decades. I was about to say centuries, but now I haven't entirely justified that, but at least for decades, it's better to get it out of the open and take the discussions in openness and deal with it there than to make it discrediting, so it's happening in giddyness. It is much, much more difficult to get to grips with and deal with. One can discuss whether the legislative changes proposed can be called censorship in certain situations or mind control in other situations or limitation of freedom of expression in third situations. It is clear that actions can be a threat to democracy. I fully agree with that. But there is a big difference between actions and behavior. There is a big difference between actual actions and having big words in your mouth and making oneself aware of it. For example, was it... subversive or undermining for democracy, that in Hungary there were voting citizens in Hungarian democracy who argued against voting, when the Hungarian government had issued a referendum on whether Hungary should accept or be against the EU's decision to allocate refugees with quotas to the Member States? Why did some go out and argue against that referendum, against the use of one's vote in the referendum? They did so because there is a rule in Hungary that 50% vote in favour before a referendum is legal and the result can be achieved. Is that something that undermines democracy? For me, it is part of democracy that such situations can be used to assert themselves with its political views in full openness in society, as in this case the Hungarian one. I can also see from the bill that the municipalities must supervise and assess whether an association meets the requirements of the bill. I would just like to stress very strongly that judging is not the same on a case-by-case basis, and therefore I recommend that the Ministry really makes a proper guidance catalogue of what it is that you should be able to make. It must also have consequences for an association if a member of the association makes an unfortunate statement or a lecturer argues for a caliphate. It is usually the case in Denmark that the association's board of directors draws the association, and not a member or lecturer who has been inside for one reason or another. The municipalities must publish lists of who has received grants, but they must also publish lists of who has not received grants, who has been refused. It is again something that is not very typical of Denmark. After all, we do not publish lists of those who were not recruited or lists of those who did not receive funds from a fund which allocates funds for cultural purposes. I think you should think carefully about that. It has been a common position for many, many years that it is better for everyone to be able to express their views and discuss them openly. I think it is very worrying that expressions such as undermining democracy and fundamental freedoms and human rights are being used. What does it mean to undermine? When's the limit reached? When is it not to undermine? When is the criticism that is legal in a democracy? This may mean that it is no longer within the dial to use the expression that associations can attack human rights and the way they are formulated in the European Convention on Human Rights. This is something that is publicly included in our debate in this Chamber. Is it to undermine human rights, to criticise the European Convention on Human Rights in public? With those words, I would just like to emphasise that I do not think this is an easy piece of legislation and it questions how to behave in one way or another in order to be worthy of a subsidy as an enlightening association. You really need to think about how to behave. It will actually be interesting to see how it is implemented. I must stress that the Radical Left does not support the proposal, but I look forward very much to seeing how the legislation will be implemented in practice. I'm gonna be very excited about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013183623	Thanks to Marianne Jelved. There are no brief comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Jacob Mark of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013183634	Thank you. The public awareness activities in Denmark are a gift to our society; I really think so. I have been in Køge Municipal Council and in the Culture Committee for 6 years, and when you sit on a cultural committee in a city council, you experience how many crazy, amazing, strange, funny and good things our public education funds are going to do. Most importantly, they are going to create strong communities that make people happy and create joy and friendships, and also, I believe, the communities that are the strongest opportunity to fight some of the radicalised forces around Denmark. That is why it is so important that we use the public awareness funds correctly. The people's enlightenment that we are using is widely used to create and increase understanding of democracy and freeness of speech. For me it's the core of it just to make it clear what the public awareness funds are to be used for: community, freedom and freeness of speech. We must support and disseminate this. Then I called this bill low-practical, and I think it is, and I think it is, as a former member of the Committee on Culture too. For no, we should not use tax dollars, cultural crowns that could have been used better, to support associations working against communities working against freedom, working against human rights, working against democracy. Of course we should not spend our common money on them. We must then use them for those who actually support democracy, who support the freedoms, who support the strong communities. There should be no tax-paid associations in any municipalities in Denmark where members experience that they have no right to their basic freedom. There should not be tax-paid associations where you propagandize and where you are not allowed to love whoever you want. There should be no tax-paid associations that teach children to fight against democracy or undermine democracy. They must think exactly what they want out there, and they must say what they want to do and that has some of the debate revolved around, that is, this freedom of speech • but our common tax dollars should not go to support actions or associations that fight democracy. I really don't think they should. I welcome this bill and I believe that in future we will have an important task in helping the municipalities. I think that is right, and I have also heard some of the rapporteurs ask whether this is easy. I would just like to say again, as a former Councillor, that it has never been easy to supervise, and in many places I do not think that good enough supervision has been carried out. For it is a very, very downgraded area out in the municipalities. So I hope that this bill will help to ensure that you focus on that supervision, so that we spend the money in the best way possible. Should there be any ambiguity, there should be places where the municipalities feel they can't manage the task, I believe, as I do in all other cases, that we must engage in dialogue with the municipalities, with the KL, and that we must resolve the problems along the way. I am sure we will solve that, because we all have an interest in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013183950	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013183952	Like Mrs Marianne Jelved, I think it is very important that a very comprehensive catalogue should come out to the municipalities, which, like the one that describes the opinions or views covered by this bill and which opinions are not. But I would like to ask Mr. Jacob Mark, whether it is covered by the bill, if an association argues for the death penalty, as it is practised in the United States, or as it is practised in Saudi Arabia, or as it is practised in China. Is this contrary to or in accordance with what is defined as fundamental freedoms and human rights or democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013184037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013184039	Like the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, I do not want to enter into a debate on exactly what has been included and excluded from this bill, most of all because I am not a lawyer. I would never be employed in Køge Municipality's cultural department to sit and oversee this. However, I have to say that this has always been the case; it is nothing new, even with this legislative proposal, that there is a perfectly clear framework for how supervision is to work. It has always been the case that, from time to time and on a case-by-case basis, it has been the case that the associations comply with what is stated in the National Education Act. It has always been unclear, but it is an assessment that is taking place locally, and I think that will work out. I am sure that we will still be able to find out, and if we cannot do that, we will have to take the dialogue to the Folketing, and then I am absolutely convinced that we will get it sorted out, because we all have an interest in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013184128	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013184130	But the problem is that it is completely unclear. And as things stand now, there is no clear guidance to the municipalities on how to interpret this. I would also like to delve into paragraph 3.1.3.2.2 of the comments, which states that associations calling for the use of religious courts, which decide on the basis of religious writings and dogmas, instead of and contrary to the laws adopted by the Folketing, will be cut off from subsidies within the meaning of the bill. Can the rapporteur explain whether it also includes associations calling for the use of religious courts in line with the Jewish Society in Denmark, the Catholic Church, the Methodist Church and the Christian Orthodox Churches?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013184220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013184221	As I said to the rapporteur earlier, I believe, as a politician and not a lawyer, that it must be the task of lawyers in local supervision to assess whether or not they comply with the law. Should there be any ambiguity, it should be the case that better guidance is needed, then it must be our job as politicians to ensure it. And I think that process is important for the future, and that is also how I finished my speech. But I cannot help thinking about it, because I actually asked Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur in a brief comment whether he believes that tax money should be given to associations such as the United Kingdom. do not comply with fundamental freedoms and do not accept gender equality. And the rapporteur could not answer that question. Well, I just have to say that there's my attitude just that we don't think that we should use tax dollars on that, and that's why we're in this deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013184310	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. There is another brief comment that came to the end, and that is from Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013184319	It was just the last cues that came from the rapporteur. After all, there are ordinary Danes who are employed quite commonly in the public sector or in the church, for example, under the auspices of the church, who are against homosexuals and do not want to marry homosexuals. In fact, there are also those who do not want to shake hands with women. Is that undermining democracy in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013184344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013184346	I want to make this very clear, as I said when we were discussing free schools. I will not support schools in Denmark, whether it is free schools, private schools, or associations that argue that you are not free to choose for yourself the one you love. I don't think we should use tax dollars on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013184405	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013184408	Apparently, there is a difference between who does one thing or the other or who thinks one thing or the other or who has a behavior of one kind or another. I can almost understand from the rapporteur that if it is a Dane who looks like us, it will do better than if it is someone who is not like us. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20161013184426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013184428	As I said about both the free schools, the private schools and also about the associations, no matter where you come from, no matter what you believe in. I personally do not believe in any religion... you have to accept fundamental freedoms. You have to accept that you are allowed to love whoever you want, otherwise I do not think you should have support from Danish tax dollars.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013184449	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. There are no more brief comments. And I ask whether there are any representatives of the Conservative People's Party present, of course understood: who wishes to speak. There isn't. Then the trip has come to the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013184508	Thank you. I barely have to say anything. I think that the rapporteurs and the parties to the agreement have responded very well to the numerous questions that have been asked. I also think, if I may say so, that the draft law and the comprehensive comments and comments on the individual provisions answer a wide range of questions. I know, sir. Rune Lund has already asked a number of questions through the committee, and they will of course also be answered so that we can have as solid a basis as possible for the municipalities, which have to make decisions as to who they can refuse support. After all, the People's Education Act has been created to support our democracy and citizenship. That is why it is no wonder that we would like to see an administration of the People's Education Act that meets that objective. And that does far, by far, the vast majority of the public-enlightening associations. They will not be affected by the bill at all. It is targeted at the associations which are opposed to the aims of the law. The parties to the agreement will neither hinder the formation of associations nor interfere with the free culture of debate. Both are, after all, essential to Danish democracy. However, we do not want to give public support to associations which oppose or undermine the values that give rise to our having the law. This is true both in relation to receiving support under the National Education Act and also in relation to on other grounds, for example. through the rules of local authority, to receive support. Therefore, it is also important that municipalities follow up and take their supervisory obligation seriously. Overall, supervision must be strengthened and carried out on the basis of a risk-based approach so that resources are used most appropriately. I would like to emphasise that the draft law applies to all types of associations and not only to religious associations. It is therefore still the case that activities of a political or religious nature are to be treated in the same way as other activities of a public nature. The municipalities cannot therefore exclude associations from support simply because they are based on a political or religious basis. So the bill will not interfere with freedom of association, freedom of religion or freedom of expression, nor will it discriminate against certain types of association. Therefore, the bill does not raise any questions in relation to the Constitution or Denmark's international obligations. As has been said so many times, among other things. by Mr. Jacob Mark, the bill does not concern the freedom to believe and think, but it concerns the freedom to spend others' money. That's what this is about. It is about who can get subsidies, and not who can believe and mean different things. This is, of course, equivalent to the fact that Nazis and Islamists and similar movements have for many years also been unable to use the law of free school to advance their anti-democratic views. That was something we had changed at a time when I was Minister for Education, with a very broad majority, and nobody has had problems with that ever since. Nor do I believe that we will have any problems with what I hope we will adopt with this bill. You have to think what you want, but you can't get taxpayers' money for anything. With regard to what Mr. Rune Lund calls confusion, I would say, as several have also said, Mr. Villum Christensen, that somewhere the border has to go. All our answers to questions today, what the rapporteurs have replied to, what the draft law mentions, and what we will respond to in committee, will all help those who have to administer the law to find a way of setting the limit in the right place. That is why I would also like to assure Mrs Jelved that this bill does not go against the sound principle she mentioned, namely that it is healthy that all opinions are brought to light. Well, then the crazy opinions can be countered. That was John Stuart Mill's reason for freedom 150 years ago. And that freedom is fully preserved, it is not violated by this proposal. And, in the interests of safety, I would also like to stress that the fact that there is a lecturer who says something crazy in an association does not mean that the association will then be on the blacklist. It is only if the association says: Yes, it is our mission, that is what we want with this association. Well then, it will be just as if they want to set up a free school, then they cannot get public support for it. With these words, I would like to express my support for the debate. Although it has been long and there have been many questions, I think the answers to the questions have been helpful, also for the further work on the legislative proposal. So I look forward to the discussion in committee, which I hope will provide further clarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013185129	There is a brief comment to be made on the Minister from Mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013185131	We have had a debate today, but it has not become more clear to me in the course of the debate how to define more clearly in local authorities what it means to oppose or undermine democracy and fundamental freedoms and human rights. I would very much urge the Minister to have a very detailed catalogue. I have already sent out a number of questions, and it is quite possible that I will come up with many more, because if the government itself does not want to take the initiative to make it clear how this legislation is to be interpreted and implemented around the municipalities, then we must be those who help protect civil, liberal democracy and a legal situation in which legislative proposals are adopted on a clear basis, so that we do not undermine the legal certainty of citizens and so that we do not undermine democracy. In this context, however, I would like to ask whether this is true, for example. is in accordance with or whether it will be covered by the bill here if an association argues for the death penalty, as it is practised in the United States, China and Saudi Arabia respectively.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013185247	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013185248	I am aware that there has been little difficulty in interpreting what is meant by the provision in the law of free school that schools should prepare pupils for a society of freedom and popular rule. There is a Ministry of Education supervision of the free schools, which is being tightened up. I have not heard that there should be any great difficulty in finding out which schools have Islamist or Nazi characters or something comparable to that. I don't think it's as hard as Mr. Knox. Rune Lund will make it, and I look forward to the fact that in committee we can give some answers to all his questions which can reassure him. It is much better than we chopping sticks here at first reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013185350	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013185352	But the whole point of this is to define clearly what it means to oppose fundamental freedoms and human rights and democracy, because if anyone asks me, it is clear that if you argue in favour of the death penalty, both as practised in the United States, in Saudi Arabia and China, you are working against it. It is against fundamental freedoms and human rights if we argue in favour of both gender discrimination and racial discrimination. I understand that gender discrimination is okay according to this bill. It's not okay for me if you think that women or disabled people can't be priests, but is that okay according to the bill? We have not received any clear answers to this at first reading, and I think that a minister who represents a liberal party, a so-called liberal party, would perhaps be tempted to say that I must be seriously concerned when he sees such unclear legislation as the one being presented today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013185458	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013185459	Allow me to say that I know just as much as Mr. Simpson does. Rune Lund on what is liberal and what is not liberal, and I guess I've practiced it a little more than Mr. Rune Lund has earlier in her life, but leave it alone. With regard to priests, I can say that in Denmark one is allowed to be against female priests. There are religious communities there and there is freedom of religion in Denmark, and that is not something that will lead to people's education subsidies being denied. But, for example, if you do... In the opinion of women in general should not be in the labour market at all, half of the population is excluded from participation in society, and that is to oppose democratic society. I can say that much now, and I can say a lot more when we have to answer Mr Seligman's question. Rune Lund's many questions in committee. I'm not criticizing sir. Rune Lund for asking a lot of questions. I should just like to thank him for that, because that makes it even clearer how this law is to be administered.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013185606	There is another brief comment from Mrs Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013185610	Thank you. It is true, as the Minister for Culture says, that Nazis cannot set up a free school. That is a clear definition, there is no doubt about it. On the other hand, they can put their children in primary school; they cannot be denied there. And that's the way it's supposed to be. That's why I'm trying to make a parallel to the bill we're dealing with now. When one undermines democracy or is deemed to have undermined democracy, one cannot get subsidies and not get local guidance. In my view, it is really local guidance that is the worst. Because if you were to hold a major conference on something that has a title, content or lecturer that is considered problematic, then you can't get a room; then there's no alternative unless you can keep it out on the street, that is, if you can get it. So it doesn't matter if there's a place to gather. It is not enough that you can just stand on a corner and say what you mean. One should also be able to mean something with others who disagree with, for example. Me or the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013185726	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013185728	Fortunately, there are other premises in this community than the municipal ones. Although the public sector is dominant, it is not so dominant that you cannot find a place to hold your meetings. There are hotels, inns, hostels and all sorts of other places. So I do not understand Mrs Marianne Jelved's question at all. So I would like to ask: would Mrs Marianne Jelved not agree with me that it has not caused any problems, that the law of free school should prepare pupils for a society of freedom and popular rule? To that paragraph you can raise all the same questions, but it has not caused problems. Mrs Marianne Jelved may now be able to answer that question in her second question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013185814	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013185816	I do not agree with that at all. We are all fully aware of what is meant by preparing children for freedom and democracy. They must have an insight into how democracy works. They must be trained in school themselves, through the way they are together at school, through the subjects at school, etc. etc. And again, there are alternative options. You can go to a free school, go to a private school, and go to a primary school. All the schools we have mentioned here are obliged to do the same. So I don't see anything to do with what we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013185851	Well, then I'll explain. For the law on free school is, after all, the same as the law on education about who can receive grants. And it might well be that if you were Rune Lund, you could ask a lot of questions about what it is like if you are only half-nazi, or if you are only a little Islamist, or if a whole new sect can get subsidies if it thinks some strange things about women or upbringing. But it hasn't caused any problems. That's what I'm trying to say. There is a strong parallel between the National Education Act and the Free School Act. I have always argued that what we are doing here is a parallel to what we did many years ago in the field of free school law. That's why I'm holding on to that parallel.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013185945	Thank you to the Minister for Culture. No one else has asked for the floor and, as this is the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? Nobody does, so it's passed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013190010	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013190031	The draft law before us includes, among other things: a consequence of the existing defence settlement, which includes almost all parties of the Folketing. There is therefore also a broad consensus on the legislative proposals put forward in the field of defence policy. No changes have been made to the Home Guard Act since 2007, so I will take this as an expression of the fact that the Home Guard has a solid legal basis that ensures a high level of security for the Home Guard and the 18 employees. As provided for in the applicable Home Guard Act, the Home Guard shall participate as part of the military defence in the resolution of the tasks of the army, the Navy and the Air Force, including tasks supporting authorities in their mission. As early as March this year, the defence committees agreed to merge the two National Guard inspectorates under the joint command of the Home Guard. The background, as you know and as the Minister has said, was that an analysis pointed to the wisdom of bringing the two commands together under one hat. We in the Social Democratic Party were very much in agreement with that analysis. I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they too, like us in the Socialist Group, are in agreement with the proposal. And I'd like to say hello to the Commissioner, sir. Bjarne Laustsen, and say that the Home Guard is willing to implement the change and that you are quite satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013190152	We thank the rapporteur. Since there are no brief comments, we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beyer de Ryke. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013190200	Thank you. The bill here is a consequence of the budgetary analysis that the Home Guard has been subject to as part of this defence settlement. Well, that's one thing. led to the reorganisation of the Home Guard Command, which means that we will now have to discharge the Marine Home Guard Inspectorate and the Aviation Home Guard Inspectorate of the Home Guard Act, as they are now decommissioned and their duties transferred to the Marine Home Guard and the Home Guard respectively. We do that with L 35, and the Danish People's Party can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013190244	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013190254	Thank you, President. Now we have to pay tribute when there is reason to do so, and I would like to pay tribute to my two fellow rapporteurs who have already been on the platform. You have properly and objectively explained the draft law, and I have nothing more to add, except that the Left supports the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013190313	Nor did it give rise to brief comments. Then we move on to Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013190325	In the Enhedslisten, we are not in the line of defense, and we would actually like to have the Home Guard removed, so we have not been involved in doing the legal work behind it, but what we are going to vote on today is, of course, as I see it - a very small change that does not have the great practical consequences and which it seems that all parties really want. So from this point of view, we on the Enhedslisten can also support this particular proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013190357	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Villum Christensen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013190403	Thank you. This short legislative proposal hardly calls for a major debate, and we have seen it so far. As has been said, there is a consensus within the defence committee to follow the recommendations of the working party behind the budgetary analysis, which aims to simplify the structure of the Home Guard and structural simplifications, we are generally enthusiastic about in the Liberal Alliance, and when, as in this case, two inspectorates for the Marine and Aviation Home Guard are abolished, this is absolutely with our full support.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013190438	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013190446	In the alternative, we are also confident to leave this resolution to the conciliation circle, which seems to have done a good job. We're not in the settlement either. All I am going to do here from the platform is to suggest that those who were not to feel heard in this debate should report out, because at least nobody in the hearing answers rebelled. So we're for it, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013190508	Thank you, sir. René Gade. No more rapporteurs have asked to speak, and that is why it is now the Minister for Defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013190518	Thank you. I shall also be brief and just thank you for your support. It is not to embarrass the Folketing that the bill has been tabled, but more because it is the case that institutions established by law can only be abolished by law. So, in order for us to have coherence between what has been decided and our legislation, the Marine Home Guard Inspectorate and the Aviation Home Guard Inspectorate must be abolished by law. And I hope that next time we discuss the Home Guard as a result of the analysis that has been started, it will be a more substantive discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013190602	As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013190614	The debate is open. Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013190629	Unfortunately, the next debate cannot be so brief, and yet I think it is a good idea to take this a little more fully. Thank you to the Minister for Defence for allowing us to discuss the presentation of the Nordic defence and emergency cooperation. As in previous years, we need to talk about what we have achieved and what we need to work on in the future. We fully agree with the Social Democratic Party to maintain and develop Nordic co-operation with the aim of creating a secure and secure Nordic region where we are ready for action against conflicts and disasters. The long-term goal is to work together at all levels where the Nordic countries have the same interests. I would therefore like to focus on individual and, in our opinion, the most important parts of the statement. Perhaps one can expect that the Danish Presidency of NORDEFCO, the Nordic Defence Association, can give an increased public interest in the work. We have a whole range of interesting tasks ahead of us. The so-called Easy Access agreement is probably the most important since it means that in peacetime the Nordic countries can travel anywhere in the agreement area with military capabilities. The secure communication agreement has already been implemented, while a common access agreement to radar information is under consideration. The agreement to grant unarmed military aircraft the right to apply to the nearest flight station will be extended to armed aircraft by the statements of Finland and Iceland. Cooperation with the Baltic States will become a growth point now that the three Baltic States participate in the Nordic ministerial and official meetings. The international aspect is touched upon in the report on UN peacekeeping in Mali, where three Nordic countries are part of a rotation scheme with Belgium and Portugal and where the starting point is the Norwegian camp. The overall Nordic effort in East Africa takes place within the framework of the reaction force EASF. They shall assist the African Union in its tasks. Continuing threats to security in East Africa make this effort particularly interesting. There are also a number of agreements which do not cover all the NORDEFCO countries, such as: the Danish-Swedish military agreement on increased access to each other's territories and with a number of related technical agreements. It is still under preparation. In the Social Democratic Party, we are of course interested in the Nordic Home Guard cooperation continuing to be inspiring and relevant, and the exchange of experiences between the Nordic countries is certainly of great importance. It is my impression that the volunteers in the Danish Home Guard benefit greatly from the cooperation, and we have now also opened the way for cooperation with the Home Guard in the Baltic, where the security policy challenges and the importance of the volunteers have been discussed. We also have much-developed cooperation in the field of emergency situations, where major accidents and disasters may occur with consequences for several countries. Here, too, the slogan is the robust society, which can at the same time prevent serious accidents and assist effectively if the accident is out. We also have cross-border cooperation in which we are available to third countries. We are working on the decisions on strategic development objectives that the participants are preparing for, for example. in the Haga cooperation. Other emergency cooperation covers all eventualities such as fire, crisis communication, etc., while Nordic rescue cooperation in NORDRED aims to assist neighbouring countries in preventing and reducing damage caused by accidents, disasters or human activity. Here too, existing agreements offer the possibility of developing cooperation. At an international level, the Nordic countries participate in disaster interventions in other parts of the world through IHP, which allows smaller countries such as Denmark to assist with disaster relief as needed. In particular, it is the United Nations which is the IHP's partner in the field of emergency assistance, such as: in the case of earthquakes, floods and other tasks. Our preparedness also includes a number of expert capabilities in areas such as nuclear radiation and high-risk chemical materials. Here a number of exercises are carried out jointly, as well as knowledge about hazardous materials, including in Greenland. As you know, we never got a Nordic defence union. On the other hand, we got something better: a long tradition of voluntary participation in defence and emergency cooperation. Our common area of work for the future is, firstly, to share tasks between the Nordic countries and, at the same time, to develop cooperation. Secondly, it would be desirable to cooperate on joint missions so that each country contributes what it is best to do. Thirdly, Nordic co-operation must consist more of joint efforts than at present, if current conditions are in favour of it, such as: an increased presence in the Baltic Sea region and the Baltic States. Fourthly, we must deal with the Arctic, and they must be constantly assessed so that the efforts of the Nordic countries to protect the Arctic areas are optimally addressed. A broad theme of Nordic co-operation is the fight against international terrorism, in which all aspects must be taken into account. We can only agree with the Minister that Nordic co-operation will strengthen our society's ability to offer citizens the greatest possible security on a common basis of trust and reciprocity. It must be used as a lever for our efforts at an internationally high level. I should like to thank the Minister for his statement, and then I should like to welcome the radical rapporteur and say that he agrees with these remarks.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013191220	We thank Mrs Annette Lind and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Lind. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013191229	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the statement. In the Danish People's Party we certainly see the potential of Nordic cooperation in this area. Despite our less loving common history today, we are countries with many common security policy agendas. This is especially in relation to sovereignty enforcement and rescue missions in areas such as the Baltic Sea, the North Sea and the Arctic, where we have many common interests between the Nordic countries, which is why cooperation in this respect makes good sense. In the current security policy situation, it is important to strengthen ties with our friends, and countries such as Finland and Sweden, which are not part of the NATO alliance, are also counted among Denmark's friends, which is why Nordic defence cooperation, NORDEFCO, is a good arena for strengthening ties with the two countries in particular. It is, of course, a cooperation that we have enjoyed. The Socialist rapporteur read out many of the results, and I can add that last year we talked about the forthcoming joint invitation to tender. And something is already on the way to uniform systems, so something has already been set in motion in relation to what was planned for last year. So all in all, we in the Danish People's Party are very pleased with the joint Nordic cooperation in the field of defence and preparedness. However, having said that, it is important for me to stress that Denmark's primary defence cooperation must take place under the auspices of NATO, which is an alliance that has been beneficial to Denmark for decades, and which is an alliance in which we in the Danish People's Party believe that Denmark should cement its central position as a core country with the commitments and opportunities it gives rise to.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013191431	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Peter Juel Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013191442	Thank you, President. I would like to start by thanking the Minister for a good and comprehensive statement which, in addition to describing cooperation between the Nordic countries, is also a good tool for us who do not have hands on Nordic co-operation on a daily basis. Nordic defence and emergency cooperation aims to create a secure Nordic region, but also a Nordic region which contributes solidarity to the management of conflicts and disasters internationally. We work together to find solutions to common challenges and to develop concrete technical and operational agreements. It is a wide range of areas of military cooperation in the fields of, for example: capacity development, equipment acquisition, exercises, training, sir and training. I would also like to mention in concrete terms the Nordic emergency cooperation. In the field of preparedness, there is a long tradition of Nordic cooperation, which is based on formal cooperation structures as well as on more informal forums and relations. This includes, among other things: Haga cooperation and cooperation in the International Humanitarian Partnership and Nordic Rescue Agreement. Nordic emergency cooperation also includes cooperation between the Nordic authorities in various operational fields such as rescue services, chemical preparedness and nuclear preparedness. The overall objective of emergency cooperation is to create a robust society that can prevent and manage accidents and disasters, but also to provide mutual assistance between the Nordic countries or joint interventions to third countries in crisis situations. Nordic defence and emergency cooperation is based on a long tradition and is driven by our geographical and cultural proximity, openness and our common value base. This is a good starting point for Denmark to continuously adapt to new global challenges and to bring all our tools into play in a contemporary way to address our common interests both in the neighbourhood and internationally with our neighbours. That is why the Liberal Party also welcomes the fact that the Minister for Defence is giving such priority to cooperation in the Nordic region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013191701	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013191714	In the Enhedslisten we think that Nordic cooperation is very good and positive, and that it also makes very good sense to have very close cooperation in the field of defence and preparedness. What I am particularly concerned about is, of course, some of the work that lies in terms of preparedness, i.e. both the fact that you can take action with both sea rescue and various natural disasters, etc., and that you can help out out in the world. This is true, for example. the Nordic co-operation, which is on a number of UN missions which have, for example: was a rotation in relation to the transport aircraft that was sent to the UN mission in Mali and, in general, also humanitarian cooperation in the context of disaster preparedness in the world. I think this is very, very sensible and good for us to participate in and try to strengthen. I would like us to focus more on Nordic co-operation in the field of defence and preparedness, and on NATO, as we see in the Enhedslisten more as an attack pact. So I would like to see more emphasis on the Nordic side. Something that I also think could make sense to expand was for example. in the field of peace and conflict resolution. There both Sweden and Norway have some rather more provocative institutes than we have in Denmark, which contribute with peace and conflict resolution aid around the world. I think it would be very good if we in Denmark could also participate more actively in Nordic co-operation on this. I also see that we can play a very good role on the Nordic side by pressing more for disarmament throughout the Baltic region. So I would like to thank you for your statement and make a small request that we should also be able to strengthen more initiatives of this kind.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013191938	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013191946	In the absence of our rapporteur in this area, I should like to thank the Minister for a fine statement. I am not a defence rapporteur, but as a long-standing member of the Nordic Council, I find it both uplifting and, in fact, informative to get a status on the important work going on between the Nordic countries, including in the field of defence and preparedness. As you know, it is not formally subject to the Nordic Council. Then it is particularly gratifying to note that this year, during the Danish Presidency, both progress and development are taking place in a number of areas within NORDEFCO. Among the many elements of the report, I would particularly like to highlight Nordic co-operation in the context of the rotation scheme. It is through this, as you know, that Denmark has made 130 transport aircraft available to the UN in Mali. The rotation system is a very sensible way of exploiting the capacity of Nordic co-operation and we look forward to the further development of the scheme. On the whole, we are very concerned about international work, and from the Liberal Alliance there must be a clear call for future work to be done to strengthen Nordic cooperation on training support and capacity building in other countries. This is a contribution to increasing the capacity and competence of other countries to participate in international missions under the auspices of the United Nations. Finally, I would like to express great respect for the educational cooperation between the Nordic and Baltic Defence Colleges. I have actually been over to see one of them on exchange and credit transfer for courses at each other's institutes. Knowledge sharing is undoubtedly a key word in the continued development of defence cooperation, and open and direct access to educational institutions must be so supported. With these comments, I would like to thank you for the floor and look forward to the continuation of the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013192156	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013192203	I would also like to thank you very much for your statement. Although there are many points in such a statement where, in the alternative, we would actually like to do things differently, I would say that I will then be extremely proud to be a Dane when I read the statement. Our preparedness and our defence in general are making an incredibly great effort for Denmark and also for the international community. We can then discuss whether we are making the right effort and whether we should give a different priority, and that is where we think, in the alternative, that much more should be done in terms of European cooperation and Nordic cooperation rather than cooperation with NATO. However, it is not the case that we are at present. can do without NATO. I don't think we can do that at all. At any rate, we still have to come up with the clear solution for how we could do it, and I think it would be irresponsible to say that we could be outside NATO right now, but it could be a push towards even closer cooperation with the United Nations and so to be careful that NATO will not be as quietly maneuvering the momentum that the United Nations can have. At least it has to be said from here that we would like that. But in that we do not have the solution, I want to maintain what I said at the beginning, that is, that the statement in a very, very many ways makes it possible to straighten your back, and so can our defenses. We are in a situation in the Alternative where we are going to build up our policy in this area, and that gives us a few conditions which are few in number. This means that we are allowed to start from scratch, and that we can come in with the messages and the wishes and the view of the world and the role of Denmark in the world, which we now believe is the right thing, with all the history that lies ahead, and we intend to exploit it. That is why it has also waited for us to have a real defence policy. Right now I am navigating on the basis of our values and what we have said in general in all sorts of different areas and the policy we have developed around the country and the way we want to be as a party, but we do not have a written policy. We are developing this, and some of what I have found out in this development process, where we have experts inside, we have defended inside, and we are listening to our political colleagues who have a lot of experience in this area and also know what it is like to navigate internationally, and when it comes to going from having no policy in this area and deciding what Denmark is going to do is that we have skipped something and that I have skipped something. I have simply forgotten what it's like to get those who are determined that the war is the wrong way to talk about defence. Then it can be said that we are all determined that the war is the wrong way. Yes, we are, but there is also the question of whether weapons and military can help to get us in the right direction. So many people are still missing, not least in the alternative, who think that it is quite wrong to use the military at all to maintain our security, especially in the Nordic countries, that we have some other values in the Nordic region, where we can bid with something else and where we can be a humanist great power, and here I jump in, and I can stand up for that myself. I am not a pacifist, but I believe that we have the opportunity to look back in history and look at what role Denmark and the Nordic countries have played. There I would like us to insist more on finding out what kind of DNA we are going to have, which is Nordic, what we have in the welfare area, what kind of Nordic model and Danish model, what kind of things we can do here, and insist that we deliver something unique instead of just being a small fish in a sea where there may be some big sharks that end up deciding about us, so that we sometimes have to look back and say, "Hey, was it quite right?' So I would like us to go in and look even more at how we could deliver a sustainable defense and how we could think that when we purchased equipment, it was sustainable. I would also like us to have an information hierarchy in external defence for the people and for politicians, which was much more transparent than today. I see that our defence minister is trying so hard to make it transparent and trying to make some progress, but the official work and the political system and the media are today a triangle in which I sometimes have to take my head and think: is this really how it's supposed to work? It doesn't seem like anyone working together. After all, the media should not support us all the time, nor should the Minister do what we say in the alternative. However, I would like there to be a much greater openness, not least about where we export things that can be used for warfare or surveillance, about the fact that this can be problematic, even if we choose to continue with it, but at all a much greater openness. Having said that, I would also like to look forward to hearing the Minister's comments on the statement and, contrary to what I used to say, I have brought something with me here, because when these are not my own words, I must be sure that what I am saying is right. I would like us to look back and look at what is really possible if we are to start all over again what is possible, if we are to look at the policy we usually call the policy of necessity, and whether that is the only right thing to do at the moment. To join these wars and have an activist foreign policy, and if we cannot see other options. Sometimes I'm on that team myself and can't really see what else we should do, but I'm starting to approach a position where we say we have to sound wild, but we can do something there and we can do something completely different than when we just deliver equipment and more planes and more weapons. We can do something in a mediation position, we can do something in conflict management by the Nordics with the capabilities we have in the defence. I'm thinking that there we can use our military and our talented soldiers to go out and deliver this effort. So we're somewhere in between, and my point is that it doesn't have to be a fight with the defense. The fact that we insist on being a humanitarian superpower may mean that we need the very best in the military to go out and make these proactive efforts. Having said that, I want to focus on something that will happen on Monday. There is an association celebrating its 90th birthday, and I have very, very much respect for them. Some may sometimes call them naive. We see them sometimes out here in the Palace Square, we see them in the media, we see them standing and shouting, we see them holding conferences. I regularly talk to the people who are responsible for this, and I would really like to say that I was a Member, but I am not. I am not a member, because I am afraid that we will have to have military and weapons in the North, including in the years to come. We need to cooperate with those who have them in order to ensure that we can influence the world in the direction that we believe is right for the whole world. And I will read, and it won't take long: Never more War marks its 90 years reluctantly. ▪ Never more War has worked hard against the war and all its creatures since 17 October 1926. It can be called a defeat that the purpose has not long been fulfilled and the union has been abandoned. In recent decades Denmark has instead thrown itself into one war after another, without the resistance to war having been able to completely slow down this development. Ninety percent of Denmark's youth do not volunteer for the military. And internationally, the presidential candidates of the United States are busy declaring the Iraq war a mistake. A smaller association like ours cannot control so much, but we are still trying to influence developments in a more peaceful direction," says Tom Vilmer Paamand, President of Never More War. Never More War supports the work in other peace contexts such as the Ministry of Peace and the campaign No Thanks to New Fighters, and helped to start the Tribunal Association for Study of the Danish Wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. The association is itself affiliated with War Resisters' International. The number of members is increasing steadily. The association is Denmark's only association for consistent resistance to war. We are pacifists and against all forms of war and violence, no matter who has the weapons in his hands. It is a way of life that goes beyond party politics and religion, and the message continues to attract new active people, says the President. The association continues to publish its member magazine with many readers outside its own circle. Never More War is today one of the country's oldest peace organizations, and stood for example. behind the creation of the organisation Interfolk Samvirke, originally called the Helping Work of the Friends of Peace. Everyone remembers the fall of the Wall, where the militant regimes of Eastern Europe fell without much violence when the people demanded change. Historically, nonviolent upheavals are documentably more effective and long-lasting than violent. Never More War was founded in 1926 in Elsinore, and therefore marks the anniversary of the International Højskole in this city. You may agree or disagree, but I think they should be taken seriously. For war is a human construction that has been at all times, and as long as we sometimes say it is a necessity, or are going to laugh too much of those who insist that there are other ways, then I think we are making some fatal mistakes. So I think we should respect that never more war, among other things. they've brought us into inter-folk interaction, and that they're keeping us in our ears out here. Then we shall see in which direction the alternative defence policy ends up. At present, we are generally very critical of the foreign policy intervention in these wars that have been taking place over the last 10 to 15 years, and I think we will continue to be so. But whether we want to be even sharper in terms of walking away from this military section and into a purely humanitarian major power project, we have to see. But I think we owe it to those who insist that there are other ways, and we would like to thank them, and thank you for the statement here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013193144	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013193207	Thank you, sir. President. I am a great supporter of good neighbourly relations and well-developed Nordic cooperation in all areas. This is also why the Faroese Home Rule Government has submitted an application for independent membership of the Nordic Council. We want to participate, give and receive on an equal footing with other Nordic countries, and I am fully in line with the advocates to strengthen Nordic co-operation on all fronts. I also hope that the Danish Government will support our application and contribute to a positive outcome in the Council of Ministers when it is dealt with next month. It will both commit us and give us the opportunity to reap the benefits of open and equal cooperation. We consider the Stoltenberg report's perspectives for closer cooperation on the monitoring and response side of the North Atlantic to be valuable and the right way to go. Although we do not have a military or an independent defence policy, there should be no doubt that we are contributing to a joint Nordic effort where we can. I am well aware that the Nordic countries have different orientations due to geographical location, membership of alliances, the European Union, etc. There is therefore a need for cooperation on different fronts, so to speak, and at varying levels. Since the break-up of the Soviet Union, interest in the North Atlantic has been decreasing, but the increasing polarisation with Russia means that greater focus is again needed in this area. We would like to contribute to that as far as we can. After all, we have a strategic central position in what was called the GIUK yawn at the time, and we can therefore become one of the focal points behind monitoring movements in the air, at sea and below sea level. The growing interest in the area has also resulted in inter alia: The U.S. Navy Minister visited the Faroe Islands recently and made it clear that the United States intends to intensify its presence in the area. Although the defence is administered from Denmark, it is important, however, and I stress that it is important that both the Minister for Defence and the Defence respect the Fámjin Declaration and generally engage in a dialogue with the Faroese Government on wishes and plans for the future, so that the parties reach an understanding and agreement on the objectives and means to be used in the future for the benefit of both the Faroe Islands and the cooperating partners. This has been the case before with respect for the Faroe Islands being the land of the Faroe Islands, for example. when the NATO base at Sornfelli was established, without the Faroese Lagting being taken on board at all many years ago. The same applies when the military invites the Government of the Faroe Islands as guests to events with visitors from outside the Faroe Islands. We prefer to take on the role of hosts rather than guests on our own home field. On the alert side, the situation is formally different from that of the defence, as we have assumed responsibility for this area ourselves. We have a relatively well-run preparedness, which is led by the police on land and by the MRCC at sea. We have three ships and two flunching new rescue helicopters, which are paid by the Faroese Finance Act. As a fishing nation and with experience from nine oil wells on Faroese base, valuable experience has gradually been built up, although the matter should also be further developed. Here, too, Arctic Command is an important player, and the collaboration has developed positively over the years on the operational level. I myself was responsible for the helicopter section for many years and remember how difficult it could be to create open and effective cooperation, as it was difficult to open the military protocols. We could, for example. not land a civilian helicopter on a military ship, but today there is constructive operational cooperation with Arctic Command and, to that extent, also with Icelandic preparedness in the neighbouring country. But like the neighbours in Iceland and Greenland, we have a huge area to take care of in relation to our population, and therefore we must cooperate with our neighbours and provide support when the tasks require a greater readiness than what we can pattern, and vice versa, of course, we must also help with our neighbours. I also believe that there is a need for international cooperation on preparedness in the Arctic and neighbouring areas, so that resourceful economies that make use of the waters and thereby expose us to potential risks are also involved in the financing of a well-functioning preparedness. This could perhaps be inspired by ICAO cooperation in the field of aviation, where users pay a fee for the use of airspace, which is part of the financing of air traffic monitoring, communication and rescue. Since the Faroe Islands are not a full member of Nordic co-operation yet, but have full responsibility for preparedness in their own territory, a vacuum may arise in relation to communication and exchange of experience with other Nordic countries at a Nordic level. As I do not see the Faroe Islands mentioned in the statement at all, I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether the Faroe Islands have been dealt with in the Nordic emergency cooperation and whether the Minister will take note of the request that the Government respect the Faroe Islands' Home Rule Government as the supreme authority in the Faroe Islands, including with regard to defence policy initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013193831	Thank you, sir. Magni Arge. We move on to Mr. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013193840	Thank you, sir. President. And also thank you for a fine statement. Personally, I think that all the Nordic countries should be members of both NATO and the European Union. Europe cannot be the two organisations apart. They create stability and security that everyone benefits from. Those who do not participate receive direct and indirect benefits, but they do not do anything. They're a kind of freeter, you might say. When you think of how strong the Nordic bloc could be both in the EU and in NATO, it is really a pity that we are not all involved. The North would be much stronger together. The sum of our weight would be far greater if we were together than it is when we are split. And it is going to be a double shame when you consider that part of the problem arises because of purely identity policy. That is, for example, the case. It is difficult to see anything other than the reason why Norway is outside the EU; it is difficult to see any logical argument for it. On the other hand, it is understandable that Finland will not be part of NATO; that is logical because of their neighbour. And you also understand that Iceland will not be part of the European Union. And for the same reason that EU membership would be complicated for Iceland, it could also be complicated for the Faroe Islands at least as long as the fisheries policy is as it is. So that is the way it is, and as long as it is so, it will be difficult to have a really close defence cooperation over. But it's good, and it's necessary to try especially when you have a potentially aggressive neighbor in the east. The statement which forms the basis of this debate shows that the opportunities are being cultivated. But I'm a little puzzled, as Mr. Magni Arge also mentioned that the Faroe Islands are not even mentioned in the statement. The Danish Presidency has worked for the so-called easy access agreement to ensure that countries can have access to each other's air and sea areas in a flexible way. I assume that this includes Faroese areas as well. This is clearly in the interests of the Faroe Islands, but it would be interesting to know how and whether the Faroe Islands have been involved in those discussions. There is no doubt that the geopolitical importance of the Faroe Islands, which was quite great during the Cold War, has grown in the new security policy situation, which we have now also seen as a result of the potentially aggressive neighbour to the east. The last thing that Magni Arge also mentioned is the stream of visits that have been to the Faroe Islands in the last year. In June, the U.S. Secretary of the Navy, the U.S. Navy Minister, was in the Faroe Islands. Several defence-related delegations have been there, and last year there was a British frigate in the Faroe Islands for the first time since the Cold War ended. And the Taksøe report also very clearly indicated that the Danish Government's security and defence policy look turns more northwards. I appreciate the investments in security that the government intends to make in the Faroe Islands, not least the fact that a frigate will patrol regularly around the islands as intended in the future. In the defence settlement, it is also said that a new radar station might come up instead of the one that was shut down after the cold war. I personally welcome this too, but I would like to remind you, as I have done before, that everything that is happening around and on the Faroe Islands in this context must be done in a transparent manner with the Faroese authorities and in dialogue with the Faroese authorities. We must avoid the myth formation which was so extensive a few decades back and which always occurs when things happen over people's heads. I do not see that Denmark and the Faroe Islands have different interests in terms of security and defence, and that is why we must avoid going wrong with each other. I don't think that's necessary. We have, as has also been mentioned, a 2005 declaration on involvement in security and defence and foreign affairs, the Fámjin Declaration, and if it is followed, I believe that we can have good open-minded and mythless cooperation in the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013194316	Thank you to the rapporteur. No more rapporteurs have asked to speak, so that is the Minister for Defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013194325	Thank you for that and thank you for the many comments on the statement. And the questions I was asked were, in fact, the most questions from our two Faroese colleagues. Before answering them, I would like to say that I am convinced that Nordic co-operation will also contribute in the future to further strengthening the fact that we have a secure and robust society; that together we can solve tasks where it makes sense and have a practical approach to defence policy cooperation in the Nordic countries; and that, therefore, where we can achieve some results by being together, we must do so. And when I mention a practical approach, it is precisely as several rapporteurs mentioned, because all the Nordic countries are not members of the same organisations, yet they are able to cooperate and develop our cooperation in the field of defence and preparedness. I therefore agree that, when it comes to the actions that may concern the Faroe Islands, it is important that we have an open and honest dialogue. Radar is mentioned from the Arctic analysis, and what it says is that this is something that will be studied further. It is important for me to stress that no decision has been taken on anything, and it is obviously the case that if one had to go that way at some point, one would of course be in dialogue with the Faroese community and the Faroese regime on this. The only question to which I would not just wish to reply in the affirmative is, in fact, a slightly unclear one, namely whether I agree that the Faroe Islands have the highest authority in terms of defence. I should now like to be a little cautious about nodding, because I am not fully aware of what is meant by it. For that is not the case, since it is not an area that has been taken from the Faroese side. That is why it is part of the Kingdom community's field of activity. That is why I do not really know what was asked about this wording. There was a discussion about membership of the Nordic Council, which is a slightly different debate from the one we have here because it concerns NORDEFCO. But that is why I should like to make a comment anyway. Because I have received the letter that you are applying to become a member of the Nordic Council, and we will soon have an opportunity to discuss this in connection with the annual meeting of the Nordic Council. So, the Danish approach is basically unchanged, namely that we are also prepared to go as far as we can, but of course within the framework of the constitution. And then we'll have to drill out what's possible within that framework. This is not a new discussion, I think everyone is aware of that. The last thing I would like to conclude was whether the fact that we want to make a political agreement that we have easier access to each other's territories also includes the Faroe Islands. So it does, in principle, because it is a Danish agreement. But we are not at all so far that we have all the details in place yet. We have made a political agreement between Denmark and Sweden that we would like to have this easier access to each other's territories. We are also in the process of implementing that. So what I expect we may be able to decide on 9 November in Copenhagen is to make it apply throughout the NORDEFCO circle. Then, of course, it must also be implemented, and in this context I must come back with how we think it and how we can have a dialogue about the Faroe Islands. Well, the whole idea is that it should be very easy, so I do not imagine that we are going to have a concrete discussion every time it happens, because then it is easy at least not to exist anymore. But let us have a dialogue on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013194835	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013194838	It's just to clarify what I meant. I am well aware that the defence is not a repatriated area, but there is a Fàmjin declaration which says that the Danish Government must take the Faroese Home Rule Government on board specially important foreign policy matters and thereby also defence policy matters. In fact, that is just what I mean in this context, so when you take action, whether it is a report or a physical action, an operational action, whatver, you also turn to the Faroese Home Rule Government, and so also go through that channel so that they are informed from the outset. That's the first thing. The second thing I said about the exchange of experience was not only in the area of defence policy but also in the field of emergency aid. As far as the emergency area is concerned, we are talking about a reclaimed area, but in that the Faroe Islands are not an independent part of Nordic co-operation, I ask whether one has even thought about how to exchange operational experiences between the different theatres, so that experiences also flow to and from the Faroese operational unit.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013194944	Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013194949	Thank you. In other words, in relation to the latter, it is my impression that there is also a close dialogue with the preparedness in the Faroe Islands and that, in fact, it also works quite well at the practical level. There I would almost turn it around and say that if we had the idea that something could be done even better, let us finally have a dialogue on this, because the whole idea of the Arctic is, of course, that we should use the resources that exist in the area, cooperation and also the opportunities that we have, because we will never find ourselves in a situation where we do not need all the possible resources that are available if major accidents occur. In relation to the clarification given as to whether Denmark and the government will respect the agreement that, if decisions directly concern the Faroe Islands, they will consult the Faroe Islands, I can confirm that we stand by that. However, it is not quite the same as the Faroese Home Rule Government being the supreme authority when it comes to defence policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013195108	Sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013195112	Yeah, yeah, but I'm not gonna comment on the defense policy anymore. I have to sign for and thank you for the answers I got. What happened to my question about this was also the fact that the Faroe Islands were not mentioned in this statement at all, and that is why I wanted to know whether they had been related to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013195127	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013195130	I really have nothing more to add to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013195133	A brief comment from Mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013195136	It's just a question. Now such a statement here is per. definition a little backward-looking, that's what an explanation will be. Could the Minister perhaps make a few suggestions as to what Denmark's low-hanging fruits in this collaboration are? Are there some places where we do not necessarily go out and influence this cooperation in the coming years, where some opportunities may have arisen that the others have not quite seen yet and where we could gather some political support? It could be some field, a blue ocean or somewhere where we could go in and move the cooperation in a direction, so we get even closer to each other and we're going to be even stronger together. It is not certain that the Minister has something in mind, but perhaps he could make one or two suggestions in some places where we could bet with advantage.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013195225	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013195228	In addition to the things that are also described by concrete measures in the statement, I also see that Denmark has the opportunity to bring the Nordic friends closer to our NATO cooperation, even if they are not members of NATO, so that we have close cooperation at as many levels as possible. Because when you get there, for example... Looking at the Baltic Sea as an area, I believe that as members of NATO we have some interests, but of course Sweden and Finland also have interests. So I see this as an area in which, at least, we have a forum to have good defence policy discussions between the governments, at the same time as the concrete measures that we are proposing. May I conclude by saying that the idea is that these statements will in future be more forward-looking and therefore this will be the last debate on the statement, which is only looking backwards. In future, as part of the Taksøe recommendations, we will actually bring it together and have some forward-looking debates, and I hope that we will also be able to get more out of this in relation to the dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013195400	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013195404	I think that sounds like a sensible plan. It may also be that there will be a stronger voice from the Nordic side if there are more members of NATO. But we are also quite critical of NATO cooperation as a starting point. As I said in my speech, we do not really see that we can be so in addition to at present, and we must also be careful not to be too critical when we do not have the solution in our back pocket. But how does the Secretary of Defense, without demanding that he be able to sit in the other countries' place, see that, like the other Nordic nation, one can dare to stand outside NATO cooperation today and yet be safe? We are not doing it in Denmark, so I would just like to have a few comments on it. I am not sure what it will be like for Denmark myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013195448	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013195452	After all, on behalf of the Danish Government, I will always refrain from interfering in whether Finland and Sweden should be members of NATO. I think we can see soberly that these countries have greater defences as a result of being outside alliances, and there is certainly a great logic in that. If you are not guaranteed the help of some friends, as we are as members of NATO, then you have to be more responsible for security yourself. So it is not only a defence matter to be left alone, it also costs something economical.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013195538	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161013195550	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 14 October 2016, at 10:00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
