ParlaMint-DK_20160511130009	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511130022	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511130044	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 12 May 2016. Let me just say before we begin that we have only two hours together, and the rapporteurs and the questioners must remember that there must also be some room for the Minister at the end. So we should limit it as far as we can and keep to the speaking time. Then I think we all serve best. Here you go to the author of the questions, sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511130132	Thank you. I am glad that we can have this urgent question today and that a majority of the parties have supported it. For while ordinary Danes pay taxes on their wages as they should, there is a small group of very wealthy people who make and live by their very own rules. Leaks such as those from Liechtenstein and Switzerland, from Luxembourg and, most recently, Panama Papers, have shown how companies and individuals, using pretty company designs, aggressively speculate not to pay taxes in the countries where they have earned their money. The Community is being cheated and it is undermining the confidence of ordinary citizens in our tax system, and it is, of course, particularly sensitive to a tax-financed welfare society such as the Danish one. As the billions grow tax-free in the shade of palm trees on Cayman Islands or Panama, or where it is, yes, they lack in the common box to invest in home helpers and railways, educators and hospitals. It undermines our community and it is a tool for crime and money laundering and a hiding place for money generated by organised crime. So it is both a danger to us economically, but also in a more fundamental sense, it is a breach of what is at least our values of right and duty. And it is in its essence undemocratic if our joint decisions in a democracy can be ignored and undermined by a small group of super-riches. So cross-border tax speculation and the use of tax havens are a huge challenge for both the Danish and the international community and have been so for a long time. The leak of Panama papers has also shown that Danish banks help to create companies and accounts in notorious tax havens without ensuring that the tax is paid. Thank you very much for helping the same banks as a society through the financial crisis. That is why we, and others too, have been puzzled by this debate...
ParlaMint-DK_20160511130323	We're gonna hold on a second. We need to find out if this is where it's going or if it's out in the square. It's not in this building, so for now it looks like it's going well. Here you go again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511130345	All right, Roman lights stay outside! However, we have been surprised that the government has shown itself to be so subdued in its political response and that it has acted almost as an actor and abandoned its idea without taking any steps in the fight against tax havens both nationally and internationally, and that is why we have found it right to call an urgent question on the subject, which is to say: what initiatives will the government take to counter the use of international tax havens in the light of Lux Leaks and Panama Papers? And we look forward to the Government's response and, above all, to concrete action in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511130417	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Then it's the treasure minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511130429	I would like to begin by agreeing with the questioners that tax havens and, in particular, illegal tax evasion are highly topical and a key challenge for a welfare society such as the Danish and the financing model we have chosen. Let me start by stating with seven-inch nails that combating it, that is to say tax evasion and also international tax evasion via tax havens, is a priority for me and for the government. After all, the question arises from the appalling revelations we saw back in 2014 about multinational companies' secret tax agreements with Luxembourg and, most recently, the leaked documents from a law firm in Panama. The massive use of secret tax agreements and shell companies revealed in the two leaks I find immoral and unreasonable to all those who pay the tax they must pay. Tax evasion is an insult to all law-abiding citizens; it must be stopped and minimized to the extent that it is possible at all, as it is harmful to our welfare societies. Fortunately, I would say, there is broad agreement on this, both in Denmark and abroad. And that's why I don't agree with Mr. Jesper Petersen, in fact, I believe that the government and the opposition are quite agreed on the importance of the agenda, so one can of course always discuss the rhetoric. The fact that there is international agreement that we must combat the use of tax havens and, above all, tax evasion is, in my view, absolutely crucial, and it is the government's clear view that action should be taken, but that exclusive action by Denmark is not the way forward. What really is cooperation, where the international community is united and not only sends a clear signal, but also shows effective action to those countries that have not understood the message that we will not accept tax havens and illegal tax evasion. The government sees this as an international task to be solved internationally, and we are working hard on that. In these years, it is also gratifying that there is momentum both in the European Union and in the OECD, and that is where the results must be produced. We have, among other things. Seen with Lux Leaks, which was the leak that led the EU to adopt rules in 2015 which imply that agreements between taxpayers and tax authorities on their tax relationship should be automatically exchanged between EU countries. Cooperation between tax authorities based on international standards is the way forward. As results are created, it is extremely important that SKAT exercises an independent and active role of authority and follows up on the use of the various possibilities for accessing relevant information. In the context of leaked information on the so-called HSBC case, SKAT was criticised in spring 2015 for only late in the process having done something active to obtain the information. Both the former tax minister and the SKAT have regretted this. At the same time, SKAT ensured an internal focus on how to deal with such cases in the future. I have taken note of the fact that the chairman of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, among other things, is here. took advantage of its 1st May speech to make 17 proposals in five areas of action aimed at countering the use of tax havens. That is welcome, and I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the proposals. Overall, I accept constructively good ideas on how we can jointly limit and hopefully eliminate tax havens and tax evasion. It is a common agenda, which I think almost all parties in the Folketing have a desire to do something about. The challenge, therefore, is not to obtain 90 mandates, as it does in a number of other areas, but to ensure that what we are doing actually has a real effect. The government is, of course, open to consider the proposals of the Social Democratic Party and other parties' proposals. So the most sensible way to combat tax havens and tax evasion is to strengthen international cooperation, and we fully agree with the part of the plan put forward by the Socialists. A number of questions have been raised about the role of banks in the leak from the Panamanian law firm. Of course, the government takes the advice of the banks seriously and we will take steps for political discussions when the FSA's statement on the role of banks in tax evasion is available. On 14 April 2016, in an open letter, Finance Ministers of the five largest EU countries proposed the introduction of global exchange of register information on real owners. The proposal provides for automatic exchange of data from ownership registers between countries in order to ensure that, inter alia: the tax authorities may identify entities and arrangements involving tax evasion. It is also proposed that the OECD should be responsible for the development of common international standards for registers and for the exchange of information between countries. It is a proposal which this government welcomes and which we will actively support in the future. In this context, I would also just like to remind you that in March Parliament actually passed a law which means that all the companies involved, apart from registering their illegal formal owners, must also register their real owners. That is to say, the natural persons who ultimately own or control the company. This is the implementation of parts of the fourth EU money laundering directive. The rules have not been put into effect yet, but it is expected that they will enter into force from the first half of 2017. Nor should we forget the most important tool: the automatic exchange of banking information according to the OECD Common Reporting Standard. This system means that if a Dane opens an account abroad, the authorities automatically receive the information in the same way as if the account had been opened in a Danish bank. The first exchange of banking information for 2016 is to take place in 2017. To date, 101 jurisdictions have signed the agreement, and it is my view that if you have information to help SKAT detect tax evasion, then of course you have to share it with the tax authorities. But this automatic exchange agreement, which will enter into force in mid-2017, will give the IRS some powerful tools to eliminate illegal tax evasion and tax havens. Then there is the question of the European Union's initiatives, and there the Commission has presented a tax havens package. It supports the Danish Government and we also support a common blacklist in the EU, drawn up on the basis of common criteria. I just have to remind you that the process may be delayed because the EU must agree on the definition of tax havens. I think we can agree on that in the Folketing, but the issue remains in the EU, and it is not Denmark that is a backstop. It is also the case that on 12 April this year the Commission presented a proposal for a directive amending the Accounting Directive on reporting from country to country. This is a matter for the Minister for Industry and Growth, and it is a proposal which Denmark also supports far along the way. It is about the fact that if you are a multinational company, you have to make country-by-country reporting on your activities within the European Union, among other things. information on profits and taxes paid. And the proposal includes groups with a turnover of over 5.6 billion. kr. Once again, this is something that will create openness. The government is in favour of international efforts to discuss, once the system has been set up again, whether the border has been set in the right place. There are therefore a number of points on which the government is overall in line with the statements made by other parties, including the Social Democratic Party with their plan to counter the use of tax havens. However, it is crucial for the government that the measures are effective and balanced, and let me take the example of the proposal for tougher penalties. In my view, it tends to be more symbolic. One can of course mean what one wants and whether one wants to send that signal or not, but unfortunately I have to say that it tends to be symbolic. Increasing the penalty for tax evasion raises a fundamental question about the level of punishment for similar serious economic crimes, and we think that the level of punishment today is sensible and that it must be maintained. Moreover, it is quite doubtful whether it will have a real effect. The problem I don't think is how high the penalty is, because it's actually pretty high. It is whether it can be proved what the offence is. And the main way to combat tax havens is to work to ensure an effective exchange of information between countries. The exchange of information is a crucial element in effectively identifying both tax fraud and possibly making an advisory responsibility applicable. And that's what I and the government want to work for. If we are to succeed in countering the use of tax havens, we must do so internationally, as has been said. With the revelations from Panama, the debate about the use of tax havens around the world is highly topical. It must be exploited within the framework of the European Union and the OECD, so that agreement can be reached on measures that exert maximum pressure on tax havens. But I must simply remind you in all silence that I do not think it is Denmark that is the problem in that debate, but probably some other countries. After all, I welcome the fact that Panama has now agreed to the global agreement on the automatic exchange of information. This must be said to be a step in the right direction, and it shows that international pressure and focus on a tax havens have an effect. That must be my answer to the question. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511131422	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen, draftsman of the questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511131439	I have been working on tax policy for a decade now, and in many areas we are doing what we can to ensure that the tax is paid as it should, but there is therefore the whole problem of tax havens that still exist and which is a huge problem around the world. I must say that I can constantly be offended by the massive injustice that the world's tax havens hold over and under. It is assumed by the European Commission that the Member States of the European Union alone will lose a total of 1,000 billion annually. EUR in tax revenue due to tax evasion and speculation. It is as much money as it is allocated to the entire EU's next seven-year budget. If you look at the consequences of the lack of tax payments for the world's poorest countries, it is quite glowing over. Think of what could be created together and for the community with the much money. That simply calls for political action. While the Social Democracy had government responsibility, we were over the area like a hawk. We tightened up the legislation, we increased the staff of the SKAT to pursue tax evasion, and we implemented an ambitious tax havens package that included an offensive international effort, openness on corporate ownership and recommendations for good tax advice. But we are far from achieving it. The reality and newspaper headlines testify to this, and we have recently presented a plan for the next steps that we believe can be taken to intensify the fight against the tax fraud that undermines the community. Because we believe that as a society we must strike back when wealthy people undermine the common for our own gain. Overall, we believe that if you cheat and move money into tax havens, you have to be punished more severely, and if you as a counsellor help to cheat taxes, you have to be held responsible for it and be able to lose the right to advise. We would like to spend more money on SKAT and on the employees. The Danish tax authorities have been under-priority and are getting new information and new tasks to carry out in this area. Then we believe that Denmark must take the lead and secure both pan-European and global rules so that together we can strike down hard on tax havens. There are many who have such a slightly upset attitude to this whole question and think that it will probably just go on and on as it has always done. I think it is extremely important for us politically to make it clear that this acceptance must not be allowed. Political action is actually useful. So a sneaking tendency to live on with injustice and to give up on it I would strongly warn against. So we want further action and we want negotiations on a tax havens II. Negotiations on a mandate for the government's international action on behalf of Denmark could also be imagined. The government says it wants to do more internationally, but we miss it saying what it actually wants. What will it actually do to counter the foot-to-foot and reluctant countries that will always exist? The government seems to accept good ideas, but doesn't really have any. The government will not allocate more resources to SKAT, even if there is an increasing number of new information on potential tax fraud. The government will not actively obtain information from informants who can detect fraud, but will wait and see if other countries will share information with us. And the government says that tax havens must be fought via the EU, but has not taken a mandate from the European Committee to take up the fight seriously, although the technical negotiations on the Commission's proposals are already to be expected. We would like to see the limit on who, for example, is there. is going to pay country for country accounts, gets lower. It is therefore thought-provoking that if there is an unemployed person in Denmark who can be regarded as feeling a little too well, then the government's wealth of ideas is boundless in terms of cunning ways of reducing cash aid and labour market conditions, but when it comes to massive tax fraud, the government strikes out a little indulgently with its arms, looks at the time and waits for others to do something. That is simply not good enough. The wealthy people who have saved their fortunes in Panama and elsewhere have not fulfilled their part of the contract with the community • a community that has paid for their training, who provides hospitals if they become ill and who makes sure that there is a strong economy that makes them earn money from operating here. That is why, of course, you also have to pay your taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511131858	Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511131910	I would like to start by saying that, in the case of the Danish People's Party, we also think it is very good that we are having this debate today, both because of the latest leak, which is called the Panama leak, but also Lux Leaks and other cases that have taken place. It is very positive that we in the Danish Parliament maintain a focus on the fight against the use of tax havens, which we also did as late as December 2014, where we from the Danish People's Party were included in an agreement both in the Ministry of Taxation and an agreement that was concluded in the Ministry of Business and Industry, and we think that it is very good if you can continue the focus that is being put in place so that you can combat it. So it is quite good that we have this debate today. I would just like to start by stating that we in the Danish People's Party strongly distance ourselves from people who use tax havens and aggressive tax planning, but also from those advisors who, as it emerged in the latest scandal, sit and advise on the use of it. The fight against tax havens is a complex area in which it is not exactly possible to say that the solution lies to the right, as can be clearly seen, because it is an international problem which affects virtually all countries, but it also shows that the challenge and problem must be solved at international level, and that is why we fully support the fact that we in Denmark are actively going through the channels in which we are active, among other things. The OECD, the European Union and elsewhere, and that, among other things, we... As the Minister said, it is also trying to support initiatives such as: can be a blacklist of tax havens. I also think it is important that through our double taxation agreements we ensure that we get the right exchange of missionaries and ensure that proper taxation is applied in the various countries. What is crucial for the Danish People's Party, when you look at tax havens and the international perspective in it, is that you get information exchanged, that in short, you create transparency so that you can see who are the real owners behind a company, but also where the money is earned, so that we ensure that there is also the right tax in the country that is now to be paid. Then, of course, there is the international one in relation to the Danish one, where I believe that the main challenge lies at international level, but of course we in Denmark must also make sure that we have the most robust rules, so that we ensure that it is not Denmark that is used as a tax haven. There are two things you can look at overall. One is the punishment, and the other is the risk of discovery, where the penalty is the sanctions we can give to those who cheat and those who possibly advise on cheating. They must of course be significant, but I do believe that it is the second part which is the most important and where it lags the most, and that is the risk of discovery, because unfortunately we see that not many people are exposed and caught. When it comes, it is actually most delicious as Panama Leaks, and we should preferably go to a situation where, in fact, through the authorities themselves you can track down those things and not wait for some to leak different information. One of the things we need to look at, which I also have the impression of is what the FSA is looking at already, is, of course, whether we have the right reporting obligations for banks and advisors. I am thinking here of both the transfer of money itself, but also of who are the real owners, since now you are also trying to put in different strawmen or others as intermediaries. I would also like to point out here in my speech that I think it is a good thing that we have had a reduction in what is called a tax law council in the broad sense of the parties behind what is called legal certainty package II. Their first task will be to look at whether we now have the most robust rules on tax havens, and also to look at some of the fundamental things, for example. must purchase information from people who have provided it, perhaps illegally. However, I would just like to say that I think it is positive that we in the Danish Parliament have set the initiative in motion rather broadly, following on from the debate we have here today. However, as I said, I believe that we should actually focus most on the international part of it, because I also believe that there is a reason for this, for example. is Nordea, Luxembourg or Jyske Bank, Gibraltar, so there is a reason why it is not in the Danish branches of the banks that this is happening. So it is also obvious that we need to look at the international solution. Finally, I would like to take some time to say what I believe there is no solution, and that is what has been proposed, among other things. of some tax lawyers, that one should make such an amnesty model, that is, where one sets a penalty reduction for those who volunteer. We do not think this is a good idea for the sake of the Danes who pay their taxes, perhaps not with pleasure, but do so that they should be able to see that what we are actually potentially doing as one of our first initiatives should be that we reduced the penalty for those who have a great deal of money so that they can move around between countries with them. We don't think that's a good idea. Nor in relation to tax morality, which one can say is too downward because of the many scandals in the SKAT, it would be beneficial if one chose, as an initiative against tax havens, to say that one should have a reduction in penalties. Then we're about to be there). Finally, may I read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Socialists, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Alternative, the Radical Left, the SF and the Conservative People's Party, and it says: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government ensures that the new Tax Law Council quickly uncovers the scope of tax havens and how it can be limited, actively supports efforts in the EU and the OECD against tax havens and initiates political discussions with a view to negotiations when the FSA's statement on the role of banks is available. • V 55).
ParlaMint-DK_20160511132451	Thank you. There is one comment from Mr. Jens Joel, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511132456	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I'm glad we agree that this popular thing needs to be stopped. One of the ways to stop it is to ensure that SKAT has the necessary resources. One might fear that on top of this new information you will also get more things that SKAT could tackle. And there is my question to the Danish People's Party as to whether you want to help secure additional resources so that you can follow up on the new information without compromising the efforts elsewhere in the SKAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511132528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511132530	I can say there both from the point of view of the concrete, but also from a very general point of view, that I believe that it will be a task for us to look at widely in the Folketing, how we can create more resources for SKAT, both in relation to the crisis we would like to get SKAT out of, but I also believe in relation to the specific, because it is clear that when there is an international stove to ensure that there is an increased exchange of information between countries, that information must also be followed up. And it is clear that I think it is quite obvious that we should have a look at whether we now have the right tools and resources for it. I would also like to say that it has to come from the Treasury. We must make an assessment of whether we now have the right resources. I just want to say that if you come up with the assessment that you need extra staffing to sort out this information and follow it up, then we are also willing to help find those resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511132612	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511132614	I'm just gonna make sure I get it. Has the Danish People's Party deposited the initiative with the tax minister in relation to whether more resources are needed, or can it be imagined that Dansk Folkeparti actually says: Here we believe that more resources are needed if we are to follow it up? I was very pleased with the first part of the answer, but I was a little worried about whether it should come from Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, before DF will help to add more resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511132638	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511132639	No, it should be understood in this way that we in the Folketing are not part of the executive and therefore do not sit with our fingers in the mud and know how many employees it takes. I know, for example. Nor what they have of digital tools that can be used in relation to the developments we have. I also think that it would be logical if it were from the executive, that is, the Treasury, to come and say that SKAT might need 10, 20, 30, it could be 50 or 100 more employees, and then we have to look actively at it in the Folketing to find funding for it. 'Cause we're in over that. However, I do not have an overview as a tax rapporteur to be able to know precisely how much resources you are using today and how many you need in the future. And here it is just that I quietly say that if there is a desire or an assessment that this cannot be done with the resources you have today, we would also like to give the assurance from the Danish People's Party that we are willing to help find the resources to be found.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511132721	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511132734	Over the past year, the word tax havens has become very well known, unfortunately. We have heard stories of multinational companies, rich people and celebrities, as well as smaller fish, which should have been caught sending money into hiding from the tax authorities. According to the media, the roads to tax havens go through busy paths where certain banks, law firms and accountants have acted as willing guides, unfortunately. Let me distance myself clearly from the cases where people are trying to cheat Denmark for the tax dollars that they should pay. Hidden authorities cannot find the money and collect the rightful tax or check whether the tax haven is as much hiding as it is laundering funds obtained through serious crime, unfortunately. I am sorry to say that tax evasion is regrettable and also more than that. It is to the detriment of society, and it is in far longer ways than just the lack of tax payments. When some people put their money away from the public eye, it hits the trust of other taxpayers. Why should a carpenter's master or a teacher or a middle manager pay his taxes when others seem to be free? To send money into tax havens means to hide it from the authorities and thus avoid paying the tax that would otherwise have to be paid. This undermines the foundations of the welfare society, and one can only regret that. Common to the great leaks and scandals of recent years is the fact that, in addition to acquiring letter-running names and great public attention, they cross national borders. Tax havens are an international problem which must be tackled internationally. Denmark is acting under the auspices of the EU and the OECD. In the latter, 36 tax administrations work together and this makes a noticeable difference. International cooperation is the way forward to solve the problems of tax havens. Panama Papers, Lux Leaks etc. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is with good reason that it is easy to draw the fast conclusion that the penalty must then be increased and the banking legislation tightened even more. I believe, however, that we already have a severe punishment. In addition to possible prison sentences, you also have to pay a fine equivalent to the tax you have failed to pay. And, unfortunately, as far as the banks are concerned, we see that some banks act as benevolent advisers when it comes to avoiding paying taxes. It's not okay. And the current case of Panama Papers is an opportunity to remind the banks of their responsibilities. In addition, we must say that according to the Finance Council, reports by the banks to the Public Prosecutor for Special Economic and International Crime have increased significantly over recent years, among others. as a result of the EU Money Laundering Directive. The banks provide valuable access and material for tax purposes. There are stingy vessels, and we're gonna have to knock them down. It is also only in the interests of the industry itself. However, I do not believe that this is a reason to tighten the framework further at this stage in this matter. We have asked the Danish FSA to bury it here and make a statement, and on that basis we will see what is needed. I welcome the fact that there is broad political consensus at home on the need to combat tax havens and tax evasion. This is an important step towards a strong Danish voice in an international context where tax havens should be combated. The position of the Left is that Denmark should continue to contribute to international action against tax havens. On behalf of the Left, I would like to say that we support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. And let me add that we are also very pleased that we have just recently adopted country-by-country reports in the Folketing on the basis of the OECD. These are some of the constructive things that help bring us closer to legislation where we can face some of these problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511133150	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are some comments, and first of all it is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511133156	Thank you. It is very good to hear that we all seem to agree that this is a major problem. We also agree that a great deal of it needs to be handled through international agreements in the EU, OECD etc., but there is also something we can do from here at home, but we do not have enough resources in the SKAT to follow up and get some of the things that are going on, and it is SF's wish that we should have more funding for it. But there is something else quite specifically that I cannot understand, and that is why there are virtually no parties in the Folketing who have supported it when the SF has put forward proposals to put its own house in order. We have these K/S's, limited companies, which are almost globally known for the fact that it is a way of passing through capital in Denmark it has been revealed over and over again in DR documentary broadcasts, also recently but there one could get order in one's own house by ensuring that we at least do not contribute to being a tax haven country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511133259	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511133300	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen had two questions, as far as I could hear. The first was about resources in the SKAT. We are, of course, very aware of the situation in the SKAT. SKAT has been under pressure recently, which is why we have added additional resources in relation to what was planned and we have allocated them to the recovery of dividend tax. Fortunately, it is the case that the previous government actually allocated additional resources to combat tax havens, so we are quite well manned at this time. So at this stage we do not think there is any further need here, but we are following it closely to be sure that we have what is needed at all times. As far as limited companies are concerned, it may be a little off the subject here, but one can talk about that anyway. We have just received a statement, and that is one of the things that we need to have looked at more closely. But basically, limited companies are not used as tax havens, so there are stories that they are used as tax havens in Denmark, but there are also limited companies that are not used as tax havens, and that should be borne in mind; not everyone does. So, if we are to do something, we must at least be aware that we are not destroying all those who stay within the law. Because even if we want to hit those who break the law, we also want to ensure that people who do not break the law can continue to do what they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511133409	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511133411	Thank you. Now there is absolutely no reason for you to have a limited partnership. What you want to use limited companies for legitimate purposes is something you can have in all sorts of other forms of company. There are many legal limited companies. That's not what we're saying. But our proposal was, of course, to have some openness and some taxation of these limited companies. I do not think it is off the agenda. The agenda is about tax havens, and if we are to hold the tab high and go to Brussels and elsewhere and say that now we have to put this right, we must also have our own house in order. We do not have that with the limited companies, although various ministers have said year after year that they would look at it, but nothing really happens. So I would appeal to the Left for this to be looked at so that we can at least have our own house in order.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511133459	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511133500	But let me make it clear that we are not in favour of tax havens in Denmark either. There aren't double standards here, are there? Of course we should not have tax havens in Denmark. But what I am just trying to say is that the picture is not so black and white that you can just say that it is all illegal, and I am glad that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen also recognises that. It's not so black and white that everyone breaks the law because they have a limited partnership. I therefore do not think that the entire structure of the company should be abolished. As long as you stay within the law, I think it is okay, but I do not think it is okay if you have tax havens in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511133531	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511133533	I would like to ask you about the international opportunities to do something and to ensure, on behalf of Denmark, that the government could be a pioneer country in this field. The government says it is international, it has to happen, but there are not really any concrete instructions on how the government will do it. The Minister mentioned earlier that the government will support the proposal that has come from the Commission, but we also know that there are countries that are very reluctant and reluctant and are trying to water down this kind of action. I think we should go the other way, for example. in relation to the limit that is, when you are covered by these rules on having to pay country-to-country accounts, so that you can ensure that the tax is paid where the money is earned. There, then, we have to have a turnover of over 750 million. Before you are covered by these rules. It could well have been a considerably lower amount, an amount as low as 40 million. The euro, which is, after all, an amount limit that is used in other ways in the EU system. Is this something the government and the Left support, in other words, that we should work for more companies to be included in country-by-country accounts?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511133640	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511133642	Generally speaking, when we have international negotiations, we are trying to push for as good rules as possible. But we are not in favour of us having special rules in Denmark, if that is what Mr. Jesper Petersen asks; there we must have the same rules. But of course we are very aware of how to ensure that we get the best possible help in this international context. It is also recognised that Denmark is indeed well advanced in the fight against economic crime internationally, and we must continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511133709	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511133711	I simply do not understand that answer, because I am asking about international action. The Left keeps saying: let us not only discuss national conditions, but international conditions, because that is what is battling. Then I ask you about them, but Mrs Louise Schack Elholm provides an answer about our national achievements. Will the government, in the negotiations that are taking place in the European Union, work to reduce the threshold for the country-by-country accounts, so that more people are covered by them, and to get more coverage of the measures being used to ensure correct taxation? That is what I was asking, so I hope Mrs Louise Schack Elholm will answer that in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511133748	Here you go, Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511133749	Now it wasn't quite clear whether it was because you thought we should push it by going in front of the others or whether it was in the negotiations in general. After all, I am not in government, I am in the governing party, but not in the government, so I cannot answer completely on behalf of the government, I can answer on behalf of the Left. And in the Left we are very aware of how we are trying all the way to push on the right path. I am not in the negotiations myself because I am not in the government, so I cannot tell you exactly what is happening in the negotiations. But that is something that we are very aware of, and fortunately it is also something that the official work is aware of in relation to the fact that it is the agenda which, regardless of who has the power in Denmark, is that we must be one of the countries that is pressing for us to go as far as possible in international cooperation in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511133836	Thank you for that and you do not address Members directly. Then it is Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen, the Social Democrat, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511133843	Thank you. The Left is really good at fine words, but frankly I think that what we have heard from the platform in relation to what they are going to do about this problem, which is it would suit the government to be more offensive in this area, I have to say. Yesterday we got more information about the Panama papers, and it takes a lot of resources for SKAT to process it so it can turn into cases. Is that the resources the government is willing to look at dropping off? Is the Left in favour of the SKAT being given the necessary resources so that the information we now have can actually be lifted up and become cases, so that those who have cheated are also punished?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511133924	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511133925	At first sight, we believe that resources have been set aside, but it is clear that, when we have looked at what has come in, we must also assess whether there is a need for extra, and that is why we are following the situation closely and have not determined one hundred percent. But at this stage, the reports we are getting from SKAT are that there are enough resources in this area, and that is, of course, what we are following. The Socialists would probably have done the same when they were in government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511133950	Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511133951	Okay, but at least we'll look forward to hearing more about that. So I would like to ask you about this harsh pressure that the government and the Left are putting on the international scene: what is it quite concrete that the Left and the Government have taken the lead in international initiatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511134008	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511134009	The Left and therefore the Government are doing what they can to push internationally to achieve some results in this area, and this is happening continuously and constantly in the negotiations and on many different fronts. However, much of what has happened at the present time has actually happened during the reign of the Socialists, because it takes some time, from something being agreed internationally, until it can be translated into Danish legislation. So much of this is also something that we have continued from the time of the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511134040	Sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511134043	In other words, I have to follow up on the issues that have been raised, because the rapporteur himself mentions in the rapporteur's speech that we have to work internationally and says that the government and now I am quoting the press for as good rules as possible. Then it is not quite unreasonable to ask the rapporteur of the Left, who is, after all, the rapporteur of the governing party, what rules the government is pushing for at international level. It's just that it's quite specific. It can't be a secret, can it? And are there more things the government is going to do now on top of that with Panama Papers?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511134118	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511134119	Now it is not usually the case that reports are constantly being presented on how the negotiations are going, and I am not in government, but I am in the governing party, so I am not in the negotiations myself and cannot tell exactly how they are going. But what I can say is that we are generally pushing on the international stage, and one of the things you can see is that we are some of the first to implement the legislation and the agreements we are making. Just a few months ago, as I mentioned myself in the speech, we adopted countries for country reports and large parts of the agreements we have concluded in the OECD to avoid tax havens. So we do what we can to get these things through and to show the way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511134202	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511134204	Should I then understand that taking the lead is about being quick to implement EU rules? So, what is it that is not the government, but as the Liberal and Democratic Group's rapporteur, that needs to be tightened up? Will the Left, for example? Will it help to tighten up the international rules on accounting standards? It's just one example.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511134223	Here you go, Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511134225	After all, we should never quite count on it when the opponents quote the ruling party. Because that's not all I said. I said that we are both working on the international level, but of course it also has an impact on how quickly we implement the rules, and we are some of those who have been quickest to implement it. And that also puts pressure on it in relation to the other countries having to implement the agreements that we have concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511134249	Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511134252	I have now put a written question to the government on what the government thinks about the country-by-country report proposal presented by the Commission. The question is whether the government thinks this is sufficient when it states that it applies only within the EU, but not for tax havens outside the EU. And the second question I am asking is whether it is sufficient when it appears from the proposal that it is companies with profits of over 750 million. EUR 10-15 per cent; of all multinational companies which are covered. Then the government answers that you've gone to think box with that. Is this a particularly active approach to the Commission's proposal? My opinion is that if you were very active in this, you would say immediately: this is simply not enough. We need to reduce the amount for which companies are covered, so that we have more companies and, of course, we need to ensure that it is not just a country for country reporting within the EU's borders. Are the two things an indication that we can get from the rapporteur on the left today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511134355	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511134356	As the Minister said, we are very positive about the EU's proposals. Perhaps you would like more countries to be included. Well, I'd be happy if all the countries of the world would make land for country reports. That would be a good thing, because then you would have the greater transparency and transparency that would enable you to catch these things to a greater extent. However, it is difficult to decide in the European Union that the rest of the world should also make country for country reports. So I think that is a little outside the competence of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511134426	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511134428	However, the European Union is a great player and there is no doubt that the proposal put forward by the Commission is a step forward. There should be no doubt about that, and everyone in this Parliament agrees on that. But it is not ambitious enough. If the European Union, which is a large bloc, chooses to say to certain countries: we want that information, otherwise we will come after you, it is something that can actually bear something. We have seen the Americans do this in relation to a Swiss bank, where they have said: we need information about the people and people who have used tax havens and who are in your bank. And if you don't, we're gonna impose a 30 percent penalty on you. on all transfers that you make to our country, the United States. That kind of handle is something you have when you're a big player. In the Enhedslisten, we are EU opponents. We have some views on how the European Union should basically be organised in a different way. But we are not stupider than that we, in a European Union that exists, would like to take advantage of the opportunities that exist. And here there is an obvious possibility of actually using a tool that exists. So why can we not get a statement from the Left rapporteur that this is something that the Left is also interested in taking advantage of?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511134532	Thank you, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511134534	Generally speaking, we are trying to make things go in the right direction, so there is absolutely no doubt that we are always aware of what we can do in the different places. However, I also believe that it is difficult to achieve the same consensus in the European Union that can be achieved in the United States on such measures and therefore stand with the same force. But that, after all, is what we are trying to do, including through these countries to country reports. It may be something that can help to show the way and push for the OECD to accept that it will be a slightly more far-reaching model rather than that of the OECD. In other words, it goes beyond what was under the auspices of the OECD, so we will have more countries. I think we can put pressure through the European Union, and we are also trying to do so, but we should not think that the European Union, like the United States, is unfortunately a united voice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511134615	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten, go ahead. I know there may be a need to ask questions. But perhaps it would be a good idea to sit down at the rapporteur's table as rapporteur, who is not going to ask questions. Then we'll spend a little less time on it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511134638	Thank you. There is money for welfare in Denmark. There's a lot of money in this country if you take them from the right places. Somewhere you could take them away from here these days there's a discussion about them... were the fighter planes that will cost 1 billion. kr. The play. It is a cost of between 20 and 30 billion. kr., and the operating costs for the next 20-30 years will be between 80 and 100 billion. kr. There are other examples. We could roll back some of the tax reductions introduced by the previous government together with the bourgeois, including the Danish People's Party, and such as: costs billions of kroner each year and also costs billions of kroner in 2016. And then there is what we are discussing here today, tax havens where, according to the National Bank, Danes have between 100 and 150 billion. kr. placed in tax havens. If they were taxed properly, it is estimated, it would give between 3 and 5 billion. kr. extra in the Treasury a year. These are all amounts that can be used for more teachers in kindergartens, more employees in home care, more nurses in hospitals and better welfare at all. So there's enough money in this community if we just take them in the right places. That is why it is also incredibly important that we do not have a society where wealthy people can take advantage of tax evasion and save their fortunes in tax havens, while all of us each day go and pay our taxes to the welfare fund. The debate here today is of course important in that we have to do something international, and fortunately a lot of things are happening internationally, and tax havens have been very much on the agenda for the last ten years. It is becoming more and more clear that people around the world will not tolerate the cheating of taxes in tax havens in the way that is still happening. So a lot is happening and a lot needs to happen. It is there too, what should be said, that the main effort must be made. But we must also look at what we can do nationally. This is where I think the government's a little bit weird. In the consultations we have had with the tax minister, too, it has been the case that the tax minister has said that there must be a lot of international action, but otherwise we must be calm, and it is not necessary to do so many things nationally, because it is all about things that can be done internationally. But it is also necessary to look at what we can do nationally. Some of the things that Enhedslisten has been promoting are to say that we need to look more at the advisors who advise on tax havens, where there is not a single counselor who has been punished or put in prison for helping with advice on how to illegally store his money in tax havens. Even in the case of large company timber cases from the 1990s, a single adviser has not been sentenced to prison. That is absurd, because it is usually the case that if you participate in illegal activities, for example. planning a bank robbery is not such that you can escape punishment, because then the law's long arm will come after you. Unfortunately, however, in the field of advisory services, we have legislation which means that in practice it is completely risk-free for advisers to advise on how wealthy people can illegally store their money in tax havens. We simply need to change that. We need to look at the criminal code so that we can look more closely at how advice can be criminalised in itself, regardless of which specific tax fraud it may be part of. The second thing that is also important to say is that we can do something more for publication. For example, banks should: If they do not wish to enter into voluntary agreements, they are forced to publish which companies they cooperate with in tax havens. It would be incredibly nice to know for banks' customers, for us as politicians, for citizens in general and for those banks that do not use this kind of creepy collaborators, what cooperation banks have with these kinds of companies, such as these. Mossack Fonseca, Panama. Last but not least, we have to look at how we can add many more resources to the SKAT. I have said it many times from this platform, and I have to say it again, because there has not yet been an announcement from the government or from a majority in the Folketing that you want to add more resources to SKAT: SKAT will have to save over the next few years towards 2019 over 1 billion. kr. In 2019, SKAT's budget will be over 500 million. kr. less than it is today. This is, of course, something that will also affect the fight against tax havens. So we need more resources for SKAT, too. Otherwise, I would say that the Enhedslisten can support the proposal for adoption that has been tabled. It goes far enough, it is weak, and I think we would have had a more precise and good proposal if the opposition had joined forces today, but there are things that we agree with, so the Enhedslisten will vote in favour of the proposal for adoption in the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511135117	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511135120	Thank you. Well, I would just like to say thank you to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur for the new notes in the proposal, because a large part of his rapporteur's speech was used to say that there should be higher penalties. The unitary list usually says down here in the Assembly Hall that punishment doesn't work. I would just like to express my sincere thanks for this, because it is something that we in the Danish People's Party are also very concerned about, namely that in many areas the penalty must be met. I think it is a bit of a new tone, and that is, in fact, a positive one. I would just like to ask the Enhedslisten's rapporteur what the penalty framework is today for those who use tax havens, but also the counsellors, and what is one thinking that the penalty framework should be on the way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511135155	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511135156	Two things. One is that higher penalties actually have an effect where we talk about a carefully organized and well planned crime if you can call it crime. There we know that the level of punishment and the risk of discovery are of great importance to whether or not crime is committed. So just when we talk about financial crime and serious financial crime, we are dealing with an area where higher penalties actually work. We know that. And that is why we say in the Enhedslisten that in this area it actually makes sense to raise the penalty or to have high penalties. Then there is the question of the penalty framework. In fact, it is not so much the penalty itself that Enhedslisten focuses on raising, because it is high today. I think it's 8 years old. You could raise it to 10 years. It won't make much difference. What is important in relation to this is to look at the responsibilities of the advisors and to look at how to look separately at how the counselors can be criminalised, look at how the advice itself can be criminal, just as it is criminal to plan a bank robbery.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511135306	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511135307	Thank you. It is quite true that, on the one hand, it is the risk of discovery and, on the other hand, the level of punishment. After all, the two things must play together, and I am glad that the Enhedslisten recognises that both are important when it comes to the fact that you have an incentive not to commit crime. I think what you hear from Enhedslisten is typically that it has nothing to do with the punishment, but that you have to screw on many other things. So, after all, thank you from here for recognising that the penalty is also important. I would also just like to hear Enhedslisten if you do not agree that the major problem here is in fact the risk of discovery. As Enhedslisten says, not many advisors get caught up in this, but it is, of course, because the discovery risk is too small both internationally and in Denmark. So I totally agree that we should have looked at it. I am also pleased with the proposal for adoption supported by the Enhedslisten and that we will have some discussions and potential negotiations, but does Enhedslisten not just agree that it is probably the discovery risk that is the biggest problem here and not the penalty?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511135401	Here you go to the rapporteur, sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511135403	As I said, the risk of discovery here is more important than the level of punishment, because the level of punishment as such is already high today. But what is important to say here is that what we are proposing with regard to counsellors is that the very thing to advise on something criminal, illegal use of tax havens is what we want to criminalise, so that, for example, if you do not want to do so. gets information from a tax haven that it has happened without the counselor involved having been convicted, in connection with a specific case of tax fraud can judge people. Too often this will be the case, and that is why many of these advisors have never been convicted... that a case should be cut by a prosecutor in a court of law, and that is where we see the counsellor being cut off. That is why it is important that we focus on how the advisors' illegal tax advice can be convicted, how we can ensure that people who cheat and cheat and help others hide money in tax havens can be convicted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511135501	Thank you to the rapporteur. No, there is just one brief comment from Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511135508	I understand the interest in getting those who help to be convicted to a greater extent, and I also sympathise with it. But just for the record, because it's always a good custom to fund your suggestions... it costs money to punish more people, funny enough it costs money like that... I want to hear: How does Enhedslisten intend to finance it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511135529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511135531	I am so happy every time I'm asked how I want to finance Enhedslisten's policy, because it gives me every opportunity to tell you that the things we do and the things we prioritise are about political elections here in Denmark. When you choose to buy fighter planes that cost 1 billion. kr. the piece; when you choose to buy fighter planes, which over the next 20-30 years will cost 80-100 billion. kr. to operate and maintain; when you choose to say that the top tax should be reduced, which alone costs 2 billion. kr. in 2016, following the 2012 tax reform; when you choose to say that corporate tax must be reduced, as was done in 2012, and that alone costs 3 billion. kr. In 2016, it's obvious that there's enough money in this society if you just choose to use them in the right places and not in the wrong places.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511135619	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511135622	Unfortunately, that was not very concrete. I understand that it sounds good and something like that, but it's hard to say exactly where the money should come from. Exactly where will you find the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511135632	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511135634	I think I have just given some very concrete examples. I can give another concrete example. Should we take the soft drinks tax that has been abolished? It's $600 million. kr. a year and has no effect on cross-border trade, and that is why it is money out in the blue. 600 million kr. There is a great deal of legal certainty in favour of this. I would very much like to explain other funding proposals to the author of the Left, but I do not think time will allow it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511135701	Thanks to Enhedslisten. The next rapporteur is Mrs Merete Riisager, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511135710	A jar of gold at the end of the rainbow is what the left wing hopes to find in Panama or somewhere else where rich Danes may have dug their wealth into shelter from the Danish tax authorities. On 1 May, various parties on the left tried to outdo each other fantasies about what could be bought for all this fantastic money: more nurses, more schoolteachers, more of it all. It is so great with a pot of gold, because it frees you from looking straight to where you stand and ensuring that the conditions for creating sustainable or so-called sustainable growth are there. Years ago the jar of gold lay in the North Sea, now it lies in Panama, but the thought set is the same: in Denmark we do not have to take our hands out of our pockets and change the basic structures that put growth and wealth creation at a standstill. We must not deal with the fact that there are far too few people to support too many people. We should not think about the fact that our tax burden puts companies and entrepreneurs at a standstill and scares investments out of Denmark. We should not relate to the fact that education policy and foreign policy are so linked that Denmark is becoming less and less economically sustainable. We don't care, because there's a pot of gold waiting at the end of the rainbow. The Liberal Alliance is often used by the left as a prügelknabe in discussions about tax and tax fraud, but we can bear that. We have made it quite clear that we want to fight economic crime hard, and fortunately we are quite good at that here in Denmark. The Liberal Alliance wants to crack down on corruption if such behavior should rooted itself in Denmark. Fortunately, studies show that we are still one of the least corrupt countries in the world. The worldwide scandal of the Panamanian papers seems to be primarily about two things: economic crime and corruption. This is a behaviour that we will not tolerate and we want skilled officials to work together internationally to combat such forms of crime. We sympathise with the people who must be drawn with corrupt states leaders and oligarchs who steal their money and hide it in other countries. We'd like to help them where we can. However, when the left has called for this urgent request, it does not seem to be focusing on financial crime and corruption. The Left has a hope that somewhere abroad there are untaxed billions that are ready to be used in Denmark. But we do not yet know much about all this, and that is why it is quite difficult to discuss it. In the Liberal Alliance, we have allowed ourselves to take the cautious view that we are discussing solving problems when we know the extent of the problems. But, of course, we will be here today when a majority of parties have wanted to discuss the problems, even though very little is still known. There is a list of 65 people from Denmark who are allegedly involved in the Panama scandal. How many of these are Danish citizens resident in Denmark we do not yet know. Nor do we know how much money is involved and whether it is a matter of crime, tax evasion or legal transactions. I know that the left will soon go cucumber in colours and stripes, because the Liberal Alliance will not override the principles of legal certainty and the need for legal activities now and here, until we know the extent and nature of the problems. That's gonna be it. I am here today to insist that an analysis be made before action is taken and that we crack down on crime and take a sober debate on cross-border economic transactions. The Liberal Alliance has its own proposal for adoption in connection with F 39, and I would therefore like to make the following proposals for adoption by the Danish Parliament, taking note of the statement by the Minister for Taxation. The Danish Parliament also notes that the Government ensures that the Tax Law Council, which is set up, looks at the rules and extent of the use of tax havens and supports efforts to conclude international agreements to prevent tax havens. V 56) Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511140118	Thank you. The proposal is part of the further debate. There are some brief comments. The first one's for sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511140125	Thank you. I would just like to start by apologising to the Liberal Alliance and Liberal Alliance rapporteur. It must be understood that the Liberal Alliance is the prügelknabe of the left, a victim of vicious left-wing people who go completely cucumber, and it is certainly appropriate to apologise. For it was a very fine story on the part of the Liberal Alliance that there is no golden pot at the end of the rainbow or maybe there is and that in reality it is completely unsolved whether or not something illegal has happened. However, it is a little thought-provoking, I think, at the hearing we held here in the Danish Parliament, a director of Nordea regretted the behaviour that Nordea had before 2009, which helped to create the designs that are illegal. You've distanced yourself from that. I guess it's not such a vicious leftist rhetoric. Now the Liberal Alliance is talking about sustainable growth. Can we not agree that sustainable growth is about keeping within the framework of the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511140230	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511140233	Is sustainable growth about keeping within the framework of the law? I think it's a little mixed up. It seems to me that sustainable growth is about growth that can sustain itself, and it must, of course, take place within the framework of the law. Of course. As I mentioned in my speech, we are quite ready to combat financial crime and cases of breaking the law. We'd love to. What we find problematic is, among other things, when we mix things up, i.e. when we do not distinguish between things that are illegal and things that are not illegal. It is quite important to make that distinction so that the various challenges can be discussed separately.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511140321	Sir. Jeppe Bruus, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511140322	At the risk of being malicious, I have to say that I simply did not understand the latter. Nordea says something happened before 2009, which was perhaps illegal, and at best something that they distance themselves from. I guess that's pretty clear. And not only Nordea, but others also distance themselves from some of the illegal methods that have been used. So that's not the whole fake thing. What does the Liberal Alliance intend to do to counter the illegal practices that are taking place?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511140354	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511140355	As I just said, we are going to have a full overview of it. What exactly has happened? How much money is this? Who did what? This is an urgent question, and we respect that, but in proposing concrete solutions it is just a very good idea to have insight before proposing concrete solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511140419	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511140423	I have a feeling that the purpose of Mrs Merete Riisager's speech was to get us to stand up and distance ourselves from the way the Liberal Alliance views this matter, and I would like to welcome the invitation, because I thought it was absolutely horrible to hear the speech just made by Mrs Merete Riisager. The whole concept of tax havens is, of course, that it is secret what is going on, that you will deliberately hide your means in order to avoid taxation or prevent the police from getting hold of something that has come about by financial crime or crime in other ways. That's the whole point, and that's why you don't know exactly what's around. But you can ask the National Bank, you can ask the European Commission, you can ask independent researchers who are trying to identify the cash flows that exist. Then you get different amounts, but there is no doubt whatsoever that it is a haven for crime and that there is massive crime, massive tax evasion, which costs Danish society and countries all over the world incredibly much money. I don't have to ask you any questions. The Liberal Alliance has exhibited itself completely with the speech that has been made. And if it is liberalism to undermine pressure against those who break the law, then I simply do not understand where your ideology has been taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511140542	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511140542-2	I do not understand that comment at all, because I have made it very clear that we want to fight crime and that we want to fight tax fraud so that Mr. Jesper Petersen has no doubt about it. That's why I don't see what it is, sir. Jesper Petersen is so offended. What I said in my speech was that on the left you paint a picture of a jar of gold that you don't know about exists or not. You can do that. I prefer that we gain insight, and of course we will get that insight when we pursue these matters and see what they lead to. I think that is quite good and we should do so. We have to fight crime, and we have to fight tax fraud, so I don't know what that is, sir. Jesper Petersen is so offended.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511140627	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511140628	I am very puzzled that Liberal Alliance troops are up today and are using their intervention on the ground instead of contributing to the pressure and fighting tax havens and combating financial crime. To try to water down, how big the problem really is, whether there is any money at all we are missing in taxation. Of course there is. That's billions of dollars it's all about. We don't know exactly, and the whole concept of tax havens is that we shouldn't know what's out there. So instead of contributing to the pressure and trying to combat tax havens, attempts are being made to water down the pressure that is on it. As a citizen, I am outraged by it, and I do not understand why people will be familiar with those who pay their taxes every month as they should. But that is the view of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511140710	Thank you. Rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511140711	I am not trying to water down anything, but I will insist on some decency in this debate, following the logic of other policy areas. I would also insist that when we adopt something in the field of education, we get to grips with what problems we want to solve. Then we'll analyze them first. I would insist that when we resolve problems in the field of employment, we get to grips with what the problem is before we propose a solution. That's quite common logic, and Mr. Jesper Petersen well speak up to again some demonization. I'm not going to let that influence me. It is a perfectly logical step-by-step rationale to analyse things before proposing a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511140759	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511140800	I have to say that I am fairly disgusted by that speech, because it is being wrapped in a rhetoric that there are also such high taxes in this country, and whether it is at all a problem, because we know nothing. That's not true. After all, we know something because, fortunately, in recent years, there has been a focus on it from both the European Commission, the OECD and several international bodies and researchers, etc., who have tried to assess how much money we are missing through different methods. As far as Denmark is concerned, the best offer is that it is between 10 and 20 billion a year. I cannot understand why, as a liberalist party, this kind of thing, let us just call it distortion of competition, is in order. Small and medium-sized enterprises, which cannot hire expensive lawyers, accountants or others to help them avoid paying taxes, must then bear that burden. If you are interested in a lower tax, are you not also interested in getting the legitimate tax revenue for Denmark? We could then pursue the goals of the Liberal Alliance better than to say: well, now we have more money in the bag, because there is not this crooked competition to avoid paying taxes. That's the burden you're imposing...
ParlaMint-DK_20160511140927	Thank you. When I say thank you up to three times, it is because you have exceeded your speaking time a great deal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511140931	I have not said anything about tax evasion or crime being okay, so please do not put such words in my mouth. I think that is a strange way of arguing. Let's discuss what we actually disagree about, but the thing about putting things in my mouth that I haven't said, I really don't like it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511140950	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511140952	But now the rapporteur's speech is videotaped, and it was wrapped in a rhetoric that it is almost tax refugees; that it is a pity for people that there is a high tax in this country; that it is a pity for companies; and that business suffers. It is more to the detriment of business that some cheat and do not want to contribute, so the rest must bear a greater share of the burden. The rapporteur said verbatim: we do not know enough. But as Mr. Jesper Petersen mentioned, it is not possible to compare it here with education or health, because it is not surrounded by crime and secrets etc. The only thing we can do then is to devote extra resources to precisely prosecuting and getting more knowledge about this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511141037	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511141038	I think it is a good thing that my speech is taped because I have not said any of what the SF's rapporteur puts in my mouth. I think this is a very strange way of debating this House, which I really find indecent. I think we should debate the issues on which we disagree and not say about each other that we have said something that we have not said, but relate to what has actually been said. I have not justified tax evasion or crime at all. I want to fight that. I have now repeated this quite a few times, and I would ask the SF rapporteur to take note and respect that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511141110	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511141123	Thank you. It has been a day of joy until we met, because there are really many parties who agree that we need to do something about this. I would like to start by saying that in the alternative, we, like the others who have spoken here in space, are fundamentally opposed to tax havens. We can then disagree on how to get there and what interests we take on the road. That is why I am not going to talk about it much more or try to outdo anyone in how much we have to do. Instead, I would like, in the context of the negotiations to which all parties have now been invited to move forward with this, and as a result, hopefully, our proposal for adoption has put a little pressure on us to take place before too long, to start looking at how we can agree on this. In fact, I think it might be interesting to start from Mrs Merete Riisager's speech, because today it was the Liberal Alliance that was outside the community. We also often try in the alternative with others to stand as those who are not equal. I can actually understand some of what Mrs Merete Riisager says. I very much disagree with parts of it, but I think it is important that, when the Liberal Alliance goes out and explains why they are against tax havens, but do not want to act until they see that there is a proper analysis, we try to listen a little, because it might well be that they actually have pure flour in the bag, that is to say they do want to fight what we do, but that for some reason they do not think that everything has been elucidated and that they are therefore afraid that there are some of the interests they are defending, or some of the positions they have that are actually compromised by this. It could be some business companies that are being imposed on something that is actually not in order because everything is going on as it should. I have said that I am fundamentally opposed to tax havens, but I just find it interesting to say that it is the Liberal Alliance too. So if we're going to get on with this in a way that we can collect something and not least collect something outside of Denmark, we just have to be able to accommodate that we have a speaker who's making a little fun of some of us. I almost think it's a way of uniting us saying that we're going cucumber. If, at the end of the day, you all turn green and we can gather around something, because we are going up a point, then we are all over the red and the blue, and right now I think that the debate in here, although I have signed with the majority, reflects that we refuse to understand what it is really for any arguments coming from the Liberal Alliance. We need to look after the interests that our companies here in Denmark actually have. On the banks that we had in consultation recently, I would say that I simply could not get a knot out of them. I was shocked that they did not want to accommodate us any better, even though I asked over and over again, and I think that these are some of the interests of the Liberal Alliance, and I would like to go where we can make everyone think that the way we work with this is a good way. I am sorry that we are not pushing any more for the fact that we are not demanding more of our advisers and of our financial sector. In Denmark we should be just some of those who took the lead, because we cannot change the world, but we can change ourselves, and there we just have to say that in terms of being non-corrupt, in terms of being able to monitor what is happening, we are in the tax area in Denmark really, really, very far ahead. It may well be that we are in line with the others, and this is where I start to disagree with the Liberal Alliance, because although we are in a very, very good place, we need to do better and we need to invest heavily in our tax system and add a lot of resources, which we in the alternative have also done. We need a lot more resources to contain this, because tax havens are a place where nothing is found. There is something that disappears, there is someone who lacks ownership in terms of solving the tasks they actually had to do, and it is often associated with resources. I think it is important, in order for us to move forward in these negotiations, that we look at the fact that Denmark is actually doing really, really well. We can do better, but in the dialogue we are going to have it will probably be someone other than me and the Alternative... one simply has to look at the fact that if we are to have them outside Denmark to listen to us, we have to be able to meet that they have some challenges that we do not have. The Liberal Alliance offered them a bid today, and I very much disagree with many of them, but we need to be able to accommodate the positions of the Liberal Alliance in this area, even if we are going to move forward in some good negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511141557	Thank you. It was the clock that proved wrong before, but now the speaking time is spent. Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next one is sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511141615	This is an important question because it is an incredibly important issue. It is an almost symbolic coincidence that in the year when SKAT and Denmark's tax administration meet its biggest crisis to date, it is also the year when it was made quite clear that tax havens are a challenge for our welfare society and are something that we need to stand together to combat. It is therefore gratifying in itself that there is such a broad consensus, and it is also gratifying that the efforts we are experiencing at international level are improving. It is in the adoption that we support that, as we learn more about the extent of tax havens here in Denmark, and it is both when the Danish Finance Council holds out with their statement, but also when the new Tax Law Council is allowed to make their best offer on how it can be dealt with, we sit together here in Denmark and try to find out in broad understanding how much can be done. And there is no doubt that more can be done. But here and now there is a need for answers from the Minister to two questions. One is about home. I do not think it is just me who has the feeling that there has been an administration in the SKAT that has somehow been more busy with or more concerned with that it seems very zealous to go after the small fish, but perhaps a little less zealous for the big fish. One of the things that has been raised several times today is the question of resources. On the radical side, we have become convinced that there is a need to strengthen resources when it comes to coming after what might be called the bigger cheats. The first question to the Minister is therefore, in all its simplicity, whether the Minister is constantly working on it. The Minister has had the opportunity to reply to this before, but since it is not only the Minister, but also the Finance Minister and the government as such, that will have to be behind it here, I would just like to say that this is not the last time that the Minister will have the question, because we intend to stick to that agenda, because we believe it is absolutely essential that people believe in SKAT and in the legal certainty that we should be able to expect from SKAT, both in order to avoid zeal for the small fish, but also in order to actually go after the big fish that will not contribute to the community. The second question, then, follows on from what has also been mentioned by several others: the mandate with which the Minister of Taxation equips our officials in Brussels. For right now there is a very intense, great debate in the European Union about how effective the European Union should be, and it is no secret that unfortunately there are some countries in the European Union that do not want the tightening up of the Land Reporting Directive that other countries want. In concrete terms, it is the two most important things about whether to have a publication of the accounts of all countries in which the groups in question have activities, not only on EU territory but also outside, and it is about which companies this should include, i.e. whether it is only those that have more than 750 million. euros in circulation, or if you could go further down and get more. And finally, there's a discussion about which information should be covered by this reporting. These are information that companies already have, so there is little administrative cost in publishing them. We know it works, we know it from the banks, and that is why I can imagine nothing more than that our tenacious tax minister stands up on the chair and table down in Brussels when this is discussed here in the Council of Ministers and says: of course, Denmark is among the countries that are the hardest and most actively supporting as effective land reporting as possible and helping the progressive Commissioners who are fighting the same battle in the European Union. But it's always nice to confirm that this is not such a moving Danish meatball doll. This is a case that Denmark is fighting, and we are fighting it hard and fervently because it is there, it is battling something.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511142024	Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511142042	Sending money into tax havens is stealing from the community. It is like stuffing money that could be spent on kindergartens, nursing homes, railways and climate protection, into your own pocket. We must do everything we can to close the gaps that enable this kind of rich-man stealing in broad daylight. Panama is being used as a Hellenic for rich Danes, rich men from all over the world who would like to send their money into tax havens. It has to be stopped, and therefore SF presented as far back as 2014 after the so-called Lux Leaks an initiative with three concrete proposals to make tax fraud more difficult through complex tax havens. We repeated this again this year with a follow-up action following the unveiling of the so-called Panama Papers. In the SF, we believe that we should clarify in the legislation that, of course, a third country cannot be used as a staging point for shady tax structures, such as we. have seen with e.g. Luxembourg and Panama. We cannot wait for EU rules to be changed. We do, but Denmark can do much more than we do today. In SF we will among other things. prevent Denmark from being abused in the ingenious constructions of multinational tax fraudsters. Unfortunately, Denmark is not the tax fool that we often believe. The Danish rules for limited companies make it possible to use Denmark for tax purposes today. It has been found that Danish limited companies are used for extensive hiding of black money and tax evasion by foreign so-called investors of a more or less inconvenient nature. Unfortunately, there are also banks in the spotlight for actively contributing to tax evasion, and over the last few days we have seen examples of a bank that is heavily suspected of contributing not only to tax evasion but also to money laundering. Experts estimate that Denmark is missing between 10 and 29 billion annually. kr. in the absence of tax revenue because huge amounts are stored away by both private and companies. We shouldn't put up with that. Where there are grey areas, the rules need to be clarified. Where there are tax gaps, they must be closed down and where there are illegals, there must be sufficient resources for investigation and judicial review. This is where we cannot avoid more resources for SKAT. It is not only billions for welfare that the community is missing out on. That is the obvious injustice that many people feel. Why do I have to pay taxes on my salary when the richest get away with hiding their fortunes? Moral support for our tax-financed welfare society is at risk and, at worst, it is therefore our social model that is at risk. The government is calling for good ideas, and I am happy to resubmit SF's proposals, which neither the Left nor, for that matter, many other parties of the Folketing would vote in favour, but I am very pleased that we have this discussion today and that there are also several parties that come up with concrete proposals. In spite of the sincerity that I believe the Minister of Taxation has to deal with this problem, I think there is a lack of concrete initiatives. It is true that it is in the OECD, the G20 and the European Commission, etc. that the long, tough features can be taken, but there are also always some who have to take the lead, some who have to show the way, so that we certainly should not put land ourselves into ways of cheating taxes, and Denmark could do much more. Some of the proposals made by the SF are, after all, a kind of reverse free course, where there will be stricter penalties for tax evasion from 1 January next year, but also a boycott of banks, accountants and other advisors who actively contribute to evasion, because our money, the taxpayers' money, should not go to the companies that cheat. The last thing I want to say is that I am actually pleased that we have such a broad text of adoption, which is supported by all the parties of the Folketing except the Liberal Alliance, and I also have the hope that, as soon as it is possible, the Minister will call us to discussions because, and this is really my final point, whether you are blue or green or red, it should not be accepted, and it was really my appeal to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, that someone can cheat the community. Then we must politically take those battles about whether the tax should be high or low or where it should lie. It is unsolidarous, but also unbridled, to accept the kind of distortion of competition that happens when some cheat.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511142543	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments, and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511142554	The word tax havens alone gives such relatively bad associations about greedy capitalists who move billions of dollars away from the community and cheat us all. So it's hard to argue that you shouldn't be after people who use tax havens and cheat the community. But it is also symptomatic of a very topical discussion on several fronts. We live in a more global world where money can be moved faster, simpler and without major problems. And the other dimension is, of course, that in some parties there is such a kind of fata morgana or a fantasy about how many billions of dollars this is about and how much richer the community could be if we just all paid something more in taxes in Denmark. There is, of course, the fact that we live in the world's least corrupt country, we have a very transparent system, and we are constantly working towards a more effective equation and greater international cooperation. But we can see from the Panama papers and other current cases that in Denmark too there are companies and people, fortunately not many who speculate about moving money to countries where you do not pay taxes as in Denmark, even if the income is earned in Denmark. Because, of course, you also have to have the dimension of the fact that in a global society it is perfectly legal to move money out of Denmark. You just have to remember to pay the tax in Denmark. After all, we are interested in the fact that there are also activities and investments in other countries that can also generate innovation and productivity at home. Therefore, care should be taken not to label all investments in other countries as tax havens. We believe that more international action is needed in relation to the problem and that the European Union is stepping up its efforts. We support the Government's efforts to help the EU also have a unified and more effective enforcement of the rules. It is international that something can be done about this problem, it is difficult for a country like Denmark to be alone in a dialogue with, for example, Panama. Of course, the tax authorities at home must also focus on discovering and exposing potential tax scammers and preventing them from moving money out of Denmark. In this context, we think that it would be a good idea to introduce a temporary amnesty system, which would allow people to join us, just like using resources for the really bad guys. Of course, you will pay the money you owe and you will also pay a fine. But on the other hand, more people come in and pay the taxes they now owe. This means that the tax authorities can concentrate on the right bath guys and get more of them into the fold. It's a system that works. We can see in Sweden how successful it has been. Of course, there may also be an argument that cheating is bad morale to say that if you have cheated, you can just sneak in through the back door and pay the money. I think that is a relevant discussion. But the most relevant thing is to look at how to get most possible money into the treasury and avoid cheating in the future. As Minister of Justice, I used the amnesty scheme myself and gave free passage to gang members and bikers and others so that they could deliver their weapons. And a lot of weapons were handed in, which meant that a lot of shooting was avoided on the streets. Was it so wrong to give the gang members the opportunity to have amnesty? You could discuss that, but the guns came in with the police, and you avoided shooting on the streets. In this way, I think we can draw a parallel to a possible tax amnesty. We get the money in the box and we sort of put it into it so that the tax authorities don't have to worry about pursuing it in the future. Conservatives support the proposal for adoption made by the Danish People's Party rapporteur from up here. Effective action is important both internationally and in Denmark, and we await the studies that are available and look forward to the negotiations on the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511143020	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511143023	Thank you. I appreciate the comparison, perhaps not entirely intended by the rapporteur, of gangs and bikers and tax scammers. It can be said that they have at least the same thing in common that there is organized financial crime. I also remember well when the rapporteur was a minister and there was free passage, and it worked very well. The problem is here, we've had free passage. It didn't produce much results. If we do this again, does the rapporteur not think that we are sending a signal to people that SKAT is coming for them and where there is no free passage if they have cheated on taxes out of relatively small amounts, while here, where it is millions and perhaps billions, you can get free passage, in other words, that the big fish can escape while people with ordinary incomes are both punished and fined?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511143129	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511143130	That is a very, very relevant point made by the rapporteur. I have, of course, been through the same considerations. I just think that, as a society, we should look at what is best for society from such an analysis of the net. And net best for society must be to say that yes, we should, of course, pursue these people to the end of the world and try to get the money from them, but if the real world is that you don't get the money from them and you can't expose them, then everything else would be better to say: let's get them in and stop spending more effort on them. Give them a fine, let them pay the tax they have to pay, and then we will have better systems and hopefully better international cooperation so that it does not happen again. And we can see that Sweden is succeeding. In Sweden, we have succeeded. A very large amount of money is being brought in, and many more people are going to sign up under the tabs and will also be registered in the future, so they will pay taxes in the future. And I think this is the best example of how it can be done with a longer course, where you get more money in the box, and society in this way makes a net profit of making a kind of free passage.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511143229	Thank you. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511143232	In Sweden, it was also, it might be said, a slightly soft model. There were practically no consequences. But let's just leave it alone. In fact, I understand the rapporteur's reasoning. What do we get the most out of? I just think that this is not just about these between 10 and 20 billion, as many people have at least estimated it to be; it is not just about the money that we could spend on different things according to political taste: tax reliefs or an increase in welfare or whatever it may be. I also think that the big problem here is that the tax morality in this country is slipping away. This is, of course, a problem for all of us, regardless of their political colour, so it is also the signal we send to the citizens that I am worried about. Does the rapporteur understand my point?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511143322	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511143324	Indeed, I think that is a very good argument, because that legitimacy is currently under pressure when there are all the problems that have been and have been in the SKAT. It may be that this may be the rock in the load that helps make it tip. It may be. Because then you can see that the big cheats are allowed to walk free. On the other hand, I think that we should constantly assess what is best for Denmark. I think that when you look at Sweden, where you have got more people to pay taxes in the future too, and that you do not need to spend any effort on them, they will have a situation where they can use the strength of the real criminals and ensure international cooperation that will work. So I'm still mostly on the wagon that says that we have to implement a tax amnesty scheme, which is not free to rent, because they also have to pay a fine and pay their taxes, but that would benefit Danish society. However, these are some pertinent considerations that the rapporteur makes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511143414	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511143429	Thank you for the debate that has been going on. First of all, I welcome the fact that what I said in my statement proved true, namely that there is no one in the Folketing who does not want to fight illegal tax evasion. Of course, there has been an exchange of views between some parties, but I do not actually hear what the Liberal Alliance rapporteur has said, as an expression of the Liberal Alliance's desire to legitimise tax evasion or anything else. You just have to be a little more careful to find out what is in the Panama paper before you choose to act politically, and that is a fair political difference between having. On the other hand, I welcome the fact that there is a very broad proposal for adoption by a very broad group of parties and, as I think the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party pointed out, we have already decided to set up before this request a Tax Law Council to look at the scope of tax havens and see if there are any rules that can be better done and that we are working actively in the OECD to limit the use of tax havens. And I would also like to make that statement: if we now have some more knowledge, and when the FSA's statement is available, we will have some political discussions and negotiations under the auspices of both the Minister for Taxation and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Growth. As I said, this is because we have a common agenda. I would also like to say if I have to answer the questions from the Radical Left there I think there were at least some direct questions and I was also asked about it by the Enhedslisten and also by the Social Democrat rapporteur, namely the question of resources, that I do not exclude the provision of additional resources to SKAT. I am simply saying in all silence that one of the areas which has actually been prioritised as a result of an active political decision under the previous government is the tax havens area, and that is why 50 million have been set aside. kr. As part of the tax havens package led by the previous government. It's sitting there, I think it's 21 years' work at the moment in SKAT and working with tax havens. Those are the people who, among other things, are... Have a look at the Panamanian papers that have been published. That is why the question is this: is there a need at this stage to add additional resources, or is it a question we need to look at when we know more about what is in the Panama papers and what is in the area? There I am willing to look at it, but I also encourage a bit of temper. Perhaps we should let the control project that has been and has been upgraded, run, and then, when we have, what to say, take that discussion more knowledge of whether those resources are not sufficient. What the SKAT tells me is that you think you are well equipped, among other things. as a result of this extra boost under the previous government, to deal with the situation. Then there is the question of what we are doing within the European Union. That is a fair and legitimate question. I have said that I do not think we should make special rules in Denmark and in the Danish Parliament, but that we are solving this international foreign problem through international cooperation and through foreign policy, EU policy, and then it is relevant to ask: will the government press for it? And there's the answer: Yes, we will. Now I am not the tax minister who jumps on the table down there in Brussels or banks in the table down in Brussels. It comes down to the fact that the construction we have in Denmark, where you have a tax minister, is not one that you have in many other EU countries, and I am sorry about that. I would urge other countries to have a tax minister, because then there is more focus on the revenue side, but they have not, and that is why it is under the auspices of the Finance Minister, some of these things are going on, and when it comes to country reporting, which several people have asked about, it is under the auspices of the Minister for Business and Growth. However, this does not change the fact that the government actively supports the Commission's action against tax havens. When we have had a reservation about country reporting and the proposal that the Commission has made, it is about the fact that, as a government, we are concerned that the proposal does not go beyond what is necessary, so that business sensitive information is not made public, so that the majority of companies that pay the tax they should not be burdened unnecessarily to the detriment of competitiveness. That is why, as I have said, we have replied and that is the answer to Mr Beazley's question. Rune Lund said we're in a think box.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511143859	Thank you. Then there are some brief comments. Sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511143903	This is the discussion about the international track and what the government is actually doing on behalf of Denmark in the international work of the EU and the OECD, to which I would like to ask. For the Minister's response to the many proposals we have made has been that the most important thing is the international track that makes sense. I just think we have the benefit of seeing it. The Minister also says that we have gone into a think box, but right now, as I understand it, there are technical negotiations at official level about where it might end when the Council of Ministers has to take a position on the Commission's proposal. Also under the second auspices of the OECD, there are Danish officials who are sent to participate in the events that are there. Something is happening on behalf of Denmark. And what are the instructions for them? So, in what way is Denmark currently acting in the technical negotiations that are there? For example, does Denmark propose that the limit on when to make country-by-country accounts should be reduced, so that more companies are required to publish these things, so that the correct taxation can be ensured, or does Denmark not?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511144012	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511144014	Well, we do a lot of things. As I mentioned in my reply, we support this letter from five of the EU's finance ministers for increased exchange of information, which we warmly support. We have certainly accepted the Commission's tax havens package. We have taken it well, then, that there are other parties that do not agree with us, not even with the entire parliamentary basis of the government, but with an EU blacklist; that is a good idea. We are pushing for this, and we are pushing for a definition of what tax havens really are in the European Union. And the government's starting point is that it is more important to have a definition than to fight among EU countries for months and years about what the definition should be. But it is not Denmark that is foot-timing; it is a number of other countries. Then, of course, there is the question of OECD and country-by-country reporting. There we just have the starting point that those rules are some that have just entered into force. And should we not start by allowing these rules to enter into force and have them implemented before the immediate danger of changing the border? But having said that, I think it will come all by itself. When you have a system that works, with a limit of 750 million. euro, that border will move down if it turns out to be an effective tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511144128	Thank you. Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511144130	Unfortunately, I think it is too much to hope that there are quite a lot of things to do when it comes to tax havens and the rather big interests that are at stake here. In other words, the fact that country-by-country accounts are on the way at all is something relatively new, and that comes from political pressure. And the fact that the limit on who should be reported lies where it does is also the result of a political decision. So instead of just waiting for the Commission to come up with a proposal and then we raise our hand when someone is asked whether someone likes it, then you have to be in the shoes and fight with the countries that we know are always reluctant. So the answer to the question does not really exist. Is Denmark now working in the technical negotiations to reduce the limit, to include more countries, or not? I take that as a no, but can the Minister not be quite clear?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511144219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511144221	Well, it's under the responsibility of the Minister of Industry and Growth, so sir. Jesper Petersen will have to ask the Minister for Business and Growth if he wants answers to what is going on in the TWG. I can say on behalf of the government that we are pleased with country reporting. We think it is sensible for us to have country-by-country reporting and we think it is sensible to set the limit of 750 million. euro. As a tax minister, I believe that this border will move downwards, but we also have just the view that where Denmark has implemented the rules, there are a number of countries that do not. So it is, after all, a question of whether we should work for a technical paper exercise in the European Union to set the limit or whether we should work for the countries to implement the rules that we have already adopted as soon as possible? And that's where we choose to start with the last one.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511144303	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511144307	Now comes the FSA with its investigation, and we've talked about it in the past, among other things. In the Committee on Taxation, too, it is a study which will come before the summer. The proposal for adoption here says that when that study comes, there will be some political discussions for negotiation. That's really good. After all, the study consists of the fact that the FSA has sent a number of banks some questions, and then my question is to the tax minister: if the answers that come back give only a partial insight into what is going on, what will be the tax minister's attitude to going further and having a major study or coal digging of what is actually going on in the banks? Because you are extremely provocative when, for example, a month ago you were in the Landstingshall. could hear a bank like Nordea say that everything that happened was something that happened before 2009 and that now it doesn't happen anymore. But then a story came here two days ago in connection with the Panama papers being published that Nordea has supposedly contributed to laundering money from rich Russians. This gives the impression that something more needs to be done, that there is more that we need to shed light on here. What is the tax minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511144420	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511144422	It is that the authorities must shoulder their authority's responsibilities, and it is, of course, SKAT and the FSA here. When there is something from the FSA and that is what the Minister for Business and Growth has said that hopefully before the summer break, and I think that is right, then we have to deal with it. If the material in question is not adequate, further options must be considered. At least I'll keep the door open for that as the tax minister. I want these things to come out. I do not understand, and I would like to say this very clearly: the people and the greed behind the fact that you do not want to pay your taxes in Denmark, but try with all sorts of games to save money in tax havens and elsewhere. I don't understand the greed behind it, and I don't understand the banks and advisors who help with it and operate in this grey area. I do not see the purpose of it at all, and I take it personally, as well as the tax minister. That is why it is a joint project to have it examined in depth and acted upon. I just don't think and I emphasise the word "the problem" is our national legislation. It's really good in Denmark, because we've done quite a lot. It may be the enforcement of it and the competences available to some authorities. This is, of course, one of the issues that can be raised in the forthcoming discussions and negotiations that we will have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511144529	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511144532	Then I would like to thank you for indicating that we can go further if there is only a partial insight into what is going on. At any rate, I feel that, as legislator, we have a very great need to know what is really going on, so that we do not just depend on some banks coming when something happens and say to us: we promise penance and recovery, it will not happen again, and everything that happened was something that happened in the old days. Then it'll be a month, and then we'll just see that it goes on like it's always been. Then you will be extremely frustrated, and then we will have to get some more information about what is going on, what exactly is going on and what we can do to get rid of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511144612	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511144614	We will not disagree on that. Unlike Mr. However, I also recognise Rune Lund that something is actually happening. If you look at how many reports of money laundering from the banks to the authorities have been, it appears that there has been a very, very sharp increase, especially in recent years, and that is because this is the focus of the banks, and because, as we also heard from the hearing held by the Parliamentary Committee on Taxation and for which I would like to commend the Committee on Taxation and the Danish Parliament, we recognise that there have been some things that were not as they should be. It must then be the responsible authorities, first of all the FSA and then the SKAT, who are going to investigate it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511144648	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511144650	Thank you. The Minister mentioned here that work on blacklisting should be started under EU auspices and also the definitions. I agree with the Minister, but there are also some problems in that. Because depending on what tax havens you use, there will be a great many European countries that will fall under it. I do not think I insult anyone by saying Holland, England to some extent, of course Luxembourg. Denmark, too, wanted to be included in this with the limited companies I have mentioned. But let's not discuss it. After all, there is the challenge of looking outside the European Union and pointing the finger at Panama and all sorts of others, but there will not be a European list drawn up by the European Union itself. I hope the Minister will agree with me on this point, which seems politically unrealistic. That is why the Commission has tried to push it away by calling on the Member States in 2012 to start their own work. Is this something that the Minister could consider, that is to say, to set this work in motion in Denmark alongside the other?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511144805	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511144807	I can say so much that one can also be criticised, but sometimes it is a little difficult to do anything. Some people are always a little unhappy. Maybe that's the way it is. However, as part of the tax havens package adopted by the previous government, some money was set aside for a research project on what tax havens really are. I think that is an excellent idea. It is, I believe, a research project at Aalborg University. There is probably a need to do some research into some of the legal things, and Denmark then makes an effort. We can share that project with others when it's done. It is a problem in the European Union that there has so far been no agreement on the definition of a tax haven. There are some who believe that countries with no or low taxes fall under that definition and there is no international standard for it. So we need to solve that question. There the government takes that view, it is more important that we find a definition quickly than that we fight for months or years to find a definition. Because we need to find a definition, and then we can start blacklisting and a number of other things. But to be perfectly honest, it is not Denmark, or indeed the other Nordic countries, that is the problem here. These are a number of other countries within the EU and under the auspices of the OECD. We must recognize and relate to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511144915	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511144917	Thank you. As Commissioner for Competition, Margrethe Vestager has said many things, including: Something with a swearing word that I will not repeat in the Chamber. I also think that the President would be angry if I did so. But I would say that they were very, very angry in the Commission about what had happened with Panama and so on. And then she said what I have not actually heard her say before, which I thought was very interesting, although it should be common sense: one should pay tax on the money where it is earned. Does the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511144951	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511144954	I may have political disagreements with Mrs Margrethe Vestager's party, but I have great confidence because it is a Dane who sits at that post and also because it is Mrs Margrethe Vestager. I think this is beneficial, both for Denmark and for the European Union and for this agenda. This is also illustrated by the broad consensus here in the Danish Parliament today. Then I would like to say that yes, I recognise and support the principle that you have to pay your taxes where you earn the money. It's whether you're a citizen or a company.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511145027	That's right. Mrs Margrethe Vestager, that is what it says. Sir. Martin Lidegaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511145035	Thank you. That is not the most convincing answer I have received from the Minister of Taxation here. I understand that the countries that want the 750 million threshold are not being supported here and now. The euro will be put down, but perhaps we will do so later. Okay, you might as well man up to mean it now. The second question is whether, as a group, a very, very large group, you have to explain your activities in all the countries you are active. Does the government at least support that? And then perhaps just as one last thing: maybe it was an idea, now that it has succeeded in making such a broad decision on home affairs that the government called, so you were sure you had a broad mandate in the Folketing for your EU position in this area. This is obviously something another minister should be involved in, but we would certainly like to ask for it, because we think it is important to have a strong Danish voice in these questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511145132	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511145134	That last point I fully agree with, sir. Martin Lidegaard in. The country-by-country reporting falls within the competence of the Minister for Business and Growth, and the Minister for Business and Growth must be given a mandate in the Parliament's European Committee, and there the Folketing has the opportunity to set an agenda and give a negotiating mandate, and I would urge the Folketing to use that. When the government has replied that we want to consider the Commission's proposal, it has been in relation to the concerns I expressed, in other words, that something that has not been thought through is being done. It is not because I see any opposition in the government to looking at whether we could lower the limit, but I also have the starting point that we have now adopted these country-by-country reporting rules, where the limit is 750 million. euros, so maybe we should start by letting it work. And if it turns out to be a success, it is an easier political matter to lower the limit if it is an effective tool. I think that is just the easiest way to achieve what both the questioner and the government want.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511145242	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511145244	I understand that this is a political debate and also a politically difficult debate within the European Union, but it is usually a good thing if you have prepared yourself well and have a clear position before you enter that debate. I am not asking for Denmark to be able to dictate the entire policy of the European Union, but one might well demand that in this area, which costs Denmark so many billions of dollars, and which there is so broad agreement that Denmark has a fairly decent society and every interest in raising international standards, the government should not sit around in perhaps, perhaps not and think box and all that. It went in quite clearly and supported the clearest and most consistent line, which is also the Commission's line in Brussels. I hope that this will be considered positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511145333	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511145335	I can say that we support country-by-country reporting, we have implemented legislation here in the Folketing, and there was a broad consensus. So I think it's gonna end well, both for the government, sir. Martin Lidegaard and the common cause here in the Danish Parliament to limit illegal tax evasion and tax havens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511145353	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511145355	Thank you. Now I heard that the Minister, both at the beginning and here at the end, once again stated that there is not so much we can do at home. You're kind of happy. I have heard the Minister in other places being open to the proposal. I don't really understand that restraint. In other words, on the part of the Social Democrats, we used 1 May to make four headlines on concrete things that we could do nationally with intensive government efforts. To strengthen the Project Skattely was one of the projects we started. Another was more severe consequences for tax evasion, i.e. more severe penalties for tax evasion; advisory responsibility, i.e. to make it easier to punish advisers, etc.; better access to evidence against tax fraud; an information system to ensure that banks also provide information on transactions to tax havens. In a fourth hat we proposed better double taxation agreements, i.e. a service review of all double taxation agreements. These are quite specific proposals which it would be exciting to hear if the tax minister could not support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511145501	Here you go, the treasure minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511145503	I do not think I can deal with all these questions in my reply time, which is now 57 seconds, but I can say yes to one title on cooperation, certainly yes to Nordic cooperation. This is something the government has worked on, just as the previous government worked on it when the author's party was in government and when the author's party colleague was tax minister. With regard to the liability of advisors, we must be able to be punished as an advisor if we are to advise on illegal tax evasion. That can already be done today, and the penalty is actually quite high, but the problem is to lift a burden of proof, and the Socialists do not point to that, nor does Mrs Mette Frederiksen in her speech, in other words how we can solve the problem of lifting a burden of proof. But I am happy to listen to good suggestions in this regard. Can we exchange information more widely between countries? That is also one of the proposals, and we also welcome that. Can we work together more closely with the authorities? Certainly, I'd like to consider that. So all those things are some that the government works with and would like to work with. However, I have not heard any such super-concrete proposals that the Socialists would like me to implement as tax minister either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511145622	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511145624	But then I have to hand over the paper here to the tax minister, because it is actually full of very concrete proposals, for example. on the allocation of more resources to SKAT this year. In relation to the liability of advisors, it may well be that advising on what is illegal and what is going on in this respect does not end up leading to a punishment, but we can ensure that we have clearer rules on it, that is to say the advice itself. We can introduce a liability claim in accordance with the principle of proportionality if a company provides advice that leads to tax evasion, etc. etc. So there's actually enough to get to grips with. And I am glad to see that the Minister is willing to do something at national level. So let's get started right away, and then this investigation of the Panama case can go in parallel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511145708	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511145710	Thank you. But it is already illegal to help customers with tax evasion. The Penal Code is clear, and the penalty is eight years old. The problem, then, is that not so many people have been convicted of it, and that is because it can be difficult to lift a burden of proof. With regard to the question, which is also a concrete proposal from the Socialists, of whether you have a collective responsibility as a bank for some of these things, there is also a fairly clear case law from the Supreme Court that meets what is demanded. In relation to double taxation agreements and their review, Denmark does not enter into double taxation agreements with zero tax jurisdictions, i.e.: the countries to be expected to come on such a blacklist from the European Union. And that is because we are the dork in the European Union and under the auspices of the OECD. And when you have done a great deal for many years, you are well equipped, but then the need to do more at national level is also less.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511145806	Thank you, Minister. Then I give the floor to Mr. Jesper Petersen, but it has to be very brief, because only two hours have been allocated to the question and it is approaching 3 p.m. so it will be just as a very short conclusion as rapporteur for the questioners. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511145819	Thank you. Yeah, that's exactly the point. Now that we took the initiative on this urgent question, I would just like to say that, despite the fact that I can hear that we still disagree on some things in this area, we also welcome the fact that we have now succeeded in committing each other to discussing and negotiating actions in this area. We will hardly agree on all the measures that are being put on the table. I can hear that from the discussion here, but I think it would be completely untenable if we on top of the strong debate that has been, on top of the massive leak that has been, just talk out in the open space and nothing happens. So we must commit ourselves to this not only in the text that has been adopted today, but also in real action, when one day we come around a negotiating table on the basis of the proposal for adoption that has been adopted. So also from us: thank you for the debate and for the fact that we can look forward to negotiating on action in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511145911	Thank you. There are no further comments, and I can see that the list of speakers has then been exhausted. As there are no more on the list of speakers, this item is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Thursday 12 May 2016. We have agreed that we will proceed with the next item on the agenda at 1 p.m. 15.00, so it's very soon. Until then, there is a break, and I shall now suspend the sitting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511150012	At 1:00 a.m. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the report (Doc. I have to inform you that those of Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) under No. Questions to the Minister for the Environment and Food (Question No 14 and 15) S 1095 and No S 1096) is deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. The first question is to the Minister for Finance, and this has been asked by Mrs Paulin from the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511150050	The questioner now reads his question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511150053	Yeah. Does the Minister agree with the Minister for Employment that the prerequisites of the government's convergence programme, as regards the relations of refugees with the labour market, are miles away from reality and the expression of "talgymnastics," as stated in the article "Minister sours doubts about Hjort's target for refugees" in the newspaper Politiken on 5 May 2016?"
ParlaMint-DK_20160511150112	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511150114	Calculations in the Convergence Programme 2016 have given rise to misunderstandings about the impact on public finances of the influx of refugees and migrants in the longer term. In some places, there has been a growing perception that refugees benefit public finances in the longer term. That is not correct. Let me clarify the proper context of the matter, but let me first say that there is, of course, uncertainty about the impact of the influx of refugees. I mean, that's what we're gonna do. depend on the future number of asylum seekers and their level of employment. So the estimates I'm talking about here are based on a number of assumptions. The influx of refugees is in isolation a burden on fiscal sustainability. The lasting impact of the influx of refugees corresponds to an additional cost of approx. 3 billion kr. A year in the future. This is true if it is assumed that the cost of public service for the new population will be just over 6 billion. kr. towards 2020 on the basis of a mechanical calculation, the so-called demographic move. However, in the longer term, the employment rate among newcomers and family members is assumed to be improved compared to 2020. Therefore, the lasting impact of the influx of refugees is less than the 6 billion. kr. corresponding to an additional cost of approx. 3 billion kr. A year in the future. However, when the misunderstanding can arise, this is due to the fact that fiscal policy towards 2020 is organised on the basis of expenditure ceilings and the objective of balance by 2020. After all, we in the Danish Parliament have adopted a budget law, according to which only the expenditure that is available can be planned. In other words, when the demographic feature of public service expenditure is dealt with within the given expenditure ceilings, it may appear that the influx of refugees does not have expenditure policy implications until 2020. However, it is simply to ignore the fact that the flow of refugees, particularly in the years to come, is pushing public finances. Essentially, the additional cost depends on how successful we are overall in dealing with the challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511150342	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511150344	After all, the Minister for Finance said to Politiken on 4 May that immigrants and their descendants could have a positive effect on public finances in the long term. But it is also true that the Ministry of Finance has subsequently drawn ashore, and it is now felt instead that the refugees will increase the cost of 3 billion. kr. Can the Minister of Finance understand that ordinary people may find it difficult to find out what to believe? After all, the Minister for Employment has called the Treasury's methods of calculating talgymnastics, and I agree with him on that. I think this helps to confuse the population and it gives a little picture that the government's figures depend on what fits into the political agenda in one day, i.e. one plus one day and one minus the other day. I understand that the reason why one came up with a plus in the first place was that the cost of the 6 billion had been disregarded. kr. In addition, we have a hypothetical employment rate for the descendants of the refugees, which can at best be described as optimistic and, at worst, as naive, and we can only be concerned about the other conditions of the convergence programme when the figures are so messed up. But what does the Minister think here today? Do the refugees give you a plus or a minus? And does the Minister think that the cost of school and health is relevant when it comes to dealing with this kind of thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511150503	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511150505	The convergence programme is based on the fact that the employment rate for refugees and descendants gradually increases with the length of stay in Denmark, but it should be stressed that the employment rate is assumed to rise from a very low level. Refugees and family members are estimated to have an employment rate of just 30%. after 3 years stay in Denmark. It goes without saying that we are far from a situation where refugees and family members have an employment rate that is just like the employment rate of the Danes. In the longer term, the calculations are based on the fact that the employment rate gradually increases with residence time in Denmark and that the employment rate will only be at the level of Danes after two generations. It is based on the standard assumptions made by the Ministry of Finance for the long-term projections.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511150606	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511150606-2	The Minister for Employment also said to Politiken on 5 May: "There is no positive effect in bringing people here who are engulfed by public support. It's a disaster. Does the Minister of Finance agree with that interpretation and does the Minister of Finance consider it realistic that the government achieves the objective of significantly strengthening the refugee employment rate when the Minister for Employment, responsible for the area, seems to think that this is not possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511150632	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511150635	It can be said that the additional expenditure depends essentially on how successful we are overall in dealing with the challenge. In the opinion of the government, we can and must take action on three fronts. Firstly, we must reduce the actual flow to Denmark. Secondly, we must deal with and reduce the pressure on public expenditure from the influx. Thirdly, and this is quite crucial, we must increase the employment of refugees and family members living in this country. That was among other things. In order to increase the employment rate, we conducted the bipartite discussions with the social partners, which ended in March.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511150721	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511150722	But has the Minister talked to the Minister for Employment about these figures over the last few days and can the Minister guarantee that there is agreement within the government on what figures are applicable and that the conditions are valid? It is hard to believe that the government can achieve its objectives in the field of integration if the Minister for Finance and Employment do not agree on the conditions and what is actually possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511150745	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511150746	I can reassure the questioner that the Minister for Employment and the Minister for Finance are in complete agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511150753	Thank you very much both to the Minister and to the questioner for today's work. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 2 which is for the Minister for Transport and Building, and the questioner is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511150807	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511150814	Thank you. I would like to know whether the Minister will ensure that more upper secondary education, such as: Eux gets the opportunity to drive student driving already this summer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511150817	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511150820	Thank you for the question. I can inform you that my ministry has been working for some time to find a solution with regard to the extension of the student driving scheme, which at the same time takes due account of road safety. It needs to get right into it so that we are sure that it is a proposal that works well and I can say that the work is done and that I think we have actually found a very good solution. We make some completely new rules that will come into force on 1 June 2016, which means that all the young people who complete a youth education of at least 2 years' duration can come out and celebrate with a festive exam drive this summer, including the Euxs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511150857	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511150859	That's a really, really nice answer, and we've been waiting for that. I have many inquiries from the young students out there who have followed the discussion, we had back in February, when the Minister also said that he was positive, and I know that they have made agreements with road hauliers who can drive them. Does the commitment I now have from the Minister mean that I can report back to them and say that they can count on them to be able to drive a student driving when we get to June and they finish their studies? And if so, what will happen? Do they need to do something to ensure that their hauliers are now given the right authorisation, or how will the procedure be to ensure that? 'Cause this is gonna have to go a little fast.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511150941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511150943	Well, what you can say briefly is that the road hauliers who are about to drive know. They know they have to contact and get permission from the police, but that's just how it usually works. So it is exactly the same model, and it also has something to do with how fast you have to drive on roads and in urban traffic etc. But they're just gonna have to make enquiries, and then they're gonna run like they've done before. Now it is just everyone who has been in the exams on the basis, as I said here, of the two years that can be allowed to do so, and not just students.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151013	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151014	It's only really pleasing. I would still like some clarification to be made. The Minister says that work has just been completed and that this will enter into force on 1 June. I don't hear it as if something was sent out to the police today. So again, I'm going to say that the truckers know where to ask, but right now they're getting no. So when will they be able to ask again and get a yes? It could be really nice just to get a very clear confirmation of when it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151045	I said just now that it will enter into force on 1 June 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151048	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151051	Is it to be understood that it is possible to calculate this? I have several people who write to me, and I have to write to them when I have had this discussion with the Minister. What are they gonna tell their truckers? They must tell their hauliers that the Minister has said today that it will enter into force on 1 June and that they can calculate on obtaining the authorisation. But can they seek it, because there is probably also the fact that the police have to make some assessments in relation to the specific application? Therefore, it is a little important that they do not have to search for 1 June, because then it will be a little late. So will they be able to search today, and is that information out at the police so that they actually know that it can be searched now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151131	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151133	It's a good rule for a minister to answer what he's dealing with. I have to make the rules, the Minister of Justice and the police need to figure out how to deal with this. But I can't take a different view than I do. They do what they usually do, because we have just made sure that the scheme is extended, and there are, of course, some rules on how to drive, but it's all in there. It is also on our website, but on the question of when the police do what, you have to contact the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151200	Thank you to the questioner. We are ready for Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 3 which is also for the Minister for Transport and Building, and that is what Mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy. He'll be ready to read it in a minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151213	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151215	Thank you, President. I have to read my question: will the Minister extend the national bicycle pool, given that the Minister has just had the US Transport Minister on a bicycle ride in Copenhagen, and now that the campaign • We are cycling to work again this year seems to be a success?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151231	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151233	Well, I think it's a really good idea to create a pool of bicycles, which I did last time I was a minister, and I'm glad that Mr. Rasmus Prehn will follow that, so thank you for the question. Well, it's not been so many months since Mr. Knox... Rasmus Prehn and I were here discussing the bicycle pool, and I must apologise in advance if what I think now will seem a little familiar, because some of that is something I repeat. However, as I have already pointed out, I believe that the national bicycle pool has certainly had an impact on the promotion of cycling in Denmark. There has been a great deal of interest in the pool, which we set aside in 2009 for 1 billion. kr. to an interest which, of course, has meant that over 380 projects have received funds from the pool. Many projects are still under way and, as can be seen from the mid-term review of the bicycle pool from the turn of the year, more than 220 projects have not yet been completed and evaluated. But it is also clear that with the bicycle pool we have demonstrated that we are helping to promote cycling. Having said that, I also think it is important to emphasise that this is a joint task. Most cycling takes place on municipal roads, and this also means that the municipalities themselves have a task to solve. It is, of course, too early to decide now on an extension of the national bicycle pool. We must first resolve the investment challenge, that is, that more investment has been decided than there is scope for, and we in the government have called for discussions on this later this week, and then we will see what comes of it. As you know, when the opportunity is again there to allocate funds to new projects, the priority of the funds will be something I will discuss with the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151402	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151403	Thank you very much to the Minister for coming here and answering my question. I also think you sense a more upbeat and fresh minister than usual, and it may be that it is the bike ride with the American Transport Minister, Anthony Foxx, who has set his tracks, because we have read in the media that if there is something good for health, it is cycling in everyday life. I saw the other day in the newspaper the headline • Take the bike and drop you 11 kg in one year • • if you ride to everyday life. It is good for cardiovascular diseases, it is good for the prevention of various other diseases, and it is also good for climate, environment and tribulation. So the fact that we are cycling is something tremendously positive. I think it should also be seen in the light that so many politicians from elsewhere in the world travel to Denmark to see what we can do here. For the story of the bicycle pool is quite awesome, because even though Denmark has been known to be a cycling country for many, many years, a long time, we had a period of fewer bicycle rides. There was more prosperity, there were more cars, and perhaps more both men and women had a long way to go, and therefore fewer people cycled. We could also see among schoolchildren that there was a falling trend. When we saw in 2009 widely in the Danish Parliament made this bicycle pool, we actually had this negative development reversed, so more people now choose to take the bike for life and health, but also for climate, environment and everything else. So it's positive. When I take up the question again, because it is true that I have taken it up before, because we Social Democrats are eager to get started on this, it is of course because we want to be sure that when we start distributing these funds, the Left is also helping to set aside money for it. So I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister can give a hand in this today that when we sit together in the green conciliation circle, the Left will also help to set aside money for a bicycle pool, which is, of course, a co-financing pool, which the municipalities have to pay their share of, so we promise in groups according to good Danish tradition.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151613	Well, now it was under the former VK government in 2009 that we placed the money, and I am positive about cycling, but I also have to say that I have learned the lesson of how wise it is to do something with your rapporteur and conciliation group that you first discuss it with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151630	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151632	Of course, on the part of the Socialist Group, we respect the humility shown by the Minister. After all, it is wise to listen to what other rapporteurs say. When it is that we need a settlement, there are many of us who have to agree. But couldn't the Minister just lift a chunk of what the Left's position is in this? Because time and again we have heard the Left say that it is now the turn of the cars. And I suppose we can agree that there are many avenues in which we want to invest and that there are many important projects out there, the port tunnel in Copenhagen, the extension of E45 and all sorts of other important projects. But will the Left not say here today that when this issue of bicycle pool comes up, the Left will be positive?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151711	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151713	Now I would say, with a flash in my eye, that I also believe that many people are concerned about a new Limfjord connection, and that will be enough for cars. So we have to say to each other that there will be many wishes. I am very much in favour of this bike thing, and I would also like to say that one of the first things I did with Mr. Rasmus Prehn, for example, was that we got this done. On Bornholm, a different subsidy rate was created so that we could make better use of the money. So we're positive about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151740	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151741	I would like to acknowledge the positive attitude of the Minister here. This looks good in relation to the negotiations we need to have. And since we are talking about a third Limfjord connection, which is also very close to my heart, we are working very hard for this in North Jutland, I would like to say that we will actually have a new third Limfjord connection before it goes to roads, because the cycle path on the railway bridge will be opened before it is opened. So it is not the bicycle pool that we have had in the green conciliation circle, but it is the one in the agreement on better and cheaper public transport. Can the Minister tell us what the Minister intends to do in the area where money has also been allocated to bicycles? Is this a place the Minister could imagine finding money for even more cycling?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151817	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151820	No, I can't. There we will await the conciliation negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151825	The question is closed. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 4 with the same crew, namely the Minister of Transport and Mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151831	Sir. Rasmus Prehn for reading the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151833	Thank you very much, President. Does the Minister not consider that it is high time to clarify the future purchase of equipment by the Train Fund DK and DSB when DSB itself states that the many delays experienced by passengers on DSB's services are currently occurring, among other things. is it due to challenges with the train equipment?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151853	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511151856	Yes, but first of all, I'd like to sign off on Mr. Rasmus Prehn believes there is a need for clarification of the Train Fund DK, since there is no money to implement all the projects in the Train Fund DK. Because it is the case that 15.5 billion is missing. kr. in the Train Fund DK, as the Minister for Finance pointed out only this weekend. This is also why the government has called the conciliation board for a discussion of the Train Fund DK. As you know, the government is not included in the agreement on the Togfonden DK concluded in January 2014. Let me turn to the second part of the question, namely DSB's equipment. In order to meet DSB's material challenge, DSB has started to develop a decision-making basis for future material acquisitions, and the decision-making basis covers both the possible acquisition of ellocomotives to replace the ME locomotives and the long-term plan for the future train. It also stresses the need to electrify the Danish main railway, which the government supports. It is the transition to electric operation that can ensure the ability to purchase more stable electrical train equipment. Initially, it is important that we complete the electrification on Zealand, but also the main section should be electrified so that the future intercity train can be electric. But we will all come to that on Friday, when we have called for a debate on the Train Fund DK.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511152014	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511152016	Again, I would like to sign for the Minister's answer to the question. We know that there are too many rail passengers out there who experience in everyday life that we have an untimely rail system, that when you go from A to B, there are cancellations, there are delays, and you see that the level of railways you know from other countries cannot live up to in Denmark. Many have the experience that you almost enter a time pocket from the 1970s when you get on a Danish train. That's why we need to take the happen in the other hand and put action behind the words and get something done in this area. In 1979, I was 6 years old. This was the first time people talked about electrification of the Danish rail network, and we have still not finished it. I am not going to point the finger at the current minister. I know that my own party has also played a part in the challenges that have been going on. But when we had the power of government last time, we did something to put action behind words and put money off in this area so that something could happen. And there the new Left Government has now chosen to spend 11 months doing little more than finding holes in the plan of others. What is the government's answer to that and what is the Left's answer to it? What's gonna happen in this railroad area? What is the Left's proposal about this, because we have delivered the Train Fund DK? It is then said that there is not quite as much money as originally thought, but there is some money left. But what is the Left's play, what does the government think should happen in this area? We need clarification on this, even before we meet on Friday in the negotiating room.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511152203	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511152205	I don't know about sir. Rasmus Prehn needs clarification, but I can assure him he won't get it. I mean, we're not calling for negotiations on Friday to tell you today what the government thinks it should end with. It is in reverse order, so we have the discussion on Friday, and that is Mr. Rasmus Prehn has to wait. I'm glad to hear that, sir. Rasmus Prehn's remark that we should not criticize those who happen to be sitting with it. We would, of course, at some point also be discussing when electrification was stopped, and all sorts of other things, and I fully agree with Mr Beazley. Rasmus Prehn in that it's history. Let us now look forward, and we shall do so on Friday.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511152241	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511152243	I am very pleased with the Minister's willingness to look ahead and be with us to clarify this area and secure investment in future railway operations. When I venture to ask, however, the reason is that although the Minister is standing here and saying that there is certainly no intention on the part of the Left to announce anything before the negotiations, it was this weekend that the rapporteur on transport from the Left, Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen was here to tell you that the IC4 trains were just to be disposed of immediately. It is not that we need to keep them, but if we do, we risk being completely without equipment if we do not get new electric trains. And if it is that we do not get new electric trains, then it may be that we have to introduce that we drive the old MRI trains from the 1970s one more time, which is a lot, for example. In North Jutland, would be incredibly tired of. So left, we're just gonna dump IC4. You have...
ParlaMint-DK_20160511152345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511152347	I have a great deal of sympathy for the fact that Mr. Rasmus Prehn takes all the debates he wants with the Left Traffic Rapporteur. I'm speaking on behalf of the government. I also spoke at the consultation meeting about an open consultation where I was asked about it, and it can be seen that I replied that with the assessment we have of the IC4 trains today, we have to go in and look at a controlled settlement. It is clear that we are, because these trains are not driving as they should. I think we all agree on that, so let us not spend time on where and when they were bought. Let us still look ahead, as I say, and we will do best by meeting on Friday.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511152420	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511152423	The slow phasing out of these IC4 trains was something that was already planned under the previous government. So it seemed a little strange that suddenly it had to come out in the light again that something had to happen now, since there was actually a plan for it. But having said that, the Left has made a very big mistake in pointing the finger at the Social Democracy, at those of us who set up the Train Fund DK, saying that the funding was not good enough, that there is a lack of money and everything else. Now we must have clarification here on Friday, but what is basically the proposal for funding from the Left? As I know, the Left has not voted in favour of the funding provided for in the Danish Railway Fund, so the money that may be left now is not in the hands of the Left. How will the Left finance, for example? the electrification of the railway network forward-looking?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511152509	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511152512	Well, now we're not part of the Train Fund DK at all, and that's why I have to say that if you want to discuss this, it's going to happen on Friday. May I just say about the IC4 trains: No, the problem is that when you go in and look at the contract made and the agreements made, you can see that they are based on an overly optimistic view of how much IC4 trains could run. That is why we have now seen problems with people not being able to come forward, and that is why we see that these IC4 trains are unfortunately being taken out of service. We have to deal with that, and we can only do that by going in and looking at how we can then screw it together afterwards. And I'm sure Friday will be the starting point for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511152549	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. It was the Secretary of Transport and Building. We have a small traffic problem on the next issue, since the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing cannot arrive because of traffic congestion. So we're hiding question number. 5. Fortunately, both the Minister of Justice and Mr. Henning Hyllested saw himself able to advance their questions and answers. So we welcome the Minister of Justice and we welcome Mr. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten, who then, when he gets the weather, can read his question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511152616	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511152637	Thank you. My question is this: what is the Minister's position that the Tungvevscenter South under South-East Jutland Police should publish beforehand, according to among other things. The network edition of the JydskeWest Coast on 2 May 2016 that for the next 3 days up to Christ's Ascension Day, will carry out extensive large-car controls in South Jutland and on Funen?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511152700	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511152704	I am asked how I deal with the fact that the pre-control police are announcing that there will be extensive police controls on heavy vehicles. It is my view that it must be up to the police to decide in advance whether this is appropriate, for example. for preventive reasons, to publish a planned traffic control. I am fully confident that the police will also organise the traffic effort in the heavy goods vehicle sector on the basis of a police professional assessment of what is best for road safety. I am sure that the police will do so in the way that the police consider most effective and appropriate in the specific context. I know that the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs recently, at the request of Mr. Henning Hyllested has asked questions about e.g. the results of the heavy duty vehicle checks and the police action in this area. I look forward very much to returning with those answers to Mr. Henning Hylllested, after I get a statement from the National Police Department.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511152755	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511152757	I can understand it and, what to say, accept it. I actually respect the fact that the Minister of Justice may not interfere with the daily police work. The problem is that there have been quite extensive discussions for a long time. Those of us who have been dealing with this for many years know that there are also discussions within the police about how this is organised. And there's actually a lot of criticism about the efforts of the heavy goods vehicle police about those big multi-controls. This is, of course, the cornerstone of the control of large and heavy vehicles. The problem is that when you premonition it in advance, it is like the Factory Inspectorate telling a company in advance that we are coming. And then we know who has worked out in real life, of course very well how it goes. Then it'll be cleaned up everywhere before the Labour Inspectorate gets here. Or if Food Control shows up somewhere and says that now we come, yes, then it will be cleaned from top to toe in any company. And then it's really good that day, but it has no preventive effect, because the next day you're quite sure that the Food and Safety Authority isn't coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511152915	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511152919	But at least it's gonna be cleaned up that day. This kind of thing serves a purpose. I actually think that, uh... Henning Hyllested and I may disagree on the balance, but the fact that sometimes you do it in a way and that sometimes you do it in a different way can actually be common sense. And then we have to see whether there are significant differences in the figures when the police say that they do not disclose. Then, of course, we can see what the country is like. In any case, I look forward to coming back with that statement on the basis of the questions, Mr President. Henning Hyllested has left. We shall get to the bottom of whether there is anything that might be more effective than anything else. At any rate, I know that the police are carrying out their work on the basis of a desire to optimise the controls in question which are taking place.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511152959	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511153002	There should of course be no doubt about this, and that is also one of the reasons why I am now asking the questions to the Minister for Justice that it was, I would almost say, in the same second as Tungvegscenter Syd announced, that now we are there that I got a storm of inquiries from hauliers and drivers who drive on the Danish roads. They asked: What is this? Now they're just going around, that is, all those who don't have clean flour in the bag. There will be some who have also fallen into the trap, if I may say so. But all the others are just running around to a certain extent. That's what you want to avoid. At the same time, a number of drivers and road hauliers can see that when they approach the heavy goods vehicle centres, there is no immediate response. After all, they are making some specific enquiries about some specific vehicles, because they find out on the roads that what looks suspicious indeed. But nothing really happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511153057	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511153059	I don't know. A great deal of checks are being carried out. It is not the case that the country is uncontrollable. I just want to say that the way I see it, it's best to do this in a combination. There are also major discussions on legal certainty and road traffic control, etc., where people are trying to raise the very opposite view of it, Mr President. Henning Hyllested here claims. I actually think it's very wise to walk on two legs. But so, we are discussing a little, as the blind are fighting, at least for my own part, because I simply do not have sufficient knowledge yet of how it has actually worked in relation to that Mr. Henning Hyllested claims or says, to put it quietly. So let us have a sensible discussion of this in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and I shall look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511153147	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511153150	When the Minister talks about the other leg, perhaps that is what is really missing. At least that is the view that many drivers and road hauliers have around, i.e. that the other leg is missing. There may be a lack of very, very small patrol controls running around the terminal areas, for example. Padborg, as a complement to the large multi-controls. At the same time, it is a fact that police circles are not in a position to carry out controls on lorries. At least that's what they report. Of course, they can always stop a driver who's hammering drunk. That is clear, and so are they. But the second does not stop, for they simply do not have the knowledge and capacity to do so. That is where the problem arises. You become totally dependent on those multi-controls, which you then publish in advance. I would still venture to claim that this would weaken their effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511153236	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511153239	It is then a political expression of how you see things, and I think that is quite fair. However, what one can say about this very issue of priorities, as is suggested in the question, in other words how it is dealt with, is that one can only see that heavy vehicle controls are one of several means that we have to ensure compliance with the laws and regulations relating to the transport sector. What has been made possible in relation to the priorities of recent years is that police efforts have been stepped up against social dumping and illegal cabotage, among other things. with the assistance of the Danish Labour Inspectorate and SKAT in connection with these controls. And in the multi-year agreement for the police, which has been concluded and where the prosecution and police finances were dealt with until 2019, that effort must therefore be continued together. The pressure of control that was exerted in 2015 in relation to police action against, for example: illegal cabotage, therefore, is 5,000 checks carried out in 2015, and this is also expected to be done in 2016. So something happens anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511153342	Thanks to those two. We are very happy to see the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing come forward safely, but we are just waiting for Question 5 anyway, because it is the same crew who is on Question 7 as there is now, and then we might as well finish that question. It's for the Minister of Justice from Mr. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511153400	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511153402	Yes, I admit, of course, that the question is very similar to the first question. The first question was very specific. But I'm gonna read it up, and then we're gonna do a short round of it, too. Does the Minister consider that the most effective form of heavy-duty vehicle control, the purpose of which is to detect and aim the road hauliers and drivers who violate various laws and regulations, including cabotage rules, namely the so-called multi-checks, is carried out by publishing the inspection action in advance?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511153428	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511153431	After all, I am in favour of the confidence that lies in the question, because it gives me a deep insight into how the police should deal with their work, and I am actually pleased about that, because I have great respect for Mr Beazley. Henning Hylllested, so I'm glad. However, my view on the matter is that it must be up to the police to decide clearly how it is best organised when making a traffic control. I am confident that the police will do what they have to do, and that they will also organise the traffic in heavy goods vehicles on the basis of the police profession's assessment of what is best for road safety. So that is basically my starting point for it. And then we have to take these discussions on a regular basis and also read the results to see if I am right about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511153522	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511153524	I am particularly pleased with the last part of the answer, and I am, because that is exactly what I would like to hear. Now, if I may not repeat myself, will the Minister not help to raise these discussions with the police or the police about how to deal with this? It is, of course, as I also mentioned, because I get a lot of inquiries from road hauliers and drivers who drive daily on the Danish roads, and they are basically not satisfied with the efforts that are being made. They are certainly enthusiastic about the multi-controls that are being carried out, the major efforts that are being made, but they are largely lacking in the less effort in the form of patrol police, just a single patrol car, or the reaction of the police to enquiries that are being made quite specifically when hauliers and drivers around the roads find out: for one reason or another this simply cannot be right. As you know, there are a great many provisions that can be violated when you are a lorry driver or a lorry driver. So what I have also wanted with these questions is for us to have the whole discussion about whether that effort is, I would not say enough, but that it is at least going on many enough feet.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511153642	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511153645	As a rule, when I stand over here, it is because each member of parliament has a certain attitude as to where more police officers can be used. That is very, very typical, and I can reveal without saying too much that it spreads very far. There are a wide range of different areas in which the honourable Member's opinion is that there should be even more police officers in the work. And I actually have full respect for that, because there is nothing wrong with the fact that elected representatives are concerned not least with their local areas and things where police officers are needed. What I can give a commitment to is that we will follow this up and follow up on Mr. Henning Hyllested's question, and then we have to discuss it. One can say, and I say this without malice, that there was a police settlement where some people chose to invest their political capital in, for example. Mr President, I should like to make a few comments on this matter. Henning Hyllested outside the effort being made and take the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511153742	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511153744	Of course, I'm glad, certainly, and I'd like to sign for that. In fact, I also give the country's Minister of Justice the authority at any time that the Minister is actually able, what can be said, to enforce it is a bad expression • but at least to raise some discussions with the police. And that is, of course, because, as I say, there is also an internal discussion. After all, I am also being approached by policemen who are employed at heavy duty vehicle centres and who are not satisfied either. They feel that some guidelines have been drawn up very far from the top of the system which do not take account of their professional knowledge of how, for example, to do so. could fight cabotage much, much more effectively if you were allowed to patrol in small patrols around terminal areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511153832	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511153834	Now, in this context, I do not remember whether Mr. Henning Hyllested, like some of his colleagues, originates from the trade union movement, but I am sure the main agreement is that Mr. Henning Hyllested is familiar with the way in which the job is managed and distributed. So I think it is relatively unwise to get involved in it too much. Of course I can impose things if it is really necessary, but I now have a strong confidence, on the basis of which the police, in a sensible cooperation between management and employees, can work out how to solve these things. And the thing is, we, among other things, are... As far as traffic controls are concerned, the firmness with which they were carried out in the past has been relaxed in order to improve local organization in these contexts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511153914	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511153916	Yes, I'm something from a transport department under 3F, so I feel very, very close to life. I get a lot of inquiries as I approach my own hometown and my own union because there are a lot of drivers in that union. And that's one of them. I am also trying to pass on their knowledge, because they say that they do not think the effort is good enough or that it is not multifaceted enough. That's kind of just what I'm gonna say.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511153940	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511153942	Well, we're gonna have to look at it all the time. In other words, Danish police are facing the greatest reinforcement in recent times... over the next 3 years, 2 billion will be added. kr. and trained several police officers. In time, of course, we will regain the necessary strength to handle broader tasks. I think that everyone knows that the situation is therefore very much under pressure, both in relation to the border and in relation to the guarding of terrorism, etc., but I am very happy to have discussions with Mr Beazley. Henning Hyllested in these contexts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511154009	Thank you to the Minister of Justice and to Mr. Henning Hylllested. And then I am really, really glad that we can then go back to question 5, which is a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, and that is what Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511154028	He will read his question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511154033	Thank you. When the government regularly refers to an overall European solution to migratory pressures, what is the Minister's own proposal for such a solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511154041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511154043	The large influx of refugees and migrants has put Europe under extraordinary pressure and it challenges our national and international systems. I think that's what everyone has to say. In Denmark, it has been necessary to adapt our rules on foreigners in order to make it less attractive to move towards Denmark, and border controls have been necessary. It is a common challenge that we face, and that is why it also requires action at both national and European level. Firstly, the government's view is that it is essential to control the EU's external borders. This will reduce the number of refugees and migrants in Europe and help to bring fewer asylum seekers to Denmark. In the EU, the number of irregular migrants entering Greece in particular has fallen dramatically since the adoption of the EU-Turkey Declaration on 18 March, and in Denmark the number of asylum seekers is currently at present. lower than at the same time last year. However, I think it is important to note that this can very quickly change again, unfortunately. Secondly, it is important to ensure that there are no advantages in moving around Europe. It acts among other things. on the effective functioning of the Dublin system, and therefore it is also central to curb the flow of irregular migrants by ensuring the effective return of illegally staying third-country nationals in the EU, including in Denmark. In addition, measures are needed to prevent the flow of refugees and migrants. It is also one of the main ideas behind the political declaration and action plan adopted by the EU and African Heads of State or Government at the Valletta Summit on 12 November. So I think we need to get involved in the European discussions, because in the end there is a real need here for Europe to find answers together to the challenges that we are facing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511154257	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511154259	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. After all, I note that in the reply the Minister mentions that the number of people who apply to Denmark has fallen considerably since the introduction, I would call it border controls, but some sort of border control, at least random checks, at the Danish borders. After all, we are pleased that the policy we are proposing in the Danish People's Party also turns out to work, even though the solution came somewhat late. The reason why I am asking this question is that, from time to time, we hear that, instead of providing concrete solutions to the problems posed by migration pressures, migration, there are some people who switch to easy solutions and speak in headline terms and say that we just need to have common European solutions. It's very unconcrete, it doesn't say much. A common European solution can be anything. It could be anything between heaven and earth. The Prime Minister said in September 2015 to Ritzau: "The good solution is not a Danish solution. It is a European solution. It sounds fascinating, and I wish it was all so easy that you could just find a solution. But what is the solution? In other words, if the Minister and the government could choose entirely what such a solution would look like, what exactly would it look like?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511154417	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511154420	Well, then it's gonna be a big deal. about what we have done at home, to a large extent together with the Danish People's Party, namely to tighten up asylum policy. I think that's part of it. But we must also recognise that when we see a very large number of people entering Europe, it will of course also push us. So part of the solution is to curb the pressure on entry, in other words to control European borders, and to send back those who do not have the right to be here, because that is one of the things that is also helping to destroy the ability of traffickers to do business. Because if you can see that it does not help when you come to Europe, but that you are sent back again, then it is a very important thing in order to destroy the business as it is. So it's also about return. We can do something there ourselves. Of course, we can do something to those who have come here, but it is actually something that should be given priority at European level. I can also tell you that this is one of the things that we ministers also talk about among ourselves when we meet under the auspices of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511154528	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511154529	The last thing the Minister says is of great interest to me, that is to say, to this case of repatriation. In my ears, it sounds like you are approaching some kind of Australian model, and of course I am interested in getting the Minister's confirmation that this is the way you want to go. After all, it is a model that has produced some very good results in Australia at least. I am worried that these EU solutions are like looking for a unicorn, that is to say, believing in an adventure that does not exist; you can keep looking and looking, but there is still no solution that is not really getting any closer. That's how it is sometimes with these solutions, they feel incredibly far away. In the first place, I would just like the Minister to confirm whether it is the Australian model that is being searched.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511154613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511154616	No, I would say that the migrants who come to Europe, who do not have the right to reside in Europe and who will never have the right to stay here, are some of those who need to be tackled very quickly and sent back home again. We are also not good enough for it in Denmark in all cases, so it is also one of the things we should have looked at ourselves, i.e. how we do more. We have among other things. also established an exit centre. It may seem small, but it is not. But it is to keep track of who it is that actually has to be sent out of the country again. I am holding negotiating meetings, I would call it, with ministers from other countries, for example. I have just had a meeting with the Iranian Minister, precisely to tell them that they are obliged also to welcome their own nationals when their citizens are not entitled to be here. Now the questioner used the unicorn as a picture, and then I can say that somehow it is a multi-headed monster you need to get here, because there isn't just a tiny snapping solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511154723	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511154725	That brings me a little to the next one. I asked whether it was an Australian model that the government, in cooperation with other countries, would approach at some point, and I would say that the Australian model will really take the air out of this business that some smugglers have by transporting here, because people who would then come here would know that there is no reason to use these smugglers, because we are not allowed to stay anyway. I had hoped that the Minister would confirm that this was the direction in which we wanted to go. Now I think it was a rather mild solution instead, because then it is said that some should be sent back, some should stay. It was clear from the debate in the Parliamentary Chamber yesterday that some people should be integrated and probably never come home again, so is there no need to go much harder? Let me just remind you that a year ago, the Left campaigned for an immediate halt, but now you have to thank me with an increase of 43 per cent, if I do not remember quite wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511154821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511154823	I think we should also be fair and say that the tightenings that we have carried out together with the Danish People's Party have had an effect. Because if you look at the countries around us, you will see that Germany has had an increase of approx. 130% in the number of asylum seekers from 2014 to 2015 that Sweden has had an increase of 100 per cent, the Norwegians an increase of 160-170%, as far as I remember, the Finns over 700 per cent, almost 800 per cent, but from a low level. When we have had an increase of just over 40%, it is of course because living conditions mean something, but there are also other things that matter. I just think that we should recognise that the tightening-up that we have achieved has actually worked, but as long as external borders are not under control and as long as migrants who are not entitled to be in Europe are not returned, we will continue to be under pressure, because those who come to Europe are not all refugees, there are plenty of migrants between them too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511154918	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the author. Then it is time to move on to Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) and on behalf of the Group of the The question has been asked by Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten. I can say that she has a questioner, Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511154938	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511154940	How does the Minister expect that the major technical problems with the F-35 combat aircraft and the further delays warned by the US control programme will affect the price of F-35?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511154954	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511154956	Thank you. In a short time, the government will present its position on the type selection of Denmark's new fighter aircraft, and in this context the government will also publish the basis for the decision on which the government's position is based. The evaluations of the three combat aircraft candidates in four areas are also included: strategic, military, economic and industrial. With its publication, the government wishes to contribute to the basis for a qualified debate on the fighter aircraft candidates involved in the type-election process, not least the economic aspects of the acquisition. However, before the government has presented its position and the basis for the decision, I do not think it is right to comment on the individual candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511155054	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511155056	I would like to start by saying that the F-35 is, of course, the clear favourite of becoming the new fighter aircraft, as the office points out, there are already very, very strong reports about that. One can say that Denmark has already invested 2 billion in this project, so I think that, when we look at how advanced the process is, it would be very relevant if the Secretary of Defense would also relate to this plane, precisely because we know that there have been very, very critical reports promoting that this plane has not been fully developed, that there has been a great deal of progress in the timetable, and both the US control office and the U.S. National Audit Office are very, very concerned about how things are going with the development of the plane. So I would still say that the Secretary of Defense would be able to lift the veil a little too, given that we are so close in the process. In this context, I would also like to hear from the Minister for Defence when we can expect this basis of decision to be put forward and how long we can expect there to be for this debate, because I really think there is a lot to discuss here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511155205	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511155209	Whether or not F-35 is Enhedslisten's favorite or not, I will not interfere. What I am talking about is that there is this process of weighing the three candidates, and I think it will send some strange signals if the government, ahead of its position, should comment publicly on the strengths and weaknesses, prices and uncertainties of the various candidates. It would give a very strange course. However, as I have said on several occasions and also in good debates with Mrs Flyvholm, the government will organise a process on the choice of the new fighter planes with the greatest possible openness. So there will be plenty of opportunity to debate, and hopefully also on an enlightened basis. I am so sure that after the publication of the government's position and decision-making basis, we can also have a debate on candidates' prices and uncertainties.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511155312	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511155315	I would ask the Minister to confirm that he can promise that we will get a price on these fighter planes and that we will know what the expected lifetime costs will be on the planes. Is it something that is being publicized before the conciliation circle makes this decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511155333	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511155335	We intend to present the basis for the decision so that we can also see the overall economy of the candidate that the government will propose. It will also be publicly available. Then there may be some questions which I have already informed Mrs Flyvholm about which are commercially or militaryly confidential, and which will be made available to the Folketing in confidence. So Parliament will, of course, have access to all information and there will be parts of the information that will not be published, but I think it will surprise Mrs Flyvholm how much will be publicly available.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511155422	Then it is the co-questioner who has the opportunity to ask.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511155428	Thank you. I understand that there is, of course, a process going on now and we must wait for it to take place. But in it is also that it is the battle airplane office that likes to make an attitude and measures the planes on different parameters. It does not, of course, prevent the Minister for Defence or anyone else from having an attitude towards the candidates who are and to be able to respond to the criticism that is being raised. It is, of course, a major criticism raised by the F-35. It's not because it's Enhedslisten's favorite, but it's like the plane that's always referred to as being a favorite to win this. There have been major problems. It must also be interesting for the Minister for Defence and the public, moreover, to take note of a criticism that has been made. After all, we have just seen how the IC4 train has been scrapped precisely because of major problems with the software, which is also one of the major problems with the F-35. So it might be nice to hear the Secretary of Defense's position on the problems that have been raised so that we do not get to buy a flying IC4 train.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511155530	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511155534	So, what we can probably agree on is that there are many others who have positions on the candidates before the combat aircraft office makes its recommendation and the government puts its position before the public and the Folketing. But that does not change the fact that I, as Minister, will follow the process that is planned. I think that would be most correct, so that we can have that debate on a jointly informed basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511155604	The enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511155607	All right. I understand that the Minister will certainly not deal with the problems that have been raised. That's okay, then. Could the Minister then reply to the following: now that the basis is being laid, how long does the Minister think there is a reasonable period to ensure that there is a broad public debate both in relation to the strategic considerations that may be in relation to what kind of fighter aircraft we want, but also in relation to the economy and to the technical challenges that exist? How long does the Minister think will be an appropriate time for an open, public and thorough debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511155642	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511155643	I am quite sure that when the government comes forward with its attitude, there will be a great debate. This is perfectly understandable because it is a very large investment that Denmark has to make in order to make a replacement compared to our F-16 aircraft. How long does it take? Well, that also depends on how long the parties in the defense circle need, so that they feel properly dressed to make a decision. So this is very much something that I want to clarify with the parties that have to decide which fighter planes Denmark should have, and including Enhedslisten does not hear, because Enhedslisten is not part of the defence reconciliation circle. And as I understand, the Enhedslisten basically doesn't want you to have a fighter plane.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511155733	Then that is the final question to the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511155738	I just want to say that I am very, very concerned that the Secretary of Defense will not comment on this. It is quite true that we in the Enhedslisten do not want a fighter plane, but I think that everyone in this country is entitled to know how things are going with a project where Denmark has already dropped 2 billion. kr. in a fighter plane you're probably buying for 30 billion. kr., and how the development of it is really going. That the Secretary of Defense will not comment on it or how expensive it will be, I think is very, very worrying. I also find it very, very worrying that we cannot have a period of time on how long the public, journalists and so on. can get to take a look at it. I don't really have any more questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511155818	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511155820	I have also heard earlier that Enhedslisten thinks that there should be a major public debate on an uninformed basis, because it would then be without us having a qualified bid from the three candidates on which we can discuss and start. When the government has chosen a line where there will be public insight into how we reach our decision, it is rather strange that the government is then accused of secrecy because we have not yet published the report. It is certainly a view which Enhedslisten can then run for a short time yet, and then the crazy debate stops after all, because the Folketing then gets insight into the decision-making basis and we can take a real debate. At that time, I would very much like to debate what attitude the government has and how we have reached it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511155922	Thank you for questions and answers to question 8. We move on to Question 9, which is also addressed to the Minister for Defence and also by Mrs Flyvholm and also by Mr Flyvholm. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511155933	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511155935	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that F 35 is the most suitable fighter aircraft for territorial defence of Denmark and overflight of the Arctic?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511155944	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511155946	Well, that will be the same answer that I also gave to the previous question, because what Enhedslisten again asks about here are the differences between the different candidates • these are strengths, and these are weaknesses • and that is exactly what the Kampfly Office is evaluating and we are going to make a decision on the basis of. When that evaluation is published, you will also be able to see how the three candidates perform on the different weights, including in relation to their capabilities as fighter aircraft. In my opinion, we will then discuss this when we have an enlightened basis on which to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511160038	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511160040	Thank you very much. Well, I'd say this isn't an uninformed basis. Some of the sources to which we refer are, after all, the U.S. National Audit Office, it is the American Defense's own test office, it is a major congress hearing that is under way in Australia, where F 35 has just been bought. That is also why I am interested in some of this; I also hope that the Secretary of Defense will take an interest in this, given that we are so close to this battle aircraft purchase. When I ask about this territorial defence thing, it is precisely because, what to say, the interesting thing about F 35 is that there are very persistent rumors about this, and this isn't the Enhedslisten's, but the favorite aircraft of the government and the Battlefly Office... that it has been developed as a bomber and that it has a number of technical problems. That's what it is. In addition, however, there are significant sources, for example. a general who has been the leader of Air Combat Command in the U.S. Air Force, who says that this plane, F 35, is not built to do sovereignty enforcement. First of all, it's built like an attack plane. We know from Australia that engineers and former pilots are criticizing this plane for not being able to resist attacks by, for example, Chinese and Russian planes. So I think that is very relevant, in other words, how the Minister feels about it. If the argument or one of the arguments for new fighters is, as we have heard now, that we should be able to defend Danish airspace and if one of the aircraft that is here and is even what I see as the favourite cannot be used for it, then we are in some trouble. So I would just like to ask the Secretary of Defense to say a little more about what criteria these planes are being tested on. Can we be sure that F 35 will be better suited than F 16 to defend Danish airspace if at some point it is delivered?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511160246	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511160246-2	In addition to what I have answered in the past, I can't help but draw a friendly smile on the tape that Enhedslisten believes that if the fighter plane we choose isn't strong enough as territorial defence, then we have real problems. Because that is an interesting point of view, since at the same time they believe that we should not have any fighter aircraft at all. So if you really listen, you can get a little confused. Because is it important for the Enhedslisten that we have a fighter plane that can secure our airspace, assert our territorial defences, or should we not have a fighter plane? You can be puzzled about that. What I want to say is that it will be the aircraft, all three candidates also emphasised, and that is why it will also be shown in the evaluation report, and thus it will also be the basis for a good debate and a debate, which I believe will only be improved by the fact that it is based on some facts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511160352	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511160354	Well then, I would like to stress that what Enhedslisten has first and foremost a problem with is that we do not think that Denmark should go out to bomb in the world. And what you're exactly buying here is a bomber. The discussion about enforcing the defence of Danish airspace seems to me to be very relevant, and I am very surprised that the Minister for Defence does not take this more seriously, because a very, very serious criticism has been raised. By the way, I would have liked to have asked Lockheed Martin about it myself. They should have arrived on Friday, but we have just heard that they are being prevented from coming by the US Department of Defense or the US Government, I understand. What does the Minister think of us not being given the opportunity to hear the producers' own interpretation of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511160438	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511160440	Well, I do not, in fact, have any opinion as to how the three companies choose to market their products and what debates they want to take part in. What I am concerned about is that the parties that will be involved in making a decision on Denmark's future fighter aircraft will have a good process, that they will feel properly dressed, so that they can be comfortable in making a decision. I would just like to point out, for the sake of good order, that all three types of aircraft that are being evaluated are bombers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511160522	Then I give the floor to Mr. Peder Hvelplund as an enquirer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511160525	Now the Secretary of Defense used the phrase earlier that it was a crazy debate. I must agree entirely with the Secretary of Defense. I think this is a very, very crazy debate, and I think it is primarily because the only people who are obviously not interested in having an opinion on this issue are the Minister for Defence and the government. We can see that when Boeing goes out and spends millions of dollars on an advertising campaign, it is because they have a purpose for it. They want to influence the public debate. Speaking of the biggest public investment in the history of Denmark, we are talking about an investment in somewhere between 20 and 30 billion. kr. and about a place between 80 and 100 billion. kr. It's strange that we can't have a public debate about what kind of tasks we want this plane to solve, i.e. whether it's in the field of territorial defence. The Taksøe report has now come up on what kind of foreign policy we must pursue in the future. Well, that's got an interest. There are a lot of people who are trying to influence this process, and then it seems very, very strange that we have a government that does not want to take part in this debate at all but which says: it is going on in a closed room; we are awaiting a report and then we are taking a debate that depends on what the conciliation parties say; if they agree that it is going to be a short debate, then it will be a short debate and then a decision will be taken. That is a strange way of having a democratic debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511160650	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511160651	The Enhedslisten has to respect that there is a very, very large majority in the Danish Parliament who wants something other than Enhedslisten. It has been many years since the conciliation circle decided that you should have new fighter planes. It is part of the present defence settlement. That is why a process has been put in place, which started under the previous government, with the discovery of which aircraft manufacturers wanted to be part of the competition, and then those candidates have been thoroughly evaluated. Then the government must make a recommendation and it will then be discussed with the conciliation circle and there will be a public debate. That's how the process is organized. Now Enhedslisten is trying to make it something closed and a wrong process, and it basically covers the fact that Enhedslisten is against fighter planes and has been so all the time, and then you try to suspicious both the government and the rest of the parties in the conciliation circle. I do not really have many views on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511160756	The enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511160757	Good. Since we are not going to discuss the process and openness, I would like to ask: what greater weight is attached to the government in relation to the choice of fighter aircraft with all the advantages and disadvantages they each have? What's the heaviest thing? Is it the territorial defence of Denmark and the overflight of the Arctic, or is it being able to participate in international operations? What is the main purpose of spending some 30 billion? kr. on the purchase of fighter aircraft?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511160824	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511160825	The government will come up with a position based on what has been agreed in the conciliation circle, namely that aircraft should be evaluated on the basis of the tasks that we are doing today. The task complex that we have today includes territorial defence, and it also includes international operations. In other words, the evaluation of the three candidates will take place on the basis that they can do the same amount of work as we are doing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511160901	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm who asks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511160903	First of all, I would like to say that I would like the Secretary of Defense and the Conciliation Committee to acknowledge that there is a majority of the people who are opposed to this purchase of combat aircraft and to take note of it and also to have an open debate with the people about it. I think that would be really awesome. But what I would like to ask here at the end of the day is: can we be sure that the basis for the decision which is being put forward will show what parameters the aircraft have been evaluated from?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511160936	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511160937	It will be clear from the decision-making basis that all three candidates have of course been weighed on the same weight, and this also applies in different operational scenarios.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511160955	Thank you. The question is closed. Then we welcome the Minister for Health and the Elderly and move on to Question 10, which Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511161008	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511161009	Will the Minister be working for an opt-out scheme, such as the Vævsbrugsdirektoratet, so that a citizen can, in general, renounce participation in emergency research attempts, which the citizen is not aware of, as many citizens are insecure about the prospect that in the event of sudden illness or an accident they may participate in a medical research project without their own or relatives having had the opportunity to give informed consent to participation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511161037	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511161038	First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen for the question. I would like to start by stressing that it is of course important to ensure that all citizens can be comfortable in participating in a research project, even when we are talking about research in acute situations. Therefore, a research project in acute situations, like other clinical research projects, must, of course, be approved and subjected to a thorough prior scientific and ethical assessment before they can be started. The research project will include: meet a number of strict conditions before it can be approved, e.g. that the project has the potential to give the subject a direct clinical benefit and that the study involves only a minimal burden and risk to the subject compared to the standard treatment. Then we are asked whether I want to work for an opt-out system, for example, like the Tissue Use Register. I do not think that is the way forward. Firstly, it will be difficult on a sufficiently informed basis to decide whether or not to participate in emergency research, especially since a general opt-out system does not consider a specific research project. There is also a risk that a patient will unintentionally be prevented, for example, from receiving the treatment that may be the only treatment that can save the patient's life. I think that would be very sad and unhappy for the individual patient.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511161213	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511161214	Thank you for your answer. The whole basis for experimenting on people is precisely that it is based on an informed consent, i.e. that a subject has the opportunity to assess whether it is something he wants to join or not. And in this situation, it is not so crucial whether the patient's objections are valid or taken over there can be a feeling that this is something that one simply does not want to participate in, determining whether he will participate. However, precisely in the case of acute tests, where there is a particularly vulnerable situation and where it can be said that it is perhaps very important that there is an opportunity to take a position, the Minister does not want to give a trial subject the opportunity to resign in advance. I don't understand. Is it not ethically extremely questionable that a person should be included in an attempt without having had the opportunity in any way to take a position on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511161315	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511161316	I fully agree with the questioner that it is, of course, very important to safeguard the right of the citizen to self-determination, but at the same time I also believe that it is extremely difficult for a citizen to decide that in general he does not want to take part in research projects which are not concrete. Does the citizen want to cut himself off from a research project which is likely to save the lives of the citizens? I do not think so, but it may be that the questioner has a different view. In addition, it is therefore a direct requirement in relation to the regulation that the specific trial has the potential to have a direct clinical benefit for the individual subject and that it can thus lead to a measurable health improvement and/or lead to a diagnosis of the subject's suffering.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511161413	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511161414	Yeah, but if you like... then look at the general clinical world, so it is the case that a patient has the opportunity to renounce treatment, whether it will be able to save his life or relieve, etc., as the Minister himself says. But exactly in the experimental part, which is quite special, the Minister does not want to leave those principles in force, that is, that a patient has the opportunity to say: Whatever might save my life once in the future, I do not want to wake up after a stroke and find out that I have participated in a research project. Does the Minister not understand the concern that a citizen may have against that background?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511161451	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511161452	I would also be worried if we started to make a scheme whereby, as a patient as a citizen, we cut ourselves off from opportunities to receive treatment, which might be the only treatment that would save one's life in the end. And as I said earlier, I am very, very, very important to patients' rights and right of self-determination, but the very special thing when we talk about research in acute situations is that it is because of the urgency of the situation, of which the word 'emergency', as a result of an example. sudden onset of life-threatening disease that it is not possible to obtain prior consent. Precisely because no prior consent can be obtained, a research project must, inter alia, in any emergency situation. meet a number of different strict conditions before it can be approved, for example that the project has a potential to give the subject, as I mentioned before, a direct clinical advantage, that the trial involves only a minimal burden and risk to the subject in relation to the standard treatment, and that is why, overall, I believe that the rules balance the consideration of the rights and welfare of the subject on the one hand, and at the same time also ensure the possibility of researching in acute situations which I hope and believe the questioner seems to be very important also happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511161621	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511161622	Well, I'm fully aware of the importance of this type of research. There can be no doubt about that. However, precisely when the Minister talks about the rights of the potential subject, it is true that, according to the thinking of the Minister, as a patient or as a citizen, there are no rights when it comes to emergency trials, precisely because you do not have the opportunity to say in advance: I do not want to take part in this, whether we can save a life or not. That's what I don't quite understand. Can the Minister perhaps elaborate on how to look at the rights of the potential subject, for they have not been taken into account?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511161658	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511161700	If we now follow the questioner's thinking and proposals to introduce such an opt-out system, it would mean that, on an uninformed or inadequate basis as a citizen and as a patient, we would have to take a position on research in acute situations. And why is it that they will not be fully informed? Yes, it is because if you make such a general opt-out system, which is what the questioner is asking for, then you do not take a position on a specific research project. We are talking about this in an emergency situation, which means that an opt-out system, which is what the questioner is asking for, involves the very risk that a person, a patient, will unintentionally be prevented from receiving the best treatment, which may be the only person who can help save the patient's life in the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511161752	Thank you. The question is closed. We move on to Question 11, which is also addressed to the Minister for Health and the Elderly, and that is with Mr. Erik Christensen, the Social Democrat who asks.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511161803	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511161804	Thank you. Does the Minister think that it can reasonably be said that our care for the elderly is strengthened under the government when almost a third of the municipalities will spend less money per year? older than 80 years in 2016 than in 2015, e.g. Because they find themselves forced to save because of... the re-prioritisation contribution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511161821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511161822	There should be no doubt that the government is giving the elderly a very high priority. From the first day, we have been working to strengthen our efforts towards some of the weakest elderly, not least the elderly. Together with the parties behind the Finance Act, we have decided for 2016 to raise the health and elderly area by 3.4 billion. kr. extra this year. We have among other things. ECU 1 billion has been allocated for this purpose. kr. extra each year for the municipalities to provide a more dignified care and care. These are resources that can be used for additional staff and skills development. Then, together with the parties behind the pool agreement, we have set aside just under half a billion. kr. a future national dementia action plan to make Denmark a dementia-friendly society and ensure that both people affected by dementia and their relatives receive better life and support. It is a plan which must be ready this autumn and of which I expect a great deal. As recently as Monday, the Prime Minister gathered all stakeholders and experts in the field for a meeting at Marienborg about precisely dementia. In addition, we have set aside 100 million, for example. kr. to introduce permanent doctors to nursing homes to help lift and improve health care for residents and also help prevent all the many unnecessary admissions and re-hospitals that we have in the hospital system among our elderly patients. Finally, in the 2016 Finance Act, we have allocated EUR 1.2 billion. kr. additional to a future national action plan for the elderly medical patient to improve the quality and treatment in the care of the very weakest elderly patients. 1.2 billion kr. kr. over four years when the author's party launched its national action plan for the elderly medical patient, so it has to be said that the level of everything else has just been raised. I have now mentioned a number of initiatives which, together and separately, show that we want to strengthen the care of the elderly and that we want to strengthen the care and treatment of the weakest elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511162039	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511162041	Thank you. Thank you for your answer. I have no doubt that the Minister also wants to strengthen the area of the elderly. What is my concern is that when the Minister and others communicate that care for the elderly has been given a big boost with the dignity billionaire and with the pool of rates for dementia, it is still a problem that we actually have 29 municipalities where they have not actually had the opportunity to spend more money in the area of the elderly. They've had to go out and save. And here I am referring to the investigation by the Elders Case. This means that there are almost a third of the municipalities and one third of the older citizens of the municipalities who do not experience a boost, but actually experience savings. In addition, a great many of the municipalities that had planned savings in the area of the elderly have used the dignity billion to close that gap. And that means that in this way there is the status quo. I recognise, and I believe, that the Minister also wants to raise the level of services in the area of the elderly, but I just have a problem with us telling and creating an expectation among the citizens of many municipalities that there will be a boost in the care of the elderly, and that is actually not what is possible in the municipalities that not only have to save, but have also used the dignity billion to close some gaps so that they actually have the status quo.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511162207	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511162209	First of all, I would like to thank you for your confidence in me as Minister. Having said that, I agree that we have a joint responsibility here in the Folketing in relation to the vote of expectation with the citizens. This does not just apply to health and the elderly, where there are very high expectations. This is also true in all other areas. What is a fact is that the framework of the municipalities in the area of the elderly is larger under this government than it was under the previous government. Is it the same as that there is enough money and that all the problems have been solved? No, it's not. We have given priority to raising health and the elderly by 3.4 billion. kr. extra. We have given an extra billion on top of the old elderly billion with an extra dignity billion to support the work on dignity policy and the creation of a more dignified care for the elderly in the country's municipalities. On top of that, we have taken a number of other initiatives which are not only interest-pooled, but which are also funded through the financial agreement between the Left, the Conservative People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party. And the premise behind the dignity billionaire now that the questioner is talking about closing the gaps is that in 2016 the funds should be added to the service level established by the municipalities for 2016 and established before the Finance Act was concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511162334	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511162335	Yes, but the reality is that in the 2016 budget, savings have been made in the area of the elderly. Then it is true that when there is a financial agreement and 1 billion is added. kr. with the dignity billionaire, the municipalities get it. But it then closes the gap after the savings, so it will not mean that there will be a boost in the care of the elderly in the municipalities, but that there is actually the status quo. That is why I am just calling for something else to be communicated together somewhere, so that there is no expectation on the part of older citizens that there will now be a boost in the care of the elderly in the country's municipalities. For when approx. One third of the municipalities will necessarily have to make savings in this area and others will use the money from the dignified billion to close a gap, then the Minister will have to acknowledge that this is not a boost.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511162423	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511162424	The municipalities have not saved in the area of the elderly in 2016, and the municipalities' framework in the area of the elderly is larger under this government than it was under the government from which the questioner's party comes, namely the Social Democratic led government, and larger than the framework that the questioner's party's government prioritised in the area of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511162445	Then I give the floor to Mr. Magnus Heunicke as an enquirer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511162451	That sounds very good when we hear the Minister tell about the reality in our municipalities. It could be that we should try to hear what the municipalities themselves say and what the elderly themselves are experiencing. Because if you soberly make an inventory of how much money there is for the care of the elderly this year, compared to when the government arrived, then there are 29 municipalities where you can see that they save on the care of the elderly and the care of the elderly compared to 2015. How can the Minister stand in this Chamber and claim that more money has come and that the level has been raised when there are 29 municipalities which, despite what the Minister has said, have had to cut because of the re-priority contribution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511162543	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511162544	Now I repeat: there is more money for the elderly under this government than there was under the previous government. Then I fully agree that it is important to move into reality and talk to the elderly themselves and their relatives. That is, in fact, one of the things that I attach great importance to as Minister. Among other things, you can... Click on the website of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly and follow the Danish map of where I have so far been as part of the national dementia action plan. I attach importance to this being worked out in close cooperation with and after contributions from those on whom it is all about, namely people with dementia and their relatives and the many skilled professionals who work in the field of dementia. I do not have the exact figure, but I have visited at least over 30 different nursing homes. I'm not done yet. I have also taken inspiration from abroad. So I think one should be careful to say that as a minister I should also move a trip out in reality. It is in that way that I find myself in a very large part of the time. Am I saying that there are no real challenges in the area of elderly people, whether we are talking nursing homes or home care? No, I don't. There are challenges and we need to raise the quality of our care for the elderly. This is also part of the reason why, in addition to the series of initiatives which I listed up to the previous one and which this government has taken on health and the elderly, we have also decided to start a committee work with the National Association of Municipalities and Danske Regions on the development of the closely related health care. This is in order to support better quality also in the area of older people, for example. to ensure a higher quality of health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511162711	The enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511162712	However, it was an awful lot of words that came out of the Minister's mouth here. I asked specifically about the inventory which the Elders case has been prepared and which shows in black and white that there are 29 municipalities that save on care and care for the elderly compared to when the minister arrived. The minister then answers something by saying that she has traveled land and wealth around. I don't know if she's been to Viborg, Holbæk, Stevns, Hillerød, Ringkøbing-Skjern, Herning, Bornholm etc. older than when the Minister came to. Is that false information?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511162750	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511162752	What I think should be looked at is what we deliver as a government. We said before the parliamentary elections that we would raise the health and elderly area. We delivered it after the election. Others did not do so when they were given government responsibility. We have raised the health and elderly area by 3.4 billion. kr. extra. This also means that the municipalities have not saved in the area of older people in 2016. This means that there is also more money for the elderly under this government than there was under the previous government. But is it the same as that you're a member of parliament, as a relative, as a resident of a nursing home, can't find examples that there are places where things aren't as they should be or as we would like them to be? No, of course not. There are plenty of challenges in our healthcare, in our care for the elderly, which we work hard to solve.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511162843	Thanks to the co-author. I give the floor back to Erik Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511162847	Thank you. I would like to follow up where the questioner ended. I assume that the Minister recognizes the Elders Case's investigation, which shows that 29 municipalities barely and barely a third of the country's municipalities are actually spending less money per year. 80+-year-olds than they did in 2015. Since that is the case, the Minister will not acknowledge in this Chamber that there are approx. one third of the country's municipalities, which are unable to spend the same money on the elderly in 2016 as they did in 2015?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511162926	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511162927	This is only the case if, as a municipal council, as part of budgeting for 2016, you have decided to save a lot of money in the area of older people. Then it is fortunate that the government, along with the Finance Law parties, will come and lift up the area of the elderly and ensure that there will be 3.4 billion. kr. extra for health and the elderly. If you think it is tight now, you can look at what it was that applied a moment ago when the questioners' party was responsible. So there is more money for the elderly now than there was when the responsibility was in the hands of the Socialists. I would like to repeat: is this the same thing as not finding examples of things in the care of the elderly, in the care centres, not being as they should be? No, of course you can find examples of that, unfortunately. That is why we need to improve quality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163020	Thank you to the Minister and to the questioner and co-author. The question is closed. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 12, which is also addressed to the Minister for Health and the Elderly by Mr. Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163036	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163038	Will the Minister guarantee that the re-priority contribution will be returned to the municipalities one to one, so as to ensure that some municipalities are not forced to make savings in the area of the elderly in 2017-2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163050	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163053	Thank you, President. As my previous answer showed, the government is giving priority to the area of elderly people. We do this together with health, and that is why the government, together with the parties behind the 2016 Finance Act, has lifted the health and elderly area by 3.4 billion. kr. extra this year. We have among other things. ECU 1 billion has been allocated for this purpose. kr. extra for a more dignified care of the elderly. The re-prioritisation contribution is precisely helping to create the prerequisite for us to be able to prioritise core welfare as well. The re-prioritisation contribution must be used for citizens' services, and the money must be used precisely where the need is greatest. In 2017, the government will return the money from the re-priority contribution to the municipalities to priority areas. The precise implementation of the funds in 2017 will take place in the economic negotiations with the municipalities in the early summer and in the financial negotiations in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163149	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163150	Thank you. What is the challenge in the municipalities is that they are obliged to have a balance between expenditure and revenue, not only in the coming budget year but also in all the financial years. This means that many municipalities, when they do not know how much they get back from one percent and if they are earmarked for certain areas, have to go out and make savings before you know the outcome of the municipal agreement. That is also why, in the previous question, I referred to the fact that one third of the municipalities have already been out to save. Then I have to say to the Minister that what is in the study from the Elders Case is that there are 29 municipalities that have actually saved. In addition, there are 18 municipalities which say that if it was not the case that the dignity billion had been obtained, savings should have been made. It has helped to close gaps, which I also mentioned in my previous question. But what is relevant here is, of course, that I would like the Minister today to give a statement as to whether the municipalities and that is most likely more than there are here in 2016 • which in the coming years are planning savings in the area of older people, can expect that there will be crowns back in the area of older people in relation to what they are going to deliver in the form of the one percent re-prioritisation contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163318	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163318-2	First of all, I would like to make it clear that it is a myth that the re-priority contribution means that the municipalities have less money for services. Because that is simply not correct. What I did not have time to answer in my previous reply before, when the President looked as if we were going to conclude, was that the dignity billion in itself has the built-in premise that the funds in 2016 should be added to the level of service that each municipal council has politically determined and decided. The budgets in the municipalities were laid before the financial law agreement was concluded, which means that the funds prioritised through the dignity billion should be added to the municipalities' budgets for 2016. Therefore, the municipalities must also confirm in writing that they are using the funds for activities in the area of the elderly which are beyond the adopted budgets of the municipalities for 2016. In this way, we will also ensure that dignity billions go to new activities or to the expansion of existing activities in the area of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163422	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163423	Then it is also true, as I have already mentioned, that if, in the budget, because you are actually going to hand in this money in re-priority contributions, you have made savings in the area of the elderly, then the part of the dignity billion that the municipality is going to get is part of it. Then it is true, as the Minister says, that it will be added, but if it is added to something that is smaller, then you will have the status quo, as I mentioned in my previous question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163447	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163448	Firstly, I would like to reiterate: the municipalities have not saved in the area of the elderly in 2016. The dignity billion is assuming that the funds from 2016 will be added to the level of service laid down by the municipalities in their budgets • budgets that were adopted before the Finance Act was adopted. In this way, there is the inherent requirement of the dignity billionaire that it should be implemented in such a way that it goes to activities in the area of the elderly, which are beyond the agreed budgets, and which support either new activities or an extension of existing activities in the area of the elderly in each municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163531	Then it's mr. Magnus Heunicke as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163532	Thank you. The question here is, in fact, the question put by my colleague, which is about the future. What can you count on? It can be said that this is the case, because the negotiations have started, and in the municipalities they must start by putting the budget in the second we know what comes out of these negotiations. Therefore, it could be exciting if the Minister would try to answer the question rather than repeat what has been said in the past. The question is therefore whether the minister can guarantee that the re-priority contribution, which is a result of government policy • it is not ours; it is the government's policy • is returned to the municipalities one by one, so as to ensure that no cuts are made in the area of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163627	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163629	This government is giving priority to health and the elderly. We said that before there were elections, and we say that after there were elections, but perhaps as something new for the author's party it is also followed by action so that it is not just words from before the elections. The re-prioritisation contribution will be returned to the municipalities in 2017, and the concrete implementation of the re-prioritisation contribution will take place in the context of the negotiations on the local economy that have just started and in the context of the forthcoming financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163700	The enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163702	I know we have such a rule, preferably not to answer the question. But perhaps I could appeal to you to try to answer that. Is it the case that the Minister responsible for this area can guarantee it or cannot guarantee it? It may be that we have to say this: if you cannot give a clear answer to it, it must mean that you cannot guarantee that the funds that you force the municipalities to give in the re-prioritisation contribution that we did not hear a sound about from the Left, since there was an election campaign • will come back either in the municipal negotiations or in the Finance Act. Can she guarantee that they will also come back in the area of the elderly so that there will be no savings in the area of the elderly, or can she not guarantee that? It's either yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163741	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163743	I can guarantee that this government will give priority to health and the elderly. That is what we said before the parliamentary elections, and I would very much like to repeat it here today in the Chamber to the questioner. This is then the second time and therefore an answer to the questioner's question as to whether I will guarantee that we will give priority to health and the elderly. Yes, we will.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163759	Sir. Erik Christensen who asks.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163803	I am a little surprised that when you sit out in the municipalities and have to make budgets and you have been told in advance that you have to find a saving of 1%, a total of 2.4 billion. kr. for the municipalities, will not recognise that it is actually less money than what you had in the past. Then it is true when the Minister says that a billion has been given. kr. In dignity billions, but in case I give my son 1 kroner. And then take the crown again tomorrow, has my son got more money, or does he have the same money? It is a relatively simple question, because it is the world in which the municipalities stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163842	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163844	I can start by repeating that it is simply a myth that the re-priority contribution means that the municipalities have less funding for services, because that is simply not correct. This government has just chosen to give priority to health and the elderly, and that is why we are promising a billion. kr. extra in the form of the dignity billion. We are now giving priority to an action plan for the elderly medical patient of 1.2 billion. kr., which is also very much targeted to the municipalities, we make a national dementia action plan for just under 0.5 billion. kr., and we arrange to introduce permanent doctors to nursing homes. That is how I could mention a series of initiatives that we are in the process of implementing in the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163924	Thank you. The question is closed. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 13 and welcomes the Minister for the Environment and Food. The questioner is sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163937	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511163937-2	Thank you. Does the Minister find it consistent with the spirit and letter of Paragraph 68 of the Constitution that Christian Danes indirectly support a foreign religion through halal certification fees and that it is almost impossible to avoid it, as it is difficult for Danish consumers to buy meat which is certainly not halal-slaughtered, since halal-slaughtered meat products are not necessarily halal-marked?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511164001	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511164002	Thank you for that President and thank you for a good and relevant question. Unlike my good colleague, the Minister of Justice, I am not a lawyer, but a theologian, and according to section 68 of the Constitution I cannot help but notice that no company is obliged to pay for the certification, because it takes place in a voluntary scheme of which the state is not a part. In relation to worship and the reference to Christian Danes in the question, it is fortunate for Christian Danes that since Mark chapter 7, verse 14, no Christian has been subjected to a ban on eating, for, as Jesus says, do you not understand that everything that enters a person from outside cannot defile it, for it does not enter the heart, but into the stomach, and it gets out again? Thus he declares all kinds of food pure, and ergo we Christians can eat just what we want, without affecting our own religiousness, whether the slaughter is halal, chaste or ordinary, and it is a huge freedom which means that we do not have to worry about religious regulations in connection with slaughter. Should there still be consumers who want to avoid halal-certified meat, it is actually possible. The larger Danish poultry establishments have, for example: detailed information about the slaughter methods they use on their websites.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511164123	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511164125	Thank you for the answer, which was both spiritual and secular. As I understand it, the EU system prohibits Member States from imposing labelling requirements on slaughter methods. Does the Minister consider this to be a liberal principle? Is it consumer friendly? And does the Minister in general agree with that rule?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511164154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511164155	Thank you for the question. After all, we are following general legislation in relation to labelling, and I have no particular desire to change it. We in the government are concerned that consumers can make obvious and clear choices, and some are opposed to halal-certified meat, others are not, and the free choice is in the Danes' hands, and I think that is entirely in line with the principles of the European principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511164224	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511164225	I don't think I got so much smarter, but just to rewind what was said in the first place, it is absolutely correct that Christian Danes and other Danes have the freedom to choose to eat what they want. But that must also mean that you have the freedom and perhaps even the right to opt out of something you do not want, and there it is that I and a number of other Danes have very, very difficult to navigate in the halal jungle, if we are to call it that. For a great many of the meat products and other products, which are actually halal products, are not exactly labelled with the halal mark, which is why it is very easy to go wrong in the city. Well, even if you choose a bull fillet that doesn't have the halal mark, it might quite well be halal-slaughtered anyway. Is that okay with the Minister? Will the Minister not help to ensure the consumer's free choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511164320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511164321	Thank you for the question. That depends very much on how to understand freedom. I see myself as being liberated from the fact that some meat has been slaughtered in one way or another or another, because it has no relation to the Christian religion, which the questioner addresses in his question. And that is why there are no Danes, whether you are an atheist or a Christian, who are subject to something in relation to a particular method of slaughter, which exercises an involuntary attitude against you. After all, I am not shredded by eating a particular piece of meat slaughtered according to a particular method, because that is not something that concerns me. For example, if you want to ban halal slaughter, I understand that there is a matter to fight, because you would like to have a ban on that, but it is never something that can affect the individual consumer and his freedom, whether there is meat that for some has one meaning and for some others a different meaning. I know that this is a good symbolic political battle for some, as it is to fight about it with halal, but I am merely making the premise in relation to the degree of freedom, because it is certainly not relevant there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511164433	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511164434	Well, now I don't understand at all. Because the degree of freedom is also the right to be free of anything, and because the Minister or others may want to eat halal-slaughter meat and have no problems with it, it does not make me and some other people want to be less free of it, and that is the group I am addressing with my question. Why should it be so difficult, not to say impossible, to avoid halal-slaughter meat if that is what consumers want?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511164504	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511164505	I have great respect for the fact that there are some who may have a desire not to eat halal meat or German meat. That is entirely up to the individual, and that is also why, for example, that. the poultry producers have information on their website on the slaughter method in question. I just think it is important in relation to the original question, which was, of course, that a religion was supported, to say that I do not recognise that principle. In Denmark there is freedom of religion, and to the extent that some have a desire to eat, for example, halal-slaughtered meat or, for the Jews, Schæchtet meat, I am of the opinion that they should have the opportunity to do so, just as Christians and atheists can be free from it by, for example, informing themselves about what meat they are buying, among other things. on the manufacturers' websites.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511164553	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the author. That concludes the question. As previously announced, Question No 1 is deleted. 14 and 15 at the request of the author. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511164610	The debate is open. The first to speak is Mrs Annette Lind as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511164633	This bill has come about on the basis of a two-party agreement. It is the case that the government and the KL have made this agreement on the basis of a desire from the KL to have greater freedom to organise education for the many refugee children who are already across the border, that is, children who have crossed our borders. We are in an extraordinary situation with a high number of refugees and much-pressed municipalities in this area. Of course, we take this situation seriously in the Social Democratic Party, and we also support the Danish model of agreement where municipalities and government can find solutions together, and that is the result of Bill L 190. At the same time, however, we do not understand the fact that it has been tabled outside the conciliation circle. We really would have liked to have been involved at first, and at the same time we are also concerned that this bill is outside the primary school law. However, we support the municipalities in that they have a desire for this and that they want to provide training for the refugee students in the established reception classes that already exist. In fact, we think it would be preferable to use the existing reception classes which already exist within the primary school law. Nor do we think that it should become a general practice to simply put forward legislative proposals in the field of school outside the conciliation circle and outside the primary school law. That is why, of course, we have also made a number of demands on the original draft law. First of all, we want the law to be temporary. This is a temporary situation we are in, and the law must also reflect that it is a temporary situation. We accept that this is an exceptional situation and that is why we have also been given a sunset clause and a mid-term review, so that the law is repealed after five years and there is a mid-term review after just over two and a half years. Furthermore, we have a number of improvements in relation to this bill that we have also received, and it is about wanting special offers, so that it should be closely related to an existing school. It can be a primary school, a 10th grade or an upper secondary school. Because it's important that the special offer has a very, very close connection with this primary school, so that you can make a more smooth transition to the class in primary school and again to youth education. We want all school offers to take responsibility, including the free and private schools, and then, of course, you have to be part of this school offer as a responsible school. We suggest that all parts of the education system cooperate and cooperate with the municipalities to find the solutions to provide the best opportunities for the children and young people concerned. In addition, we want the offer to be established across municipal boundaries, so that you can work together across this municipality border. Of course, we also need competent staff, so that is also one of the demands we have made here, and there it has to be the case that this staff is following the law of free school. This bill should give municipalities more flexibility and the opportunity to address the major challenges of the extraordinary situation. But this should not mean that it is a fundamental dispute with our principles and the basis of primary school, because first and foremost, we believe that primary school should be preferred. That is why the evaluation and the statutory expiry date are a prerequisite for our being able to vote in favour. Finally, we are aware that the special provision for primary education is a temporary possibility for the municipalities and that the teaching must be in line with what is generally required in primary school. We have an expectation that the government will ensure that. With the above comments, the Socialists support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511165024	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511165030	Thank you. The Socialists want to integrate refugees and turn them into immigrants. But if you are a social democrat, you have to assume that you want to have good integration. All actors who know about this say that this creates poor integration. This is because the bill says that there should be no teacher-trained employee; it says that instead of three grade, you can have five grade pupils, that is the difference; and you can have up to 18 pupils instead of 12 as today. So how on earth can the Social Democrats say yes to this when it creates poor integration, when the asylum children come out with poorer knowledge, and in a situation where the folk schools are struggling with inclusion, with less preparation time for teachers and with a reform of primary school? The Danish children will suffer as well as the asylum children. What are you doing, Social Democrats?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511165136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511165137	As far as I know, DF is in favour of allowing free schools to recruit teachers who are not teachers. It is exactly the same thing that applies here. We are calling for qualified staff to be here. It may be that these children are so traumatized that they have to have a psychologist; it may be better with a social educator; it may be better with a teacher for a period of time. But, of course, I also prefer it to be teacher-educated to take care of this. Of course, the municipality has to supervise this. It has to match what else is going on in primary school. However, as far as I know, and the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party can answer that himself, DF believes that it should be possible to have teachers in free schools who are not teacher-educated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511165221	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511165223	[Sound emission]... The rapporteur has bought the arguments of the Minister of Education. It's about asylum kids who bring trauma to the country. A poll or a survey has been made among the mayors. Nine out of ten in the mayor's survey say that it will have a negative impact on the integration of asylum children. How on earth can the rapporteur for the Socialists say yes to this and say that is something the municipalities want?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511165253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511165253-2	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, I fully support the mayors who want to make use of existing offers within the primary school law. There is no doubt that I think it would be best. This is a wish from KL, and it is therefore a wish that you have to have some freedom because we are in an extraordinary situation. That is the only reason why we think we should do it. It is to help the municipalities here so that they get better integration. Of course, we must ensure that it is a good education for the children who come to our country, and even if it stays outside the primary school law, it is a wish of the KL. So if it's the case that almost all the mayors say they won't use this offer, then you have to say to KL: Do you really have your members in control?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511165336	The next question is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511165340	Thank you. I am here perhaps a little unusual • completely agree with my colleague from DF with regard to the integration issue. I simply do not understand the Socialists' reasoning in supporting this bill. Now the rapporteur himself mentions that it is a wish of the KL and that it is therefore supported. There are so many consultation parties who warn against this bill, and it is all those organisations that know the best interests of children and the well-being of children. Doesn't it make any impression on the Social Democrats that the Children's Conditions, the Children's Council, the Danish Teachers' Association, the Danish Psychologist Association and School and Parents, and I could continue to oppose this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511165427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511165428	We listen a lot to these consultation parties, and we have also talked to a lot of them. What this is about is that it is part of a two-party agreement. We respect the Danish model of agreement. There is no doubt that when you agree something according to the Danish model, the Socialists listen as a responsible party, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511165447	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511165448	Is there no limit to when you do not listen to the Danish model? If an agreement had been reached on the labour market, which agreed to reduce the minimum wage by DKK 10, would the Socialists also listen in that case? Are there no cases in which it is assessed professionally, politically and in terms of content and says: this is simply too bad an agreement for us to support it politically, despite the fact that it is an agreement made as part of the Danish model? Are there no limits to the Social Democrats?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511165514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511165516	First of all, this bill is a proposal for a temporary law, because it must be repealed. We've had a sunset clause made. We have made a number of demands which have been met: it must be in close association with a primary school; it must be the case that you can work across; it must be competent staff; it must be the case that everyone takes responsibility. Free and private schools have also said that they really want to be involved in this because, as it is today, they do not have the chance to help in this area. There are a number of requirements that have been met, so it has improved. Then you have to remember that this has to match what's going on in primary school. The municipalities have a responsibility for this, and of course we have an expectation that KL, when we help KL with this, will also keep its municipalities on a short leash.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511165558	The next question is Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511165602	Thank you. I would like to ask a little more about the question of teacher qualifications. Do I understand correctly that the rapporteur believes that when it comes to refugee children, who may have been unable for a long period of time to receive education, so that there can be very dispersed approaches to starting school; when you can now cover not three but five different years; when you can go from 12 to 18 pupils, exactly in this situation there is not a special need for teachers, but rather for other qualifications? Would the rapporteur not like to elaborate on why exactly the situation does not require the competences of teacher training?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511165650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511165651	As a teacher, you'll never get me to say that it's not best to have a teacher trained to teach, because of course it is. So here we are in an extraordinary situation. We also know that we need teachers around our country. I live in Vestjylland, and in Ringkøbing-Skjern Municipality 50 non-teachers are employed in teacher positions. How are we going to find teachers for all these refugee children who are now coming in? Thus, at times, 5,000 people cross the border every month. I think, of course, that they should be teacher-educated if they can be, but I can also see the point that you can do it this way; there may be a need for a psychologist, and it may be better for a period of time it is a psychologist or a social educator who is there. I think, of course, that we should ensure that this educational offer is appropriate, and that is why we have also said, as one of our demands, that there should be qualified staff, and it will be the same as with the free school law. As far as I know, Enhedslisten also thinks that it is quite okay in the open school area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511165754	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511165756	But I am simply wondering why there might be more need for psychologists or social educators. Well, I fully recognise that there may be a special need for this, just as there may be in some contexts in our primary school. But I do not understand why there should be a lower requirement for teaching qualifications than there is for ordinary teaching. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur: if we are to be exempt from the provisions on hours of education, the classes of primary school, the purpose of education, the qualification requirements of primary school, the formation of teams and the size of classes, does the rapporteur think that there is a better school offer for the children of refugees than there is today, or that there is a lower school offer for the children of refugees than what is available today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511165844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511165845	We are faced with an extraordinary situation in which we have had a great many, and it is not the case that we can just wait or try what to do. These kids have crossed our borders, and our primary schools can't take them as they are right now. That's why KL has asked for a freer framework to do this. We make a number of demands for it to be a better offer than what was originally intended. We want the primary school to measure up to what it is. We want there to be requirements, just as there are for the free schools, for the staff you hire. I think that we are putting a lot of things at risk here, while saying that this is an extraordinary situation that it reflects. And it is a time-limited law that is repealed without any discussion with the sunset clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511165934	The next question is Mrs Marianne Jelved, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511165938	Thank you. There was a report in Kristi's Holiday in various media from Lolland, where there is a small free school with some eighty children. The school had taken in 36 refugee children and had them for two months. It had been a very, very demanding task to get to grips with how you are in a school. One of the things that had been really good in this context was that there were other children who knew what it meant to attend a Danish primary school. So the learning between the children, who are Danish, and the children of refugees, we lose in the course that is here. That is why we are faced with a huge challenge with the children of refugees who come into the new basic education programmes. How are they to learn from Danish children when they are not with Danish children?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511170039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511170040	It is precisely for this reason that we have also called for the free and private schools to take responsibility here, because we believe that there is enormous potential in the free and private schools. I have, of course, had meetings with them since we started talking about this bill, and they have, of course, taken the lead in taking responsibility here too. And I think that is extremely positive. We have a huge potential that can be exploited here. It is clear that if they live in an area where there is a free school, then it would be great, great if they could enter the free school and be with the children there in this educational offer. That is why we also write that it should be closely related to a school, and here we mean of course all types of school.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511170112	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511170119	I know that the Minister for Education has set out a target figure called 700 refugee children in free schools. After all, these are relatively many, because they do not necessarily lie in the municipalities where there are many refugees. But how are 700 children to take up the assignment on behalf of thousands of children? After all, only a small part of the refugee children that we expect will be able to attend a free school. What about the others?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511170155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511170157	I think Mrs Marianne Jelved has just said so herself. There's gonna be a lot, a lot. We can't take them all into the schools. That is why an extraordinary offer is needed, and we will have to have it for a period of time. It's also the case that this offer doesn't last more than two years, and then you have to be out. And when we say that it has to be in close association with the schools, we mean it clearly because it is the case that you might have some cooperation in some subjects or something while you are in this offer, so we are just facilitating it so that you can get into an ordinary primary school or a free school or a private school. I think it should reflect that this is an extraordinary situation that we need, because KL likes to see it because they don't think they can solve it in any other way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511170240	The next question is Mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511170245	We talk a lot about integration and good integration. Normally, SF and Social Democracy have many common positions on how to create good integration. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur believes that it promotes good integration, that children are placed in special educational provision without the requirement of teacher qualifications, without the requirement of how high the class ceiling may be, without the requirement of the content to be taught. Does the rapporteur believe that this will promote the good integration of these children?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511170317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511170319	I completely disagree with what Mr. Jacob Mark says in this context. It is, of course, a qualified educational offer. Teachers are required, they have to measure up to what they have in the free schools. There are a whole range of requirements that must be met here. I said in the first place that I think we should take the established offers, if at all possible, into the primary school reception classes. There is no doubt that I think that if you can do it within the primary school law, you should do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511170354	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511170355	Let's compare it to free schools and say that okay, then the same quality. What is of course the advantage of free schools is that parents have a choice. Parents can say that they want to have their child in free school, but if they no longer want to, they can say that they actually want to have their child in primary school, because it says in the constitution that they can. Does the rapporteur consider that the same law applies in this draft law? What if parents do not think that the right offer to the child is the special educational offer? Does the child have the right to attend a primary school, according to the Basic Law, where it says that everyone has the right to be in the Danish primary school?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511170435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511170436	Of course, all children must have the right to attend primary school because it is the school of the people. That goes without saying. This just reflects an extraordinary situation. This is how we get a number of refugee children across our borders. We already have them, and it is the case that ordinary primary schools do not have the capacity to do so. According to KL, this is a wish because you can't handle it where you have the established offers right now. Therefore, we believe that when you make a proper offer, it must be in line with the primary school law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511170513	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next speaker in line is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511170525	Thank you, President. What is the situation today? Foreign children come into reception classes to learn Danish before they are slushed into primary school. Those classes must have no more than 12 pupils, span three classes and must comply with the primary school law. The agreement that has been reached, which is then reflected in the legislative proposal, is something quite different. The class ceiling is raised to 15, and if you have the same linguistic background to 18, then the class span must be five instead of three. In the eyes of the Danish People's Party, the bill is somewhat sloppy and we would recommend that everyone vote no. And not only that it is somewhat sloppy; it is also done bypassing the public school circle like the law on municipal international schools in the last period, which the Social Democrats stood for. So the Socialists are actually as they have made. They have done what the government is doing now. The law speaks of bilingual, but all foreign children are meant by residence permits. This means that asylum seekers in asylum centres are not covered. They're under the alien law. Only when they come out of the asylum centres are they covered, but then you are not bilingual. Teachers should not be teacher-educated, but just live up to some loose wordings about pedagogical competences, and the teaching does not even follow the primary school law. And not only do they pay for transportation between the offer and the home. Try to think: You come to Denmark from a very poor country, and the first thing you get is taxi driving to an offer. That's a strange way of integrating. There are some advantages to that bill. There is. Of course, the advantages are that the municipalities save money. That's what this is about. It's about saving money. And then it is about the municipalities having to solve a task that the government and the majority of the Folketing will not solve, namely to ensure that not so many come to the country. The disadvantages are very clear. Foreign children receive poorer Danish education. Of course, Danish children will suffer in the classes. Why? Teachers in primary schools are already struggling with inclusion, less preparation time and reform of primary school, and now they are also going to receive asylum children with poorer Danish education. Of course it is more expensive for the municipalities with the current offers, but the question is whether it is the municipalities that have to solve this for the government. We don't think so. In fact, the bill is neither bird nor fish. If you are in favour of integration, such as, for example, for example. The Socialists, then, should vote 'no' because it leads to less integration, as children receive poorer education. There's no teacher-educated labor. The people who are hired have no skills and no experience in that subject. If you are against integration, you should also vote against the bill, because the asylum children do not get the skills they really should have when they go home. What, then, should be done instead? In the Danish People's Party we are actually very clear. In fact, we believe that this is the task of the state. It's not up to the municipalities to solve this. The solution is, of course, that children receive training in the asylum centres or in the state centres that we want to set up. There they stay until they return home with the family or a refugee camp in the neighborhood. See, it'll be responsible politics. But what you do with that bill is let the municipalities take responsibility for a failed refugee and migration policy. Then I understand from the Socialists that they are extremely proud of the things they have brought in, namely a sunset clause. And then you're also proud that KL has actually entered into a two-party agreement. The two-party agreement is respected. I would just like to refer to the survey that has been carried out. Nine out of ten mayors say that the bill will have a negative impact on integration. So they are also Social Democratic mayors. It's mayors who know what this is about. It's not a little socialist clique sitting in here dreaming that you can get better integration with this bill. You don't get that. That is why I should just once again call on the Socialists to vote against the bill. If the Social Democrats get their act together, it'll fall. But I can almost understand that I speak for the deaf.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511171025	Thank you. There are some brief comments. The first question is Mrs Annette Lind, Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511171030	Thank you. That was quite a reprimand. It is understandable that the Danish People's Party is not a government-responsible party. This is part of a two-party agreement, it's part of an agreement based on the Danish agreement model. Does the Danish People's Party have any respect for the Danish model of agreement? And is it the case that the Danish People's Party thinks, when agreements are made between KL and the government, that you should follow them or dare to make some of the tough decisions?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511171107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511171107-2	In other words, what the rapporteur says here is not related. We're in the Folketing now, we're taking a position on a bill. Because there's an agreement between the KL and the government, that doesn't mean we're a rubber stamp. But I understand that the so-called responsible party acts as rubber stamp. We are politicians, we are legislators, and if we in the Danish People's Party are dissatisfied with a bill, then we say no to it. Because this is a poor bill, whether you're for or against integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511171147	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511171149	So it was a 'yes' that you are not a responsible party that will take government responsibility. That is how I would like to ask the rapporteur what alternative he sees in this. Because it is the case that you cannot capture them in the Danish primary school as it is right now. I would like to ask whether you think that you should just send them out into the ordinary classes as it is now, and then just allow them to be included in ordinary teaching. What's the alternative, and you just have to send them out?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511171217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511171218	I understand from the Socialists that they are the government's firm support party and are proud of it. I have replied to what we really think is a solution, in my rapporteur's speech, if the rapporteur had listened, and that is that refugees should of course remain in refugee villages or state centres. There must then also be an educational offer, so that they have some competences when they return home. That is what I said in my rapporteur's speech, and I repeat it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511171250	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511171254	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Danish People's Party is voting against this proposal, and I am also glad that the Danish People's Party can see that if you are actually looking to promote integration in this country, you will of course also vote no. However, I am a little concerned about the motivations of the Danish People's Party to vote against this proposal, and I would like to ask a few questions about that. The fact that all refugee children are to sit in asylum centres is something I would really like to see deepened, and we are talking about many thousands of refugee children: do you imagine that they should just sit in asylum centres? Can they come out and meet other schoolchildren in Denmark? Should you cooperate with primary and secondary schools in general? How does the Danish People's Party imagine this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511171338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511171339	Thank you for an excellent question. Education must take place at the state centres we would like to set up. The children of asylum are not going to the primary schools, they are not going to the classes. That is the way we want to solve the problems. We do not think it is the municipalities that should solve this huge migration crisis that we are witnessing. We think it is quite wrong to use the public schools to do this task and to use the municipalities to solve this task. It is, of course, gratifying that the Socialist People's Party is also voting 'no', even though it is for quite another reason, as I understand it, because the SF wants to integrate these refugee children and therefore they are voting against it. This is, of course, an objective argument which, unfortunately, the Socialists have not understood, even though all the players have tried to give the Socialists the knowledge that they really know about this, but our argument is of course different, and that is that we are not in favour of the integration of refugees, which we would rather see returning to their country of origin or to refugee camps in the neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511171447	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511171449	Thank you. So a follow-up question, and it's not rhetorical, it's actually out of curiosity: Does the Danish People's Party think that the children can get out of the centers at all, so, do they have to go on a tour of local towns and such things? And the second part is the statistics that show that a war like that in Syria typically takes up to 10-15 years, that is, if you look at the wars from which we have otherwise received refugees: Does the Danish People's Party imagine that from the very day the child is born, or at least throughout the child's child's life, a child should be in the asylum centre without having contact, perhaps not professionally or educationally, with Danish children?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511171525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511171526	It is easy to establish cooperation agreements between schools. They just shouldn't go to public schools, that's not where they're supposed to be. And then we are also aware that there are conflicts that last for a very long time, and that is why we imagine that the families will live in camps nearby and that the men will follow the women and children back. We think it is a misguided policy to use the municipalities and the primary school to solve a migration task.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511171600	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next speaker is Mrs Anni Matthiesen as rapporteur on the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511171612	Thank you, President. In connection with the examination of Bill No. L 190 on municipal special offers of primary education for certain foreign children and young people vote for the bill. After all, the draft law must be seen in the light of the extraordinary situation we are in, where a great many refugees have crossed the border and therefore also a great many refugee children. It has of course also put a lot of pressure on Denmark, it has put a lot of pressure on the municipalities, among others. In relation to their task of providing these courses. Therefore, the government has also listened to the wishes of KL in the two-party negotiations, and in view of the situation we are in, an agreement has been reached with KL to create a better framework for municipal integration efforts. There is a tradition that the government can conclude two-party agreements with KL, and in the situation we are in here, KL has actually sought more flexible frameworks in order to integrate new children and young people into primary school. It is a wish that we have chosen to listen to in the Left. That is why, of course, I am a little surprised that there may be parties that are opposed to these agreements, which themselves have members and representatives on KL's board of directors. I have to say that I have heard representatives from, among others. The Radicals, who have been positive about this action, and I have to say that for that matter I have not heard that DF's representative on the KL's board of directors has been against the proposal here. The bill is intended to improve local communities' ability to organise basic school provision for these new arrivals locally in line with local priorities and needs. With the bill, we create a learning and learning environment that takes into account pupils' professional and social competences. And the many new bilingual children and young people do not necessarily get any benefit from being taught in an ordinary class because they cannot properly Danish, so it is clear that you have to create some more flexible opportunities, and that is what many municipalities have asked for, and that is why they have chosen to meet their wishes. But in order for the municipalities too to be able to tackle these challenges, it requires us to act, and the government has chosen to do so, and on the basis of these conditions, of course, we are voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511171916	Thank you. There are some brief comments, and the first questioner is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511171922	Thank you. This proposal envisages the creation of special educational opportunities to exclude refugee children, and it is exciting on a day when we have spoken a great deal of inclusion, and how we ensure the good inclusion of special educational offers, where no real requirements are made for who is to teach them, what they should be taught and how large the classes must be. There are some of the hearings that go on whether this is a breach of the Constitution. In fact, I am usually quite careful to draw this constitutional card, but when I am worried here, it is because the constitution clearly states that all children are entitled to primary education. It is a right to receive primary education. But with this proposal, these refugee children are being deprived of the right to do so. So does the rapporteur think that this proposal is a breach of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511172022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511172023	I can reassure the SF rapporteur that I do not believe this is a breach of the Constitution. As is also written into the bill, you have to have a connection, including with a school. I have to say that I hope that, for that matter, the vast majority of municipalities will choose to make use of some of the existing reception classes around the primary school, but I also hope that free schools will receive more refugee children, which has been a good debate in the media in recent weeks. So I am not as nervous as the SF's rapporteur says I am.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511172103	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511172105	Then I'd like to ask you something. When the free schools were mentioned, it can be said that it is the case, as I said earlier in the debate, that parents of children coming to a free school make an active choice. The choice is for children to go to a free school for one reason or another. If you then regret that choice, or if you suddenly think that you want something else, then you can send your children to primary school because it says in the constitution that the children are entitled to a place in the Danish primary school. These refugee children's parents have some of them not parents, they're unaccompanied. They don't have that choice. Will one somehow forward-looking in the process ensure that, if they actively want to, they can get into a reception class in primary school?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511172140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511172142	I can say that just last Monday I discussed this with the president of the free schools. The free schools also have a great desire to take greater social responsibility when it comes to receiving more refugees. However, as the President said, it is of course necessary for them to point out first of all that they are there. Because you cannot expect refugees who come here to know what a free school is at all. It cannot be expected that parents are aware that this is an option they actually have. So it requires information, including from free schools, to be able to draw attention to themselves. So I would say that in relation to being attached to a school, to a primary school or to a free school, you have the close contact, for that matter too, if it is to a primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511172233	The next question is Mrs Marianne Jelved, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511172237	It is very, very remarkable that the Left, as a party in my view, is now breaking for the first time what has been the established basic rule of Danish society, namely that everyone has the right to attend the public school, but that there is no compulsory schooling. Now you're creating a whole new situation. Now there are, in fact, some basic educational services that become a duty, a compulsory school because parents do not have an option. It is also not certain that parents have an option for a free school. It depends entirely on whether the municipal council will pay for what it costs, because it is not expected from the Left that the refugee families themselves will have to pay for the free school.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511172337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511172338	First of all, I think I need to say that it may well be that the Radical Left rapporteur believes that we do not have a particular situation and that there is no need to create a new system. But I do think that the situation we are in is a new situation. At any rate, it is many, many years since we have been in the situation that we have so many refugees that we also have to deal with in terms of education. Then I have to say that I still think these parents have an option too. But it is clear that it takes time. One cannot expect them to know what kind of school structure we have for the first week of their arrival in this country. Of course, it takes information before these parents, too, find out how to make choices.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511172431	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511172432	I am very surprised that it sounds as if all refugee children who come here have the opportunity to make a free choice. That's not my impression. What is central here is the introduction of a special offer, a special scheme outside the framework of the primary school law, in order to achieve greater flexibility. The Radical Left would have liked to have negotiated greater flexibility within the framework of the primary school. You could have chosen that, just as you have done now, but within the framework of primary school. But now you break with the entire Danish school-historical tradition and introduce compulsory schooling.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511172515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511172516	But I still want to say that I am also surprised that the Radical Left is not supporting this. I am particularly surprised because I know that, among other things, there is a problem. representatives of the Radical Left sit on the KL's board of directors, who have spoken warmly in order to have a more flexible framework. I am therefore surprised that the Radical Left in Christiansborg is apparently not listening to their hinterland in KL.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511172543	The next question is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511172547	Thank you. In his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur said that this draft law must improve the framework of local authorities in order to carry out the integration task. It is certainly true that it gives some more freedom to the municipalities in relation to it, but I would like to ask the rapporteur what is most important for the Left: Is it the most important that the municipalities have a better and more flexible framework to carry out this task, or does consideration for the best interests and well-being of the children, as we can see from the consultation answers that do not become skeleton enough in this bill, the hardest? What is it that weighs most heavily on the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511172626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511172627	Both. I don't think you can do it that way. I think it is very important that we also ensure the well-being of children. The municipalities have also asked for this because in some situations they also have children who need adults other than teachers. There have been municipalities that have explained that sometimes you can also have children who need psychologists who are close to you in order to deal with the situation and, for that matter, what they bring in their luggage. That is why they have demanded greater flexibility, a freer framework, and perhaps it is precisely to ensure that these children will thrive better.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511172708	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511172709	I am simply not buying that paragraph. According to my knowledge, there is nothing to prevent the primary schools today from bringing in psychologists if needed, and this applies both to refugee children in the reception classes and to the Danish children in the ordinary primary school classes. So I just don't buy that argument. However, if the rapporteur says that both are equally important and you look at the consultation answers, where perhaps out of 40 hearing answers there are 4 supporting the bill while the rest are against, then I do not understand how the Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511172743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511172743-2	Well, I can say that we can, and we can assume that this is a completely extraordinary situation. Sometimes I am worried that because the walls here at Christiansborg are so thick, you cannot keep up with what is actually happening outside, i.e. what is really happening. We're in a special situation. The municipalities have been asking for this because they are under pressure, and they need these flexible frameworks, and we've been listening to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511172814	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next speaker in line is Mr. Jakob Silverhøj as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511172827	Thank you. The proposal before us to make a special law on the education of certain foreign children is, in the Enhedslisten, an exceptionally bad proposal. We believe that the proposal is on the verge of the constitution, we believe that the proposal is discriminatory, we believe that the proposal would unfairly reduce school education for refugee children, we believe it would harm integration, and we believe that it would create general problems for many other children, both in our primary schools and in the free schools, if a group of children were to be integrated there after a period of as much as two years in a school offer of significantly inferior quality. As several others have said, I find that we are in line with a large number of organisations and associations that warn against the consequences of the government's proposals in their response, but it is evident that it is more important to create flexibility, as it is so beautifully called, while in reality it is about the cost-cutting of school provision for refugee children weighing far more heavily than the best interests of children and the quality of education. It's sad, and I'm also thinking that if you can afford to say it, it's stupid. In this way, even from an economic point of view, it may well be possible to save short-term expenses in the municipalities. At least that is what the draft law says • but we have received a very recent report from the Danish Teachers' Association, which the Norwegian Minister of Knowledge has prepared, which shows that, indeed, it is very expensive to ensure proper education for refugee children, but on the other hand it is extremely expensive to ensure that children are not taught that they have good opportunities for their further education and that they have a good starting point for subsequent entry into the labour market. As I mentioned at the outset, we believe that the proposal here is at odds with the constitution. As several of the authors have already pointed out, Section 76 of the Constitution states that all children of compulsory education are entitled to free education in primary school. It is therefore a basic democratic right which, in the view of the Enhedslisten, it is not possible to deprive children of children without being at odds with the constitution. The text states in the Constitution that parents have a freedom to choose. As you know, there is no public school obligation in this country, nor should there be, because there is a freedom for parents to choose another school offer: a free school, a private school, which is a freedom to teach children at home. But what is at the heart of the matter is that the text of the constitution states that children have a right to a primary school offer, and so it simply cannot be right that the bill states that the municipal council can refer bilingual children and young people of compulsory education to a special offer of primary education. We believe in the Enhedslisten that it is contrary to the right to free education in the primary school, and I have observed the peculiarity of the debate we have had up to the legislative proposal, that it has actually been stated from ministerial level that the fact that the offer is not covered by the primary school law does not mean that it is not a public school offer. We even had to hear in consultation that there may well be two primary schools, one which includes primary school legislation and one which is not covered by it. I think that maybe, although it is not said so clearly in the legislative notes, it is also why it has been chosen to emphasize the general nature of the term "general school provision" to emphasise that we can therefore have two types of primary schools here in the country, one covered by primary school legislation and one that is not. I simply do not think it holds anywhere. Similarly, we believe that the proposal does not comply with the provisions of Article 22 of the Convention on Refugees. It states that, in the case of elementary education, Member States must treat refugees in the same way as those of their own nationals. However, this proposal does not guarantee exactly the same treatment for refugee children, because the draft law explicitly states that the special municipal school offer should not be covered by, for example, a school offer. provisions on class sizes and qualification requirements for teachers. In order to enable municipalities to save on school provision for refugee children, it is therefore possible to provide a school offer of less quality and therefore opens up the possibility, as laid down in the Convention's provision, that in the case of basic education there is no need to provide refugee children with the same treatment as other children. This is discriminatory and, in the view of the Enhedslisten, it is contrary to the Convention. Finally, having said that on all the legal issues, I find it quite incomprehensible that a proposal should be put forward which would so openly oppose the integration of the children covered by the special school provision. We know it will be children who have a special need for support to get their schooling going well in this country, we know it is many who have been unable for a long time to attend school at all, we know that there can be a great deal of traumatised children, but yet both administratively and administratively, it is well that there will be deterioration in the reception classes, so that in future there will be up to 18 children in a reception class exciting over five classes against today 12 children exciting over three classes, and in addition, in order to add spot to harm in addition to lowering the conditions in the reception classes open to this special school offer, which will provide a lower quality than the offers available today. It is obscene to children, it is bad for integration, and it is socio-economicly creepy short-sighted. The Enhedslisten cannot recommend the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511173510	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511173523	Liberal Alliance supports the L 190 motion we are now debating. It is without the great joy and enthusiasm that we do so. This is a pragmatic approach to an extremely big challenge, which means that we support the government's proposals. We recognise that reservation, for example. in Denmark's Teachers Association, when it is said that there is a risk that the quality of some of these offers will fall below the quality offered in primary school. The possibility is there, it may actually happen that the level is getting a little lower. But it doesn't have to be that way. It is also possible to organise the teaching well, so that students at different ages get a good introduction to Danish society and learn Danish in a good way. In 2015, Denmark, assuming family reunification, received up to 35,000 asylum seekers. It's an extreme situation. It's the equivalent of a Danish provincial town. That is too many, it is too many, and it is many more than we can give proper integration, and it is also more than we can properly support in our social system, without it having a high cost for citizens who are already in Denmark, no matter where they originally come from. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance are saying that an asylum freeze must be introduced, because it is too violent now that there are too many people on migration. There is also the fact that by using the resources in Denmark, we cannot help as well locally. Just on our asylum system we spend up to 11 billion. kr. That's way too much a year. If we spent just a fraction of that resources helping local people, we could help many more, both children and adults. There must be school provision, there must be housing, but there are therefore some very long-term problems with underemployment. Statistically speaking, this does not apply to all people who are over-represented in terms of violence and rape and anti-democracy. So it will cause some very, very big upheaval for our society that we take on as many as we do at the moment. What we are dealing with now is the school offer, and we are facing a challenge in terms of raising democracy. It is not an easy task; it is a very difficult task to raise to democracy and it is not something the school can do alone. The school can't do this if the parents too don't play along. It requires support, whether you're talking about a private school or a free school. So these are some big assignments you've got out there. We want to give the municipalities the opportunity to have these flexible offers, and we expect that they are doing as well as they can at all, and that they have a great focus on democratic education, which is crucial for these children and young people to do well in Danish society. When it comes to private and free schools, we want to give the opportunity for more children to choose. We will not accept the imposition of coercion on private free schools. This should not be done in relation to asylum, and it should not be done in relation to any of the other agendas that a government can once have. No number shall be added, no percentage shall be applied. The responsibility of private schools is therefore a civil society responsibility which must grow from below. There is only just the number of parties needed to support the bill we are debating today, and it can be said that it is very easy to stand out, because it is also unpleasant to face this challenge. That is why I must say that I do not have the great respect that parties such as Radicals, Enhedslisten and the Alternative are refusing to accept a proposal like this, while at the same time saying that we must have a much more lenient foreign law in which we accept more asylum seekers. It doesn't add up at all. It is simply irresponsible to say that we can accept more than 35,000 in one year and at the same time offer a very high quality. It is simply not realistic and I think it is irresponsible. So we must have an asylum stop, we must deal with the challenges we already have, we must ensure that democratic education is as good as possible, but there is a direct link between how many asylum seekers we take in and the quality we can offer. We just have to admit that. In those words, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511174035	It's first, sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511174038	Thank you. I know, of course, that the rapporteur is very fond of free schools and private schools, and I also agree with the rapporteur's comments that free schools and private schools should not be imposed on them. But I would like to hear: does the rapporteur agree with the view which I have at least that a parent in Denmark can choose for himself whether the parent's child should go to a free school or go to a primary school? Does the Constitution state that all children are entitled to free education in primary school?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511174113	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511174114	I simply do not think I understood the question. So, all children in Denmark are entitled to a free education offer, that is absolutely correct. And everyone has the right to choose a free school or private school, and there will typically be both a couple rate and a parental fee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511174134	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511174135	What it says is that all children are entitled to education, that is, if you do not want to go to a free school or if you do not want to go to a special educational offer, then you have a right, according to the basic law, to go to a primary school. And I would just like to ask quite clearly: now that the rapporteur is part of those who are voting for this proposal, will the rapporteur ensure that the refugee children who will be placed in special educational facilities, like parents who have children in free school, always have the opportunity to choose that they would rather go to primary school because that is their right?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511174210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511174212	What is stated in the Constitution and what is stated in reply 189 is that all children are entitled to a free education offer. All children are entitled to a free educational offer that is in line with the primary school. That is how I understand it, and that is what I am referring to in that reply, 189. I think that is quite good. And then there will probably also be the possibility that some municipalities will set up free spaces in free and private schools that want to receive asylum children, and we think that is very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511174244	Sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511174247	I can start by solving something. In fact, that is not what the rapporteur says in the constitution. It says that all children of compulsory education have the right to free education in primary school. That is what is at the heart of the question that has just been asked here. Is it the rapporteur's view that this is the wording of the right to free education in primary school? Is it the rapporteur's view that parents of refugee children can be denied a place in a primary school if they so wish?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511174325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511174326	As I said, as I understand the response from the government, and that is what I have to rely on, it is the case that every citizen in Denmark is entitled to a free educational offer that is in line with that of the primary school. That's what I'm referring to. I think it is very good that this is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511174347	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511174349	So that is not what the Constitution says. Now that I understand that the way Enhedslisten and other parties are acting is particularly irresponsible, because we are demanding high-quality educational services, I would just like to hear the rapporteur say something: is it the rapporteur's view that the educational provision that is now being given to refugee children with this bill has a lower quality than the offers that are currently due?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511174421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511174422	What I am saying, which I think is completely irresponsible, is that in the Enhedslisten and in the Alternative and in Radicals, more asylum seekers should be received in Denmark. There have been sharp opponents of the austerity measures that have been in place. We in the Liberal Alliance think that we should make an asylum stop because we cannot deal with so many people. We must only accept those we can actually support and integrate. And then we would like to spend many more resources helping locally, but we cannot do so when we are laid down by as many as come to Denmark. So I think that the coupling of saying that we can just accept some more and that we have to keep quality high is totally irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511174506	Then it is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511174508	What is being said by the rapporteur right now is total nonsense. Radical Left does not go around saying that we need more asylum seekers for Denmark. We say that we want the European Union to come up with a common solution so that we can control what is happening, with fixed external borders around the European Union, etc. etc. We also think that they can become too many, i.e. those who come to Europe and Denmark, but we would like to find solutions that are sustainable. Then I would ask the rapporteur to explain something. If this flexible arrangement had been made within the primary school framework, we would not have had the discussion about whether the new offer matches the primary school offer. Because it doesn't, because it would have been put in primary school. There must be something different that makes it cheaper to leave it outside primary school. Then you can't say they're equal. Impossible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511174605	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511174607	Well, I would say to Mrs Marianne Jelved that the Radicals have voted against austerity and against austerity, and then you can sit and hope that the European Union will do something. We also hope that the European Union will get its external border up, but hope is, as you know, bright green. So the consequence of Radicale's policy is that many more asylum seekers would have come to Denmark if Radicals had had the mandates that were crucial, and that would then have meant even greater pressure. That is what I think is irresponsible: at the same time, we can support a policy that leads to even more asylum seekers and at the same time say that quality should just be kept and be towering. It's not realistic.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511174656	Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511174658	After all, we have not looked at what it would look like if we made a flexible arrangement within the framework of the primary school. We haven't tried that at all. I have not discussed it with the Minister or with anyone else. It hasn't been on the drawing board at all. If you want to include Radicals in a project, it is a wise precaution to involve us from the outset so that we can stamp out what will then be the solution to it. We do not buy anything, as Mrs Merete Riisager apparently does.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511174731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511174733	What the hell am I gonna say to that? I'm not a minister now. I cannot say how I would have done it if I had been a minister, but I am not. It is the Minister for Education who is the minister and I think she is doing a very good job in general. We have accepted what has been put forward here. We think this is a difficult situation. We think it should have been handled differently than it was. We believe that we should put an end to asylum. That would mean we could take much better care of people. We have proposed 4 000 asylum seekers a year. This is much less than the 35,000 we accepted in 2015. If we did that, we would be able to make a much better offer to the citizens who are coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511174816	Thank you. We're moving a little outside the area. There are no more comments. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511174832	Thank you. I think I would like to start by saying that the whole talk of taking responsibility, which often comes out of the platform, is of interest, especially to the extent that you never subsequently mention exactly what you take responsibility for. I think this bill is a good example of that. I do not think that it takes responsibility for the well-being of children and for the best interests of children and for the integration that we have an obligation to promise in Denmark, as well as they do in the other European countries. In the alternative, we are deeply concerned about the consequences of this bill, and we are actually wondering what exactly it is that is the main argument behind the bill. The government writes in the proposal that it stems from increased pressure on the general municipal service on e.g. the school area because of the refugee situation. Therefore, the government and KL have concluded this agreement on the so-called better framework for the municipal integration effort, in which the possibility of these special offers is one of the initiatives. Then I'll just have to ask where it's better. Is it the case that the special offers do not have to live up to the primary school's teaching hours? Is that the fact that the offers aren't supposed to live up to the elementary school class? Is it the case that offers do not have to meet the primary school's qualification requirements for teachers? Or is it even because it is believed that isolating the children of refugees from Danish children offers better opportunities for integration? For the truth is, after all, that there is absolutely nothing better about this bill compared to the provisions that are in force today. It's not just something we mean in the alternative. Except KL, Dansk Industri, Dansk Arbejdsforening (Danish Employers' Association) and a few more, all the consultation parties are opposed to this bill. It is, I suppose, a very substantial consultation list. I have mentioned some of them. Among other things: is the Red Cross, Danish Teacher Association, Save the Children, Danish Psychologist Association, School and Parents, BUPL, School Leader Association, Children's Council, Children's Conditions, Free School Teacher Association, Denmark's Private School Association and more, who oppose this bill. Everyone is the recognised organisations with great gravity and credibility when it comes to a professional assessment of children's conditions and well-being. In addition, a dew fresh study from Epinion, as Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen said that 92 per cent. by the mayors who have been asked or the municipalities who have been asked; and most of them are at the mayor level saying that it will adversely affect the refugee children if they are isolated in special offers outside the primary school. 98% They also consider that the main reason not to create special offers outside the primary school is because the integration of refugee children is best carried out in close contact with Danish children. Nevertheless, the government insists on the bill. It just doesn't make any sense to us. And as if that is not enough, it has also been mentioned and there we very much agree that it is doubtful whether this bill complies with the UN Convention on Refugees. Sir. Jakob Silverhøj mentioned it, namely, Article 28 (1). 1. It states that the Contracting States must grant the refugees the same treatment as that accorded to their own nationals. I have asked the Minister for Education on this matter, in other words, whether the draft law is in line with the Convention. The Minister has replied that it does, because it is understood that refugee children must have the same access to free education as Danish children. But that is not what the Refugee Convention says. It says that refugee children must receive the same treatment as Danish children. So it is not the same as the same access to free treatment. I hope that the Minister will clarify to us why she sees that the two things mean the same thing. For me, that means two very different things. I have also asked the Minister about the research evidence and the international experience underlying this bill. To this the Minister has clearly replied that there was no intention of providing research evidence for the special offers. That's troubling. These are children we're dealing with. These are children who have fled war and misery. And the creation of an opportunity to make some offers without any scientific evidence that these offers actually benefit children is deeply worrying. Because we can ask ourselves how school days are going to be for a refugee child who is referred to a special offer outside the primary school; who from the start is isolated and kept outside of the community which I think is really important for just such a little boy on such a thing. 10 years, coming to Denmark and having fled from war and misery, that is to say to be kept outside of the community that is so necessary for such a small size to feel part of when you have experienced what you have experienced. And what effect will this have on integration in the long term? We also owe it to ourselves to answer that question. We're voting against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511175350	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Merete Riisager, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511175353	Thank you. Does the rapporteur recognise that there is a link between the number of asylum seekers coming to Denmark and the quality of the welfare we can offer them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511175410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511175411	Yes, of course I recognize that. I also recognise that we must therefore take responsibility for maintaining the quality we offer, even when more are coming to Denmark. This may mean redistributing resources slightly in relation to how you have done it in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511175426	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511175428	I just didn't understand that answer. The rapporteur started by saying that there is a link between the number of asylum seekers and the quality of welfare that we can offer them. Then she says that we must maintain the high quality. Is it possible to maintain the high quality of the welfare services we offer to asylum seekers, no matter how many people are coming?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511175452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511175454	I would like to specify what I said. If we assume that the resources we spend on our integration efforts are the same and there will be an increasing number of asylum seekers, then it is clear that this affects quality. So my point was that we need to adjust our efforts and financial resources, taking into account how many are coming to Denmark. On the same occasion, I would like to challenge the previous attack by the author, which was carried out in exactly the same way as Mrs Marianne Jelved from Radicales. It is about the claim that the alternative as well as radical and for that matter also Enhedslisten wants more asylum seekers to Denmark. As radicals, we want a pan-European solution which means that we take joint European responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511175538	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511175555	Thank you. We have a bill in our hands, which is the law on municipal special offers of primary education for certain foreign children and young people. It says in all its simplicity that this is about something quite different from primary school. It is a special offer, and it is for certain foreign children and young people. As previous rapporteurs have said here from the platform, it looks like a clear exclusion from the community. The government and the KL have negotiated because the KL have claimed, and I understand that they need flexibility. It will then be partly outside the primary school law. I quote from Paragraph 1 (1). 2 of the bill: the municipal council lays down the objectives and framework for the primary education of the special offer, including the appropriations and financial framework, the scope of the offer in terms of grade, pupil numbers, special education and other special educational assistance, free time education, the number of school days and the framework for class education, the number of pupils' teaching hours and the length of the school day. In other words, all the rules that create the primary school are exempt here. If the Minister or the government had preferred us to have a greater political breadth behind a draft law on flexibility, we could have negotiated within the framework of the primary school and helped to find flexible solutions. That's not gonna happen. At the same time, the notice on receiving classes must be changed from 12 pupils up to 15 and in some situations up to 18, and from pupils over 3 school years to pupils over 5 school years. This is a significant change in the reception class system in Denmark. What one can fear is that it will remain there even after we find ourselves in a situation of many, many refugee children. As I have said in one of my questions, it is a marked breach of the Danish school tradition, which is widely famous worldwide. We get visits from North Korea and all sorts of other places that come to see how we do primary school. We have an offer that states that the public school is free of charge. There is compulsory education, but there is no compulsory schooling. Parents are given very generously an opportunity to choose a school offer other than the public school, but they also have the right to choose the public school and get a free school offer. It is a minority right which makes us particularly able to take responsibility, including as parents, for the education of our children. In the way I read the Constitution and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, I do not believe that we are doing what the Constitution actually promises. We make a special school offer, a special situation for some special children. So it's not the same as a public school. This opportunity, the special offer, breaks with all the rules that today apply to primary school. Then you cannot come and say that it is the same offer, the same generosity that lies behind it. As I said, we would have liked to have contributed to a solution within the law on primary schools, and we know how important it is for children to play with children wherever they come from. We know how important and how fast it actually happens to adapt and learn the culture of foreign children. We know how schools can solve many problems by creating new opportunities with pavilions or by having departments around the municipality. While you have a primary school, you can have departments around which are attached to that primary school. There are many opportunities for greater flexibility. Out of 28 consultation responses, 5 have responded positively. Of the 5, 2 are Danish Employers' Association and Danish Industry. It is also remarkable that there is such a strong warning against going on this road, as the government does, with a narrow majority. I have to say here from the platform of the Folketing just to remove any doubt that in the Folketing the radical parliamentary group takes up a position on the legislation. That is what we are elected to do here. No one outside the Parliamentary Chamber can ask us to act in certain ways. They can, but we make our own decisions here. We are free by agreements that the government enters into with another party, here KL. It is an agreement in which we have not been involved in one way or another, but are presented as a fait accompli after it has been completed and concluded and the draft law has been drawn up in the first place. It is highly unsatisfactory conditions if we want to help solve a problem that we recognise is a challenge for Danish society. But it is also a challenge that can be raised and that could have been raised within the framework of the primary school. It's sad that it didn't happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511180109	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511180121	Thank you. Before I was elected to the Folketing, I worked at a school in reception classes. It was very hard, but it was also one of the most exciting things I have dealt with. On one side of the class was a Thai girl. Next to her were two Greenlanders. Next to them was a Romanian. Then there were two Polish siblings. Next to them a Brazilian saw two Turks, and finally there were three Syrian children. Few of them could be Danish. Some of them knew a few words. Several of them missed their family, their grandmother, their grandfather, their uncles. One of them was unaccompanied and missed his parents. Those who came from Syria had a really hard time. One of them kept to her ears every time the janitor cut grass out front because she thought it was a war machine. That was hard. It was an experience that really made me realize that it is going to take time to get them to learn Danish, because it actually required that you sit down with them individually one by one and read with them and said that this means this, and here you have to learn this. Every time you did it with the class ceiling that is today, there were 11 children sitting there. Receiving classes mean a lot to SF. It does, because it is the entrance to primary school for the children who come to the country. That's the way you get them used to being here. This is the way to let them see out in the schoolyard how the Danish children behave. How do you behave with the teacher? What happens in the reception classes affects the continued life of foreign children in Denmark, and therefore it is so important that we ensure that the conditions in the reception classes are good. That is why I also looked at something sceptical when TV 2 made an article with the Minister of Finance saying that he would facilitate integration. He will facilitate integration by raising the class ceiling in the receiving classes to 18 children. With what I have just said, in mind that you have to sit with the children individually to make them learn, it is not to facilitate integration. On the contrary. It's making it much, much harder. I would like to hear the Minister for Children and Education use the same argument with Danish children: it will give them better education or improve quality if we raise the general class ceiling in Denmark with six children. I don't think a lot of parents want to buy that. However, I am even more sceptical about the draft law that lies here, where special educational offers will be created without the requirement of class size, without the requirement of teacher qualifications, without the requirement that education should comply with the primary school law. It's not integration. It is also not inclusion on a day when you have talked a lot about how to ensure good inclusion. It is the exclusion right here in Denmark of a certain group of children. These are the children we need so much to get a good start. Try to reflect on it. How are we to ensure that these children are well integrated and that those children get off to a good start when we do not know who is teaching them? How are we supposed to make sure that they get off to a good start when we have no idea how many children are going to sit in the classrooms with these special educational offers? Then we didn't get an answer to this basic law thing. It is quite clear from the Basic Law that all children of compulsory education have the right to free education in primary school. That's what it says. It says that you have the right to free education in primary school. This is the opposite. You take a certain group of children and say: unfortunately, we cannot afford, so we put you into special educational offers. It is, in my view, a breach of the Constitution. So we have not really received an answer as to how these children can come from the special educational offer and into the primary school if they want to, and is that even an option? None of the rapporteurs I have asked today can answer that question. Then it has been said: yes, but it is a new primary school. But can you just set up new primary schools as a minister? Can you set up a primary school for SFs and redheads? Where's the limit? I mean, it's tragic, but can we just set up new primary schools? I do not think so. There are a great many unanswered questions in this draft law, and I noticed that the rapporteur of the Left said that sometimes the walls here at Christiansborg are really thick. I fully agree with that. Because if you think that this proposal is going to promote or facilitate integration, then the walls are really thick. When 92 percent. of the mayors, including their own mayors, say that this will damage integration and yet you will not recognise that it is damaging integration, so the walls are thick indeed. This is damaging integration. This will never be accepted for Danish children, and that is why we are voting no.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511180632	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511180637	Now I recognise that we have a young and talented rapporteur from the SF up here, but I also know that the young rapporteur, before becoming a politician, was a temp in a reception class. I myself have been a headteacher and a teacher, and I also know what it was like in the morning when you had to call because someone was sick. And then it was the case that you could only call young students like the rapporteur himself. Is it the optimal education and is it the optimal qualification to be in primary school? And can the rapporteur fear, or perhaps the opposite, that it will be the kind of teacher that will be, if it is that we simply put them in without giving it an extra teaching offer?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511180722	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511180724	I think that is a very good question, because what I had actually written in this speech and which I did not read out was that I also met my own limitations there. I said it implicitly. Well, I wasn't good enough to be a substitute in that class. I wasn't prepared for that at all, I wasn't trained for it, and that's exactly why my point is so clear today. And that is why it is quite foolish to create special educational services where we do not make demands on qualifications. I've tried it myself. I wasn't prepared for it. One of the things that the Social Democratic rapporteur and we in the SF agree on is that it is not good enough with all these young temporary workers in primary school. It was fine, and it was nice when I was, but in retrospect it does not benefit the students, neither refugee children nor Danish children, and that is why we in the conciliation circle have also made a determined effort to ensure that there are actually fewer uneducated temporary workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511180809	Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511180811	How to solve the acute problem, sir. Jacob Mark? What this is about is that the kids have crossed the border. What this is about is that we have a great many municipalities where you have uneducated teachers in permanent positions because the trained teachers do not exist. Who is going to do this teaching if a special educational offer is not introduced for a limited period of time? I think it is quite clear that you should have as many trained teachers as you can possibly get, because I think it is the best profession in teaching children, but how are we going to solve the acute problem when we cannot have teachers?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511180849	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511180850	In fact, I raised it at the last conciliation meeting, because again: I do not think it alone is a problem for refugee children that there are not enough teachers. This is a problem for all Danish children. There will be more and more temporary workers who do not have an education, and that calls for a strategy. That has not been wanted so far, but I hope there is support for that now. One of the first things to do was to look at the many teachers who are actually not in the Danish primary school. They have been forced away, I think, by not securing good enough working conditions for them. If you got back to primary school some of the many talented teachers who walk around and who are not in primary school, you would actually have solved a large part of the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511180925	Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511180928	Thank you. I would really like to follow up on Mrs Annette Lind's question, because I think that is actually one of the key issues. The SF rapporteur does not recognise that we can face a particular situation, and I would like the SF rapporteur to put a few more words on it or comment on it. Because I think we are in a very special situation because we have all these refugee children we have to deal with. And whether they were placed in a public school or in a free school, we would be in a situation where it can be difficult to get trained staff to handle them. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511181008	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511181010	Yes, but it doesn't just apply to refugee children. This is generally the case in the Danish primary school, which is why I also say what I believe it is necessary to ensure that there are enough teachers. It is that we are laying down a clear strategy to withdraw some of the talented teachers who are not in primary school anymore. I believe that this can be done by ensuring good working conditions for them. In concrete terms, we are fighting for local agreements where there is actually time to prepare. I think I could do a lot of that. Then I would just like to say that I have heard the rapporteur of the Left and several others say this because we are in a very special situation. But there is, in fact, a KL note showing that the cost of all the new classes I think it is 300 that will need to be set up and for all the educators you should hire if you are to keep a reasonable standard, is equivalent to approx. 2.3 billion kr. By comparison, the government has chosen to introduce a re-priority contribution of exactly the same amount. I just want to say that the acute situation that is out there has the government itself been involved in causing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511181107	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511181109	The rapporteur said local agreements, and that was the key to my next and last question: the fact that agreements can be reached in two-party negotiations between a government and the KL, the National Association of Municipalities, is one of the key issues in terms of being able to govern a country at all. Does the SF rapporteur not recognise that it is incredibly important to have this opportunity and does the rapporteur not recognise that it is KL who has asked for this model?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511181145	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511181147	I think it is nice to hear that the Left respects the system of agreements, given why we are lacking teachers today. But yes, I do recognise that you have to listen to the municipalities, but what I have, in fact, first heard the municipalities say is that they lack the money that the government has taken from them with the re-priority contribution. There will be a shortage of 300 reception classes, and there will be a shortage of educators I cannot quite remember the number, but a number of day care institutions will have to be created corresponding to exactly the same amount that the government has chosen to save on the municipalities. If you really wanted to listen to the municipalities, to the mayors, among others. Left mayors who say this is going to damage integration, maybe you should start by bringing that money back.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511181223	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511181232	Thank you. Denmark is in an extraordinary situation, and the municipalities, yes, the whole of society, are facing a huge task. It is expected that 15 000 refugee children will be granted a residence permit in 2016 alone and that is twice the number compared to 2015. The other day there was a debate in this Chamber, discussing whether or not numbers matter. And if you move into the municipalities, outside the walls here, I think you will get the answer. Because, of course, it means a lot. The flow of refugees is historically high and the situation is extraordinary. If this influx of refugees and refugee children continues, in just a few years refugee children will constitute a whole year in primary school; a whole year of brand new Danes who come from a culture and a society and an upbringing which is very distant from many of their Danish peers. At the same time, many of the children and young people who have fled from war and destruction inevitably have scars on their souls that may make it difficult for them to enter a regular course of education from day one. At the same time, there is also a capacity problem in primary school. With Bill L 190, the government is proposing to change the rules so that the municipalities have a freer framework for establishing special educational services for bilinguals, and the bill supports the Conservatives. In the exceptional situation facing the country's municipalities, it makes sense to give the municipalities a freer framework for solving the task and a freer framework for finding creative solutions that match local priorities, wishes and needs. The objective of L 190 is also that pupils should acquire personal, social and professional skills which are required so that they can be admitted to an ordinary class as soon as possible. The proposal gives municipalities the opportunity to set up services targeted at children and young people who, for educational reasons, need a different offer. And so I am sure that, with L 190, when we give the municipalities more levels of freedom, the municipalities will live up to their responsibilities and use the legislation constructively, because the municipalities have an interest that runs completely with the intentions of the legislative proposal, namely to make integration succeed in the best possible way. Nevertheless, I am also pleased that it has been introduced, that an evaluation has to be carried out after two to three years, so that it can be seen that it is progressing as intended. In those words, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511181507	Thank you. There is a question or comment from Mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511181511	Thank you. I generally see the Conservatives as a party that upholds the Danish constitution, and it is quite clear that it has also been mentioned several times in today's debate that all children of the compulsory age have the right to free education in primary school. If we no longer want to give refugee children that opportunity by excluding them and providing them with special educational services, is it the rapporteur's view that we are actually complying with what is in the constitution, which Conservatives normally uphold so much?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511181548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511181550	That's it. The question has been asked about exactly what the questioner is asking about the draft law, and there is an answer from the Ministry which says that this is escaping from the constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511181606	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511181608	If the parents of these children want the children not to go to these special educational services but to go to the primary school in the municipality in which they live, then that is immediately the right they have been given to the answer that has been given. How will the rapporteur ensure that children are given the opportunity? Is this contacting the local school? Does it know that you have something out there in the municipality that will give them that opportunity? How does the rapporteur envisage this to happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511181639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511181640	I would say that it will of course be up to the municipal council to ensure that the provisions of the legislation are complied with, among other things. states that the offer must match that of the primary school. And then I just lost track.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511181700	Then there is a question or comment from Mrs Marianne Jelved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511181704	Thank you. I am actually rather surprised that the Conservative People's Party is voting in favour of this proposal, because I have always had the idea that Conservatives like had both legs planted on the ground and were realistic. When you make a bill in which the number of pupils in a class, the number of classes, the number of school days and the number of pupils' hours of teaching and the length of school days, that is. Anything that's canceled, doesn't it matter how many kids there are in a class? Doesn't it matter how many vintages are taught together? Doesn't it matter how many days you go to school if you have to have an educational offer that matches that of primary school? Where is it that you can save money?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511181752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511181753	After all, we are in an extraordinary situation and when the municipalities of the country report that they cannot do this task within the existing framework, we need to find out what we are doing. It may have been easier just to say that they just have to solve the task, but it is not realistic. The draft law lays down that there may be a freer framework for making some other offers, and it is clear, of course, that those offers must comply with what the legislation says. It says, among other things, that they must measure up to that of the primary school, and it also says that the intention is that these bilingual children should be integrated into a normal class as soon as possible. However, if there is no room and there is no possibility of integrating them into a normal class at this time, there is no alternative but to create some other offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511181838	Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511181840	How does the rapporteur think we can prove that what is happening in the special offers for certain foreign children and young people is in line with what is generally expected in primary school? Do they have to go up to some tests so that you can see that they can do what others can at the same age levels? What does it take to keep it under control?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511181903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511181903-2	Now, for example, there is. It would be appropriate to go in and look at the professional level. But it's not meant for these kids to be long in the special offers. The intention is that it is something temporary until they are ready to enter a normal class.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511181920	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Minister for Children, Education and Gender Equality, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511181932	Denmark, like a large number of other countries in Europe, is in an extraordinary situation right now, a situation created by the fact that over recent years we have received historically many refugees. The refugees have put pressure on the municipalities, they have put pressure on the services of the municipalities, they have challenged the framework for integration efforts in Denmark. If we look only at the issue we are dealing with today, namely the whole area of children, it was the case that in 2009 375 refugee children were to receive an educational offer in Denmark • 375 refugee children. Last year there were 7,447. KL's expectations are that this figure will double this year, so there are up to 15 000 refugee children just this year to have a teaching offer. It's a forty-fold since 2009. Then you can have all sorts of opinions that they have to lie around in the municipalities, and when the municipalities ask for flexibility, that is not something to be listened to in the Folketing. There we have chosen from the government to say that when the municipalities are asking for flexibility to solve the huge task of integrating so many children and providing them with an educational offer, we also have an obligation to listen and also look at how we can then help ensure flexibility without compromising on the quality of the offers. On the part of the government, we fully acknowledge that the reception of the many refugees has created challenges in the municipalities, has put pressure on them. It's not just about resources, it's also about the organisation of the offers, it's about recruiting qualified employees, it's also about how to deal with this assignment in concrete and physical terms. There are very many municipalities which just a few years ago did not have a single reception class and which currently have 50 and 100 children who need a teaching offer. Not in a few years' time, when you've done all sorts of studies that I can hear some people want to, but here and now. Up to 15,000 children this year. It is also against this background that the government has chosen to conclude an agreement with the National Association of Municipalities, a so-called two-party agreement, in order to meet the concerns of the municipalities and also their desire for a more flexible framework for the reception of the large number of refugees and the large number of refugee children. The aim of the agreement is to ensure that municipalities are given the necessary flexibility in the framework of their integration efforts, not simply to compromise on their efforts, not to take up the integration task, not, as some of the rapporteurs say, simply to make short-term solutions which will then have consequences both personally, humanly and economically. So that very short-term point of view we will not take responsibility, we will not help to ensure that we can solve the task.Of course, you can also take in here far away from the actual municipality, whether it is radical, it is SFs, it is Danish People's Party members in the municipalities who have the task. There we have chosen to make an agreement with the National Association of Municipalities and meet the wishes they have had. And I am really, really happy and would also like to thank those parties, the Social Democrats, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, who have shown that they have chosen to take responsibility and back the bill. Surely no one has thought that the task we are facing is easy. Surely nobody thinks it is nice to see that, if you support the need for more flexibility, you are immediately hung up as someone who does not care that the children of refugees should have a proper educational offer. But may I not just ask that we do not turn this into such a black and white discussion, but actually address the educational challenge that exists in each municipality. We have listened to the hearings that have been given, we have made several adjustments to the bill. We have also had a very good dialogue with the Social Democrats, with the Liberal Alliance and with the Conservative People's Party. The Socialists have pointed out the need for a definite sunset clause to emphasise precisely the extraordinary nature of the draft law and a number of other points that we have chosen to address, because this is not just about closing our eyes to the fact that there may be concerns. We have actually listened to the concerns, but it is just not a solution to pretend that the 15 000 children who need an educational offer this year are just disappearing and that the task is solving itself. The draft law should therefore contribute to improving local communities' opportunities to organise the initial basic school provision for bilingual children and young people, both in line with the priorities of the municipalities, but also their framework and their opportunities. There are many who then also highlight the announcement, in which there is also a greater flexibility, and say that if you raise the class ceiling from 12 to 15 or to 18 places where there can in particular be the same language background for students and there may be educational reasons for this, you compromise on quality. I should like to refer in this connection to the answer No. 199, which I sent to the committee, where we point out that Denmark is the only country in Scandinavia where there are class ceilings for these offers. I do not know whether the rapporteurs generally believe that it is because there is a poor quality in offers in Norway, in Sweden, in other Scandinavian countries, when one wants to say that because there are parties who choose to support this bill, they do not care about quality. I am of the opinion that in Denmark, as well as in the other Nordic countries, we are all struggling with the fact that the existing offers can also have challenges. It's not like that when I look beyond our reception classes and the offers they have today, that I then think: The just perfectly perfect, there are no problems associated with them. But when I listen to the speeches of the Alternative, the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and, in part, the DF's rapporteurs today, I think that we are skating over the fact that there may also be challenges today when we say that any change from today must be to the bad. There is a literature study that the Alternative's rapporteur asked about research. It's not research that's the reason for this. There is a literature study that Rambøll has drawn up, we have also discussed it in consultation, in the committee which points out that there is not one model that can be organised and accepted for the offers. It points out that there are four types of models where the draft law we are discussing today can well be characterised as the model called Model A. The only thing this literature study advises directly against is what is called Model D, namely direct integration into primary school. That is why I just have to say that this is the only thing that is directly discouraged. In addition, it is pointed out that the other types of models each have their advantages, each of their disadvantages, each of their options, and I think that this should be dealt with when you want to look at what it is that you can use to give more flexibility to the municipalities, so that you do not necessarily say that there is only one type of offer. Rather, I think it might be feared that if we do not give the municipalities flexibility, it will be model D that is in force very soon, namely direct integration into the normal classes without any support, because we do not have a desire to create flexibility. We want to create flexibility, and I am pleased that there is a majority in the Folketing that will support giving the municipalities the necessary flexibility. The draft law we are debating will not, as has been said, exclude newly arrived refugee children, it will not be the creation of discount reception classes, but it will allow municipalities to create special municipal offers of primary education for certain foreign children and young people outside the framework of the primary school law and on the basis of educational reasons and on the basis of an assessment of the not insignificant language support needs that children may have. Some of those children are extremely traumatized and may, in fact, need to have some other framework around their educational provision than what you can offer in a primary school. As the Social Democrats' rapporteur and also the Conservatives' rapporteur and others have said, it would be natural to have a very, very close link with the primary school, because the goal is that within a maximum of two years they should enter and go into an ordinary class. It is emphasized that it should be contrary to the Constitution. I would like to point out the answer to question 189, which is in the committee, where it is clearly explained why it is not contrary to the basic law, and also that parents have the opportunity, if they do not want to have their children in this offer, to go down to the district school, another school, ask the head of the school whether their children have the level needed to be admitted to an ordinary class. It is then up to the head of the school concerned to assess whether the child in question can be directly integrated into a class or whether, precisely as the municipality has indicated, a special educational offer is needed. The degree of freedom granted to the municipal council does not, of course, alter the fact that education must match what is generally required in the primary school, and it is the responsibility of the municipal council to ensure that this happens. As I said earlier, we have had a good dialogue with the parties as well, and the sunset clause, which among other things. The Socialist Group in the European Parliament and also the Liberal Alliance and others have stressed that this is an extraordinary initiative in an extraordinary situation, because we need to respond to the need for flexibility that the municipalities have asked for. I also think it is important to emphasise that an evaluation of the law in the spring of 2019 will provide a good basis for assessing what experience we have then gained in relation to the fact that it might also be possible to find very good models in the municipalities, perhaps even models that are better than what we are experiencing today, in terms of how they ensure a proper reception offer for children and young people. I look forward to the debate in committee. I hope that we can also have the opportunity to get away from these black and white points of view and down to what we really are facing a challenge, because I do not think that the alternative is simply to pretend that there are not as many as 15 000 children who need an educational offer here and now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511183010	Thank you, Minister. There are a number of brief comments. First, it's sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511183015	Thank you. The Danish People's Party does not want to integrate refugees because we do not want to turn refugees into immigrants. The government, on the other hand, wants to turn refugees into immigrants. The government wants to integrate them. It is fair enough that you have that attitude because you have a lax policy on foreigners and a lax policy on refugees. But when the government wants to integrate, it must also assume that it wants to integrate them properly and integrate them well. Can the Minister guarantee that this bill on special offers does not detract from the language skills of the asylum children, impairs the integration opportunities of the asylum children, and can the Minister guarantee that Danish children's education will not be affected when these asylum children, having been in these special offers, come into the classes? It is a guarantee under ministerial responsibility that I would like.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511183122	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511183124	I am quite sure that the flexibility given to the municipalities can be taken care of both in a good way and in a way, so that there will be problems. So it is with the reception classes that today. There are some of the offers that do not rust the students well enough to subsequently enter a normal class. That is also something that makes me say in my speech that I do not think it is possible to say that everything is working perfectly today. I think that, with more flexibility in the municipalities, it is possible to organise qualitatively good offers for the children who come here and who have a not insignificant need for support, which will ensure that they will be able to enter the primary school within a maximum of two years. That is the idea behind the draft law, and that is what the municipalities must live up to. It is, of course, the municipalities and the municipal council, as I said, that must ensure that this educational offer is in line with what is required in the primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511183216	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511183218	So the Minister can't guarantee anything. The Minister says that today it is not working well enough, and what we are doing now, which is both cheaper and worse, we cannot even guarantee that integration will improve. So it's such a hoofsa proposal. The minister said the rest of us skated over reality. It's the minister skating over reality because you put this in the lake. Not only that: three out of four mayors will not even use it because it creates bad integration, they say. Tell me, when are the Minister and the government gonna get into reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511183255	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511183256	If it is the case that three out of four municipalities do not want to use it, then I do not understand the great concern. The great concern expressed by the rapporteur is due to the belief that many people will use it. We have chosen to meet the desire of the National Association of Municipalities to create more flexibility. This bill is an expiry of the two-party agreement, and it is to ensure that the municipalities are able to handle the major integration task that lies out there. This doesn't allow you to make a discount offer without high quality. This ensures that you have the flexibility to ensure that children are developed both personally and professionally, as the bill also shows.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511183337	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511183341	Thank you. The Minister says that this bill will not weaken quality, and the Minister also says that raising the class ceiling will not weaken quality either, because there is apparently no class ceiling in other countries in Scandinavia. Now, as I also tried to explain in my speech, there are a great many children in those classes who do not know a word Danish. It is from the very beginning that they must learn the Danish language, and it is not a very easy language. Some of them even have traumas, some of them miss their family. I would just like to ask: when you raise the class ceiling, i.e. if you imagined that you could, for example, raise the ceiling. Did it not raise it with six pupils, does the Minister not think that it would weaken the quality? And then I just want to hear again: if we, together, the Minister and myself, proposed tomorrow to raise the upper limit of the Danish primary schools from 28 to 34 pupils, would the Minister not say that it weakened the quality?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511183441	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511183442	I replied to it in consultation, also after questions from the SF rapporteur, and I think I said quite precisely that whether it will compromise on quality depends on how it is organised. When we have put the emphasis on having more or less the same language background, it is because we can see that very many of the children who come in these years come from the same countries. That is why we can see that some of the reception classes will be made up of children who have the same language as their mother tongue, whereas the rules that exist have very much also existed at a time when there could be children with very different language backgrounds. That is why we have said that where the pedagogical assessment is that the class ceiling can be raised, it can be raised. Then I allowed myself because several of the rapporteurs said that if you raised it, things would fall apart completely to point out that Denmark is the only country in Scandinavia where we have these ceilings.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511183542	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511183544	I'm not saying it's falling apart. I'm just saying that it damages integration and weakens quality. I must also say that it is a little interesting tones from the Left that it is thought that the Danish class ceiling can easily be raised in folk schools with six pupils, without affecting quality, if you just organise it properly. I think that is an interesting statement. I would like to ask what the Minister is saying that the parents of these refugee children can actually opt out of the special educational offer if they go up to the head of the school. This presupposes that the head of the school believes that the children have the right level. But then they still do not have a right. What if the headmaster doesn't think they have the level needed, how do you guarantee them a right? Will they then be entitled to a special offer to bring them up to the right level? Or what are the rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511183629	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511183630	I didn't relate to what it's like with the Danish class ceiling. We are talking about classes of recipients, and that is also what we discussed during the consultation in question. I really think that is what we should be dealing with very much, namely what pressure it puts on the municipalities, when they have seen since 2009 that there has been a forty-fold increase in the number of children they have to provide for a teaching offer. That is what this draft law is trying very hard to comply with, and I have just allowed myself to say that one can choose not to listen to the fact that the municipalities have pointed out that they need flexibility precisely to be able to organise a proper offer for those children who have a non-negligible need for language support. Then I would say that the rules that are in relation to instruction to another school are no different from those that apply in other areas. And as can be seen from the answer to question No. 189, we don't think this is contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511183721	Thank you. Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511183725	Thank you. The minister says there isn't just one model. There are several possible models, the Minister said in his speech, and we are in complete agreement with that. Of course there are several possible models. What just becomes the jumping point, and I think I speak both on behalf of the Alternative and on behalf of some of the other parties, is why you do not find a model. Why has a model not been found that is within the framework of the primary school law, but at the same time it gives flexibility to the municipalities that they seem to have sought?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511183757	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511183758	We have chosen to respond to the wishes of the municipalities for flexibility and there is greater flexibility in the draft law that we are discussing today than there would be if we had negotiated within the framework of the primary school law. It is a desire to accommodate the municipalities. When we do not have one model, it is precisely in recognition that there are many models. There are also many models that are successfully used in other countries that can be used and that can be taken into account in the municipalities in the organisation of the offer. That is why I do not think it would be right to say that it is only one type of model to have. If I look around and look at what is happening right now in the municipalities, then there is Hørsholm, who integrates directly into the classes, and there are other municipalities asking for this special offer. If we take some of the answers to the hearings, some of them which the Alternative's rapporteur skilfully did not mention, but which also points out that it is positive, for example. From the Social Teachers or the National Association of Youth School Managers it appears that in Helsingør, and this is also evident from the literature study, is in fact already an organisation under the auspices of youth schools for some of the slightly older refugee children. And that is where we have proposed that there should be flexibility and not just one model chosen from in here by the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511183908	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511183912	I would like to turn it around in my second question. The Minister also says that the government will not compromise on the quality of these special offers and that it will not compromise on quality, but will be in line with the primary school law and the offer of the primary school, and then you could ask the Minister: why do we need primary school legislation at all? Could we not just set it free to the municipalities if the municipalities can be free to make an offer here that they believe does not compromise on quality? Then why do we even need a primary school law?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511183950	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511183951	Well, I'd like to discuss primary school law, but that's just not what we're discussing today. We are talking about the great task of ensuring proper integration and education for the many refugee children who come here. That is where we have pointed out that some of the flexibility that, for example, exists. is within the framework of the free school law, where there are not as many demands as are made within the framework of the primary school, can be a good basis for precisely giving flexibility to the municipalities in relation to the organisation of it. When I look out at our free schools, which have the same qualifications requirements as the draft law, it is not the case that I think that it is a discount offer that is a bad offer. Maybe that's what the alternative is thinking, but that's not what I'm thinking. In fact, I believe that with this draft law, we will ensure a flexibility that will also ensure that the municipalities can carry out the task in a qualified manner. And it is up to the municipalities and local authorities to ensure that it is in line with what is happening in the primary school and to ensure that the quality of these offers is correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511184046	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511184048	Thank you. The Minister says, and I have written it down, so it is a direct quote: without compromising on quality. When you see that it says at the same time that this offer is addressed to children with a not insignificant need for language support in the form of teaching in Danish as a second language, then it is a very important task if a quality is to be maintained. And then, when the flexibility really goes on what I also mentioned in my speech from the platform, namely that the rules on classes, pupils' numbers, free time education, the number of school days, the framework for class education, the number of pupils' hours of teaching and the length of school day, to mention the most significant, then I see that all right, then we have probably a special school offer consisting of 2 hours a day for that group of pupils here. Then the next group arrives for two hours a day. Is that the type we're gonna see? Or what is the flexibility when all the provisions forming the content, structure and organisation of the primary school are abolished?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511184200	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511184201	I do not think that such an offer would be in line with that of the primary school, and it is clear from the draft law that this offer must be in line with that of the primary school. In contrast to the Radical Left, however, I do not believe that the fact that there is a more flexible framework for the organisation of free schools in Denmark makes it possible to provide no qualified educational services. And the things that Mrs Marianne Jelved mentions are provisions that apply to free schools, which ensure that a qualified educational offer can be given to children and young people. I think we should respond to the wishes of the municipalities for greater flexibility, because precisely in relation to this group of children, who are particularly vulnerable, some of them also with trauma, may need to be associated with some other people, so that it is not only the teachers who are at the centre of it. It can, for example, be done. be social educators who have welcomed the bill; they may be psychologists; they may be a group with other qualifications than those which relate only to professional education, some which also relate to the personal development of these children.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511184259	Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511184301	This is already being done under the auspices of the elementary school. There are many other kinds of professionals who are associated with the reception classes and primary school pupils in general. It's nothing new. But I can almost understand that we need to see these special offers as a series of new free schools. That is the model that the Minister constantly draws forward. Is that where flexibility lies, i.e. simply creating some large number of new free schools which are not free in the sense that they are thus publicly paid free schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511184335	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511184336	This is a special educational offer aimed at a group of bilinguals who have a not insignificant need for language support. When I draw a parallel to the free schools, it is, of course, because of among other things. The radical rapporteur and a number of others who are opposed to the draft law are pointed out that if we do not lay down specific rules as to what qualifications there should be and if we do not make specific demands that it be exact as it is in the primary school, then we will have poor quality. I would just like to point out that the rules underlying the draft law are the same rules on qualifications that form the basis of free schools. And when I look beyond our free school landscape, it's not like I think it's poor quality and non-workable educational provision. That's why I draw the parallel. It has nothing to do with it being the same. However, one cannot afford to say that it cannot be qualified that it can in fact lead to good, well-functioning educational provision.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511184427	Sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511184430	I would ask the Minister to clarify the legal position of children and parents. If it is so in X-købing Municipality that the municipality refers a refugee child to such a basic school offer as that described by the bill, and the parents say that they do not want it and want their child in primary school, are the parents entitled to have their child in primary school, or are they not entitled to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511184506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511184507	As I said before, if they do not want their child in the offer to which they are assigned, parents can ask the head of another school whether they believe that the child is ready to be admitted to the grade at which the child belongs and have the qualifications required. I am not going to make myself a judge of the judgment on which it is based. I have also said in consultation that this is the case, and in the end there are also opportunities for home teaching if that is what you want. So it is not the case that there is no free choice, but this is a specialized offer which must both ensure the flexibility of the municipalities, but also that there are some reception services that are qualified to deal with the bilingual children, who have a not insignificant need for language support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511184549	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511184552	I fully understand that you can ask about everything you want. But it wasn't really about whether parents can ask about everything they want I was interested in, but what they have the right to. I think it is absolutely central, also because such a discussion can become so abstract: is it unconstitutional, or is it not unconstitutional? But I think that what can help to determine whether it is one or the other is whether one has the right to a public school offer, and it will be verified if one is referred to a school offer, and so as parents say: we do not want this, because friendly people have made us aware that section 76 of the constitution says that we are entitled to an offer in primary school. Can the municipality then say: No, you are not entitled to an offer in a primary school? Or do they have to drop their reference and accept that the child then starts in the local primary school?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511184645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511184646	As with all other children in Denmark, you can be referred to a school other than the district school. However, I think that if the Enhedslisten wants several detailed questions to be answered, we can do so in committee. We are happy to answer any questions, but I really think I have tried, both today and also on the consultation we have had, very clearly to say that this is a process of searching for a not insignificant language support requirement in relation to some children, and that the parents who are then may want to apply for admission to their children elsewhere, and then it will be the head of the school concerned who will have to assess whether the child has the qualifications needed to be able directly into a normal school offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511184727	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511184746	The debate is open, and it is first the Minister for Transport and Building. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511184810	The Enhedslisten has proposed requiring the government to submit a proposal for an amendment to the Freight Driving Act so that it will be possible for the police to detain the whole wagon train if goods are carried out in violation of the law. It is the opinion of the proposers that, in order to create proper conditions in the freight sector, purchasers of transport services, which are often large and important players in the market, must also have an incentive to choose partners in the transport chain that comply with the rules in force. By amending the Road Traffic Act in 2012, the police were given the opportunity to withhold both Danish and foreign towing units, also known as tractors, if goods are carried out in breach of the road haulage legislation or EU rules on goods transport, for example. the cabotage rules. The detention of the puller may take place until the illegal relationship is settled. The withdrawal may also take place until the payment of the fine or the payment of the security has been lodged. So that's the dragon we're talking about here. The Enhedslisten made a proposal in 2012 and 2015 similar to what we are discussing today regarding the detention of the whole wagon train. These proposals could not obtain a majority in this Chamber. In connection with the previous proposals from Enhedslisten, the Ministry of Justice stated that detention of the whole wagon train raises a number of legal security issues. This applies, among other things, to: in relation to the fundamental principle of proportionality, as the fines could be covered by the value of the puller itself, which can already be retained today. In addition, there is one consideration to take to the owner of the load that may be in the combination/on-board wagon. I should also like to highlight the question of compensation: who is going to cover any losses incurred by the person who has paid to get his goods carried if the detention of the whole wagon train gives rise to this? According to the proposal, this is solved by the fact that the goods are not subject to detention but, in practical terms, it may be difficult to transfer goods from one trailer to another on the road or at a rest stop. Given that the necessary tools already exist today to ensure the payment of fines for infringements of the legislation on the carriage of goods by road, and that no rules are to be introduced which are of legal concern, I and the government believe that the proposal should be rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511185027	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511185032	One of the aims of the proposal is, of course, to create an additional incentive for people in the transport chain other than just the road hauliers, and that is, of course, because it has been found that foreign hauliers are often not, if I may say so, to come after. It is true that you can withhold the towing vehicle, the tractor, and then you can see if you can cash your fine that way around. However, it does not provide any incentive for freight forwarders or transport buyers to make sure that there is order in the cases of those in the transport chain to whom they are now addressing, that is to say, with the carrier or whoever it may be you are addressing. That's the whole point of this proposal. That is why it is not true that the legal aspects can necessarily be looked at alone, for example. Because, of course, there is an ongoing discussion among lawyers as to whether there are any legal problems at all in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511185143	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511185145	So, on the question of whether a freight forwarder can then be punished for participation, I can say that it is indeed the case that a freight forwarder can be punished, in the circumstances, for involvement in the illegal cabotage operations of a foreign undertaking. This can be done in accordance with the general rules of the Penal Code on co-operation. At the same time, I would like to mention that all experience shows that prosecution of freight forwarders is difficult to implement in practice, because it can therefore be very difficult to prove that the freight forwarder has known about the illegal cabotage operation. And the Ministry of Justice has in the past considered that the introduction of an option to prosecute freight forwarders to a greater extent than the provisions of the criminal code on complicity would entail criminal liability in cases where the freight forwarder has not had a real opportunity to ensure that a road haulage operator does not carry out an illegal cabotage operation. So we are talking about an objective responsibility for the freight forwarder. I would just like to conclude by pointing out that the Minister for Justice has found it legally questionable to introduce such an objective responsibility for freight forwarders.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511185243	Here you go, sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511185247	That is also why it can be said that the proposal is aimed at changing the law on the carriage of goods by road. After all, we did that back in 2012, when we made it possible to withhold the puller. What, in principle, is the difference between this and the retention of the tractor, which in most cases will probably have a much greater value than the semi-trailer that may be put on and the legal problems that should be in terms of objective responsibility, proportionality etc. etc. In the case of withholding the tractor, I cannot see. On the contrary, we have seen that freight forwarders and transport buyers, in other words those who carry their goods, wash their hands when the situation arises, and we have seen situations with poor Bulgarian and Romanian drivers who have to walk on the motorway, so to speak, because the road driver at home in Bulgaria does not intend to pay, and the freight forwarder and the transport buyer certainly did not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511185338	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511185339	Without that, sir. Henning Hyllested now has to misunderstand it, I would just like to call for us to be careful now that we do not get everything mixed together. I am not of the opinion that it is okay to offer such poor conditions as drivers from abroad are offered in Denmark according to some of the examples we have seen. That is not my opinion either. I'm just saying that what the Minister of Justice has said is that the value of the pull clearly covers that fine. Well, it's enough to detain it. That is why there are some legal views here, and when I hear that this is the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, I have no reason at all to say that it should not apply.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511185420	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511185431	Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 131 on the amendment of the Code on the Carriage of Goods by Road so that the whole combination of vehicles can be detained is a resubmission of an earlier proposal from the Enhedslisten. The proposal is at the same time sensible and potentially problematic. The Social Democrats fully share the Enhedslisten's desire to combat illegal cabotage and social dumping in the transport sector. It is therefore also our view that it is sensible for the transport buyer or freight forwarder to be given incentives to take responsibility for ensuring that the haulier does not break the rules that we have jointly set up for the transport industry. It is probably the case that if there is a risk that goods carried under illegal conditions can be withheld, demand for such services will probably also decrease and this will affect the transport industry in a positive direction. In general terms, it is therefore the view of the Socialist Group that the resolution, if adopted, could strengthen the fight against crime on the Danish roads. Conversely, it is clear and it has also emerged from the previous reading that the Social Democratic Party cannot support a proposal if the examination of the committee work shows that serious and serious legal concerns can be raised by the Ministry. I am thinking, as the Minister mentioned earlier, of who may have to pay a loss from the owner or consignee if goods lose their value in connection with the detention of a combination of vehicles or in connection with the reloading of the goods. Here, of course, the challenge is that the freight forwarder or freight forwarder is rarely the one who has directly broken the law, although in some cases it may be possible to discuss whether the freight forwarder is instrumental in a possible infringement of law if we are talking about illegal cabotage. This problem is the view of the Enhedslisten's proposers that you can solve by loading the goods into another wagon, as it is only the wagon itself and not the goods that are being detained. I must confess that I can see certain challenges in that solution. For example, the transport of live animals or perishable foods can be considered. We must, of course, deal with these issues during the committee procedure. Having said that, I also think it is important that we should distinguish between the Swedish experience, where a similar option has been introduced, and whether we might be inspired if it turns out that the changes to the rules in Sweden have been effective. And we should also look at whether Sweden has had the same concerns about legal certainty. The Socialists are, as a starting point, in favour of the proposal, but we will only take a final look at the proposal once the committee procedure has established whether the proposal has the negative legal side-effects that I have briefly touched on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511185711	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511185714	I must say that I welcome the announcement by the Socialists. I fully agree that we must, of course, carry out a very, very thorough examination of our committee work. We've got exactly today, sir. After all, Christian Rabjerg Madsen was present and had an expert hearing, which we could sort of hold. It might well be that we should work a little further along that road and perhaps have a major expert hearing, one way or another involving the officials of the Ministry of Justice, because it is true that this is where it is, in particular, encountering opposition. It is true, for example, that there is. may be problems with reloading. The rapporteur asks: what if they are live animals? Yeah, but that's exactly what's meant to be. It has to be difficult, it has to be expensive, so there will be the incentive for the transporter in the first place and the freight forwarder to say: we have to be absolutely sure that the trucker is just in order, he is not breaking any rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511185815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511185816	Thank you. I am happy if the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten is happy. As I said, I myself took part in the expert hearing earlier and also noticed that there was one player from the industry who said that this reloading is a practical problem, but that probably because it is a problem it will be solved by the freight forwarder going in and guaranteeing the fine. And if that is the case, then some of what I suppose the proposer wants has been achieved. But it's clear that they...
ParlaMint-DK_20160511185854	No one else has wanted to speak on short remarks, so thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511185908	Thank you. As a starting point, the Danish People's Party is positive in terms of tightening sanctions that can help to stop illegal activities: illegal cabotage, breakage of driving rest times, etc. etc. Others have expressed their concerns. I might also be concerned about having to reload such a car filled with either chickens or live pigs in a rest stop; I could imagine that might disturb traffic a little. I agree with the intentions of this, but perhaps I also take the view that it may well be that we should dig a spade deeper here during the committee work and think very carefully about it. But there is no doubt that the preventive effect, and I think that is what Mr. Henning Hyllested's side will clearly be higher in the moment you also have the opportunity to seize the trailer. So, as I said, we are positive about looking at all the means that can help to combat social dumping and illegal practices on the roads. And this might be a means to it, but we just need to clarify the very legal subtleties of it. We got a little bit smarter at that expert hearing today, but I think we should spend a lot of time in committee work, and maybe there could also be a story, so we got a little deeper into this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511190035	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hyllested resigns, so thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511190049	Thank you. With the motion for a resolution here, the Enhedslisten proposes that the Danish Parliament instruct the government to propose amendments to the law on the carriage of goods, so that it will be possible for the police to detain all trains, i.e. both the tractor and the trailer, if goods are carried out in breach of the law, including for example: in the event of a breach of the driving-rest-time rules or cabotage rules. About a year ago, I also stood on the platform and argued against a virtually identical proposal from the Enhedslisten, and now Enhedslisten has retabled it, and incidentally there was also a similar proposal in 2012. So far, it has not been possible to get a majority behind it, and there are good reasons for this. The left's conclusion is the same as the previous ones: we do not see the need for such a change of law, because the question is, of course, whether the police are equipped with the means to keep justice in the heavy goods vehicle area on the roads. As a result of previous tightenings in the legislation, the police already have the opportunity to detain both Danish and foreign migratory units in connection with offences until the fines are secured. For this reason, the police also find that the current rules are applicable to the purpose of the detention, namely to provide this guarantee for the payment of fines. Furthermore, in connection with previous proposals from Enhedslisten, the Ministry of Justice raised doubts about the legal implications of the proposal. The question, for example, is: discussed in the report of the Cabotage Committee in 2013. In this context, the Ministry of Justice stated that: "When it comes to the retention of the trailer/whole combination, it raises a number of questions of legal certainty. This applies, among other things, to: in relation to the basic principle of proportionality, as the fines could be covered by the value of the part of the wagon (even the truck) that can already be held • • the truck itself • Further, there is a consideration to take to the owner of the load that may be in the trailer/car train. It is therefore a quote from the report of the Cabotage Committee. The Left agrees that the retention of the whole vehicle would be unreasonably and legally questionable. In practical terms, the Left also has doubts about the feasibility of the proposal. According to the proposal, the goods must be exempted from the retention in order to prevent the customer from being unduly deprived of the supply of his goods. In practice, however, it is, to put it mildly, difficult to reload goods in the middle of the road or in a rest stop. That is why our conclusion is clear: we reject the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511190344	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511190349	It is true that this is a re-submission of one of our previous resolutions, and we had already announced this. The last time it was dealt with, it didn't actually arrive at treatment due to the announcement of the election. It is true that we have retabled it on the grounds that there are precisely those legal disagreements and discussions in the industry, including among people in the industry, somen, and the Ministry of Justice. Nor should there be any doubt, however, that the main aim of the proposal is to ensure that everyone in the transport chain works for the orderly conditions advocated by the rapporteur, in other words to ensure that freight forwarders and transport buyers also work to ensure that there are proper conditions. And today we have to see that they do not. We know that freight forwarders are, in fact, the focal point of road transport. Nevertheless, it can be said that the rules are being violated and then it is left to the individual Bulgarian trucker or Bulgarian driver to stand with his hair in the mailbox on the road when he has been taken in something while the freight forwarder and the transport buyer wash their hands. So you can detain the wagon train to get the fine from the Bulgarian trucker, but why not discipline the industry? I think that is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511190504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511190505	Yes, but I do not see it as documented that there is a huge problem of non-compliance on the roads. And I have also taken note of the reports from the police that they have the means to enforce justice on the roads in the truck sector, and there has to be justice. We don't want any free-traders breaking the rules and doing unfair competition. I fully agree with that. But I think somewhere that Enhedslisten shoots gray sparrows with guns here. Because if there was a statistic that said that there were severe problems and a lot of people who cheated and cheated every day, then it was worth considering further measures. But the Left does not think that there is any documented need for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511190545	Here you go, sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511190547	Now we actually saw at the expert meeting today that one of the lawyers, I think it was from DTL, showed the head of storage, one might almost say, of trucks, that is, of tractors. It was down in the Triangle area where there are cars for which the fine could not be withdrawn and which have then been detained. It is, of course, aimed at the foreign hauliers, who have either owned or leased, or whatever they have, the haulers in question. However, I would like to say again that no demands are made on the rest of the industry, i.e. typically the one in Denmark, namely freight forwarder and transport buyer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511190631	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511190632	Well, I note that there are, in fact, already the necessary tools if Danish carriers or freight forwarders have actually had an impact on illegal transport: Section 23 of the Criminal Code states that there may be a co-responsibility in cases where the freight forwarder has had knowledge of or contributed to the illegal operation. So there is, in fact, already a legal basis for dealing with the problem mentioned here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511190707	That's good. We just got a little distracted. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511190720	As was the case last time, this motion for a resolution was dealt with, we cannot support the detention of entire freight wagons if irregularities or breaches of driving and rest periods regulations and other provisions are found. These are goods which, as you know, are third-party goods and which will be delayed and expensive. Nor do we think that this is the proportionality that has already been mentioned, which must always be expected in a society governed by the law, between possible criminal offences and the penalty or penalty imposed. The Minister has also mentioned the problem of compensation for the customer who is missing his goods. So, for these reasons, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511190809	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment. Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511190813	I understand, of course, that some legal arguments can be referred to. These are the ones I will try to see if we can do anything better in the committee work. But Mr. Will not Mr Christensen recognise quite objectively that it will probably mean something if there was the possibility of holding a freight wagon, but so that, of course, you can get your goods at any time, it should then just be reloaded to another combination of vehicles? Will there not be an incentive for the transport buyer in question, who has his goods to be transported or the freight forwarder who actually organises the whole transport, to say quite objectively: we have to get a trucker who is just in order? We should not be making use of someone who is known to drive illegal cabotage or to violate the rules on driving and rest periods, or what do I know? Will it not have the consequence that such a freight forwarder or transport buyer will think about it to put it plainly until several times?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511190916	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511190917	I am not going to deny that there may be such incentives. The whole problem here is, of course, whether you think there is a connection between the size of the problem and the guns you put in place. I mean, are we shooting gray sparrows with guns in this situation? That's where we are. That's where the roads part. It's not all the problems in this world that are solved by making even more rules from in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511190948	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511190950	You do it already. If the police detect that the brakes do not work on the semi-trailer, then drive the semi-trailer to the side and say: there it stays until the brakes are in order and have been seen. The semi-trailer may happen to be filled with cargo. So what do you do? This is a perfectly similar situation. I guess you have to reload that cargo somehow.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511191014	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511191016	It may be. But that does not change the fact that we have some legal issues. Is there a connection? We have a community of law. So there has to be a connection between the reprisals that can be struck and the problem that is brought about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511191035	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Roger Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511191043	Thank you. In the alternative, we have voted in favour of the resolution. Rules and legislation must, of course, be complied with and we stress that road safety must not be compromised and that drivers' working conditions must be guaranteed so that they are fair and decent. We believe that this resolution can help to ensure this. In the alternative, we note in particular that the proposal in its nature will hopefully have a preventive effect, since the involvement of several links in the transport chain can lead to co-responsibility. So in the alternative, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511191128	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next one is sir. Johannes Lebech, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511191142	On the part of the Radical Left, we are fully committed to the cost of violating regulations on the carriage of goods by road. It is claimed that the rules are being violated a great deal. There are no special statistics, but maybe we'll hear about it later. However, we have made huge fines and increased controls. But on the part of the Radical Left, we find the provision that is being put forward for the third time too drastic. There is, of course, the possibility of transhipment, it is not a mere confiscation of the cargo, but the transhipment in the middle of a rest stop of strange goods I find, frankly, a bit bizarre. So I think we have come to where we have just increased the penalty framework, and I do not believe that it will have the expected effect on the freight forwarder. Generally speaking, in legal policy, we do not believe so much that it just helps to set up penalties when trying to prevent things. We cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511191244	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511191248	That was just in relation to the last remarks, Mr. Johannes Lebech came with us. Today, it is the case that freight forwarders and transport buyers are completely free when there is control and detention of a wagon train or a vehicle in a rest stop. As I said earlier, the proposal has been put forward in order to create some kind of incentive for other links in the transport chain too, namely freight forwarders and transport buyers. After all, freight forwarders in particular are at the heart of such a transport. Why should freight forwarders be different from all other people if they say that now there is a consequence that you do not contribute to good conditions on the roads? Why should freight forwarders be different from other people in this context?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511191339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511191340	I expect proper freight forwarders to ensure that agreements are made with road hauliers who comply with the legislation. Those freight forwarders who are not decent will probably also not take it very seriously that the penalty and the fine are being tightened up. So I think it might be a measure that has no value. Of course, I expect Danish freight forwarders to comply with the legislation. There are, of course, some who do not, but it is hardly the ones we are going to hit with this measure. I don't believe that. However, it could be exciting during the committee work whether you could come up with quite different options to ensure that all the transport taking place in Denmark takes place according to the rules. Of course, we are also prepared to participate in this work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511191425	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511191427	This is, after all, about the working conditions offered by foreign drivers, not least. They are under all criticism, as has been said time and time again. And there you see that people in Denmark, i.e. people in the Danish transport chain, freight forwarders and transport buyers, do not care what is going on on the road, as long as the transport is cheap. We have therefore seen a number of examples of this, i.e. where the police have detained a vehicle and tried to recover the fine or obtain a guarantee of the fine, and where both freight forwarders and transport buyers wash their hands in that situation. The foreign carrier must take care of that. There's the confidence that Danish freight forwarders are decent. Yeah, you'd always have to say that in a situation like that. Experience has shown that they may not all be. First of all, they are looking for cheap transport because they are in very, very fierce competition within the industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511191520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511191520-2	Even now there is the possibility of confiscating the tractor, as I understand it, and it also gives discomfort to freight forwarders with delays and the like. I think we have to find another way to go, and we certainly do not believe in the proposal here and cannot support it. But we are open to the possibility of finding other ways of ensuring that the transport carried out on Danish roads is in order. I am so naive that if I had a freight forwarder company and wanted to make sure it was a proper company, I simply would not enter with bad hauliers. But I admit it can come from my Jutlandic naivety.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511191557	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511191610	The threat of financial losses is just a fine tool when it comes to raising companies, and it is, I think, a pity to think, that freight forwarders and big hauliers are laughing all the way to the bank in Warsaw, Bucharest or Vilnius. The ability to detain the entire wagon train will have an effect immediately throughout the industry. Sneaky companies that violate transport regulations and keep drivers like those who are reminiscent of modern slaves must be disciplined through a highly sought-up work by the trade union movement, increased efforts by the police and, in the SF's view, also by tightening up the law. The SF may support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511191700	Thank you. There are no brief comments. As the Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, not present, we move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511191732	Thank you for the debate on the motion for a resolution. There was quite a good commitment, I think, although it is a re-submission. I explained this when questions were asked, because of course we still believe that the need is there and that there is a lack of incentives for freight forwarders, as I mentioned, transport buyers and, for that matter, also some major hauliers to comply with the rules and to help ensure good pay and working conditions for drivers around, but it is also, of course, to ensure road safety and to ensure fair competition. As you know, the transport industry, and especially the truck transport industry, is a very, very hard-to-compete industry, and there is no doubt that drivers and drivers' pay and working conditions are being used as a competitive parameter, and thus road safety is also being reduced. No doubt about it. A number of rapporteurs have also addressed many of the issues in this, so I do not need to explain all aspects. However, it is true that with this proposal we are trying to go after the goose-eyes, so I would like to stress the backers, i.e. other links in the transport chain than the foreign hauliers and drivers, who are often checked when they are pulled over and who can then detain the tractor. So this is an attempt to create a preventive effect. This is also what it is felt to have already come out of it in Sweden, where they have the opportunity, as they say in Sweden. Looks like it. The rapporteur shows a picture When you clamp a vehicle in Sweden, there will be a wheel lock on it, and then that vehicle will not be able to drive anywhere, and so the semi-trailer will not be able to do so if it is fitted with wheel clippers. Today we had an expert meeting, to which some have also referred, in which we tried to clarify some of the legal aspects which have existed and which have also been mentioned earlier, when Enhedslisten has been advanced with this proposal. That was also the reason why we asked for this expert meeting. And I am pleased with the statements made by the Socialists and the Danish People's Party that we should probably try to work a little further on this in the committee work, so that we will have it thoroughly clarified and find out if it is right when the Ministry of Justice says that there are some major problems with it. There is no doubt that the moment it has been raised as a problem is, of course, a problem, but the question is whether one can get out of it. In any case, the conclusion of one of the lawyers at the expert meeting today was that if a semi-trailer is to be withheld, there must of course be a change of law, and it may well be a change of law on the road haulage law on the same footing as what we decided when we decided to withhold the vehicle. So there is no legal problem with that. Then there is the whole question of proportionality and so on. etc. It depends on how much account is taken of the co-responsibility which can be claimed, and which is quite difficult to claim, if you take it according to the criminal law's co-responsibility. However, when we talk about proportionality, it is of course in the light of whether we believe that freight forwarders, transport buyers, etc. etc. It is a responsibility for ensuring that road transport is not only safe for road safety, but also on acceptable pay and working conditions for drivers. We know that this is not the case today for many foreign drivers who drive cabotage, nor for those drivers who drive third-country or international services. We know that working conditions are miserable. I believe that if the Danish transport industry could contribute to the fact that it could be just something better or start to look like Danish conditions, it would be very good, at least not least when we talk about cabotage, which is indeed domestic driving. So, in the light of the debate here, I am really looking forward to the work of the committee. In fact, I think there are some opportunities for us to agree. In any case, we agree to make this clearer. We must also work a little quickly, because now we are once again in need of time in relation to the parliamentary deadline for the summer holidays, so we must try to speed up this work, and then we must try to have a major meeting of experts, where the Minister of Justice and his officials also meet, so that we can hear their more significant objections and so that they are exposed to the opinions of lawyers and lawyers of the profession and perhaps criticism of the way in which the Ministry of Justice views it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511192239	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. Then there's a second round for Mr. Knox. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511192257	I regret the need for a second round. Sir. Karsten Hønge was a little quicker to finish his rapporteur's speech than I could run down here, but I would like to thank him for the motion for a resolution, which we will be voting against, because we actually believe that it is unreasonable for customers to pay for the infringement of legislation or other rules by road hauliers. It is a very regulated area that we have, and one can argue for it or against it. Perhaps we think that there are already quite tough sanctions in this area. Those are some very, very large fines that the hauliers can get, which is why we think it is already hard enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511192342	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511192403	The debate is open. It's the Minister of Transport and Building first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511192425	Thank you, Madam President. Let me begin by thanking you for the motion for a resolution. The proposers require the Government to set up a task force to monitor the commercial carriage of passengers by Uber. According to the comments, it must consist of representatives of, for example: Traffic and Building Agency, SKAT and the National Police Department. The aim is to ensure that commercial passenger transport is carried out on the basis of Uber's concept in accordance with the taxi law and other relevant legislation. The proposers believe that Uber's driving leads to distortions of competition, to tax revenues and to road safety. I agree, of course, with the objectives mentioned here. The taxi industry should not be exposed to illegal competition from taxi driving and the State should not be evaded from tax revenue and there should be no driving that goes beyond road safety. Let me now say that the creation of a task force for the control of a single company and its related activities is far-reaching. Furthermore, I do not see what such a task force should contribute, which is not already happening today. I have a fundamental confidence that the country's authorities will carry out their tasks in the best possible way and that they will work together when necessary. The Danish Transport and Construction Agency has, as I think most of the people present in this room are familiar with the reported Uber to the police, the same day Uber established himself in Denmark. The Ministry of Justice has stated that, according to the police, Uber drivers use their own cars and that there are no special features that immediately identify them as Uber drivers. Therefore, in the case of regular routine checks or other targeted traffic interventions, such as: relating to lamps or driving errors. Thus, the police do not carry out traffic interventions specifically targeted by Uber drivers. I also know that until 29 March, the Copenhagen Police Department has charged a total of 37 people in connection with Uberdrifts. On the six pending criminal proceedings against Uber drivers, I can inform you that the cases were dealt with at the Copenhagen City Court on 26 April this year. As far as I understand, the proceedings have been suspended because, on the one hand, the hearing took longer than the time allotted, and, on the other hand, there is a desire to hold a joint vote on the six cases together in addition to the examination of them individually. However, the criminal proceedings fall within the jurisdiction of the Minister for Justice and I would therefore like to refer to him for details of the proceedings. As far as the future is concerned, the Ministry of Justice has stated that the police will consider the action in this area further once a decision has been taken in the courts in the pending test cases against Uber drivers. I have to refer again to the Minister for Justice for details of police resources and the priority of action. As regards the control of SKAT, SKAT is not, as a general rule, entitled to stop cars on the roads on its own initiative. On the other hand, in connection with their roadside checks, the police can ensure that SKAT is given the opportunity to talk to the driver of the car for their examination of the driver's tax situation. I should like to refer to the Minister for Taxation about the activities of SKAT in this area. In addition, I would like to say that taxi regulation is generally not up to date today. There is too narrow a framework for the industry, for the industry to be able to develop, for growth to come, and for customers to have more varied services. Therefore, the industry itself wants a new taxi legislation. I have called all the transport rapporteurs for a meeting tomorrow so that we can discuss the possibilities of a new regulation. In conclusion, on the basis of what I have said, I would like to say that it is not my opinion that there is a need to set up a task force. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution and reject the motion for a resolution. But I will say very directly that I look forward to the meeting we will have tomorrow, and I hope that all rapporteurs have the time and opportunity to appear and that we there can try to find a model with those who have proposed different models for how we move forward. On the other hand, I believe that this will take us much further along the path which I also understand several of the authors of the motion for a resolution wish to see. I am also of the opinion, as I have already said, that we must do everything we can, but that should be done by discussing precisely the proposals that have been made on how we can create new taxi legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511192913	Sir. Henning Hyllested has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511192917	I do not see what this resolution and a special effort against Uber or Uber drivers have to do with a new taxi legislation. Uber has their business model, and it is that you drive completely without permission. Whether you are a driver, a fake self-employed person, or whatever you are called in that business model, you drive without permission and without meeting the requirements of drivers, hauliers and cars that we otherwise impose when dealing with passenger transport. I do not imagine that, regardless of the outcome of the negotiations on a new taxi law, there should be no requirement for passenger transport in this country. And as long as there is even the slightest demand, Uber will be violating the law. So I don't even see what this has to do with each other. Uber is today violating all the rules and laws, and that is why I think it is very sensible to say that we are now going to make an extra effort. After all, it is something new that was established in 2014 and it has taken on quite a huge scale, first and foremost here in Copenhagen. And it is already noticeable; the various taxi drivers have felt a clear reduction in their income, especially at weekends.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511193047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511193049	Well, I think it's wise now that we're having that discussion. I also think it is wise that we should take it with those who have tabled the proposals. As to who is convicted and the police's efforts, I just have to say that it is the Minister of Justice to whom you have to address your call.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511193103	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511193105	I am well aware that there is such an attempt to drag it out and get around it by referring to others. One might wonder why a fine was not imposed on these Uber drivers from the very beginning. This would be done in any other situation where, if I may say so, you have waved a pirate taxi or someone driving a pirate car to the side; then you would simply present the person with a ticket, and then it was... beaten. This has not been done here; here we have chosen to run a trial, for some strange reason. And you can only see it as an attempt to drag things out. But I would like to ask the Minister again: what does this have to do with a new taxi legislation? This is a matter of driving in violation of all the rules.That is why the Danish Road Traffic Authority reported Uber at the time. And that is why we believe that action is needed to put an end to this, given that it has taken the scale it has.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511193202	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511193204	Well, again, I just have to say: I'm not going to comment on what falls under the Ministry of Justice. And it does this about why you haven't chosen the different options around the penalty, yes. So, sir. Henning Hyllested will have to ask the questions to the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511193219	Thank you, Minister. We shall now proceed to the first rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Prehn of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511193240	On the socialist side, we welcome this opportunity to discuss the situation in the taxi industry very much. There is no doubt that there are major problems with unfair competition and social dumping in the taxi sector. We have all heard about the problems with Uber, but there are also a number of other problems: there is something called Haxi and there are also pirate taxis, among others. We in Aalborg, where I myself have been elected, have had problems with gang criminals who have been running what can be described as pirattaxa, so there are big problems out there. We also find that among the real taxi drivers, if I may say so, there is a very great deal of concern as to whether they can continue to have a legal profession, whether it is possible to continue to make a living driving a taxi, when there are all these different new opportunities that arise and when there are no controls on it. Nor is it a secret that the whole question of how to create a task force where special surveillance can be put on, in relation to what is happening in this area, being monitored, what is happening in the whole taxi area, and getting that knowledge gathered and perhaps also getting police reports in the places where crime is taking place, is something that we ourselves, on the Socialist side, have mentioned as an opportunity. When we had the big question debate, it was part of the text adopted by the Social Democratic Party together with the alternative that we saw before us that there was to be a task force. The task force we proposed at the time was a task force with a broader scope. It was a task force which had to monitor and deal with all the problems in the taxi sector, so it could also be market players other than Uber specifically. So the aforementioned pirate taxis from Aalborg could also be some of the ones you would intervene against. We have great sympathy for the resolution put forward here by the three parties; there are good tactics in it. But what we want from the Social Democrats is to use this as an opportunity to negotiate with the government about the future taxi law, where we also want to discuss, on the social democratic side, in addition to the new taxi law, what we are doing in terms of enforcing the taxi legislation currently in force. This is something we would like to take to the negotiations that will be tomorrow in the Ministry of Transport at 8 p.m. 15. In addition, we have the view that, when we make a new law, we should have a clearer set of rules. The course we have been through with the courts and other matters in relation to the Uber case shows very clearly that it is difficult to interpret these things. So if you could spell out more clearly how these rules should be interpreted, how they should be respected, we would think it was really positive. What we are also taking to the negotiations is that we want a regulatory framework that ensures more clearly that we have arranged conditions in the taxi industry. We cannot live with the social dumping that is taking place at the moment, so we want social dumping as a requirement too. Finally, there are a lot of other reasons for discussing new taxi law than those that are precisely about social dumping and the issue of Uber. There are also all the wishes that are from the industry. We know that the Danish Taxi Council and others have a desire to create public limited companies and a number of other things. So we will enter into these negotiations constructively. It is so clear that if the government does not deliver the things we want, we will continue along the way of the motion for a resolution, and we look forward to the committee work being able to work with Enhedslisten, the Socialist People's Party and the Danish People's Party on this, but it will then be in committee work. We would imagine that we could land on a report or something else, where we would also have the opportunity to spread out this task force, so that we do not have a single target for one company, but can also spread it out about the problems that might otherwise be in the industry. But we are basically positive about many thoughts in this, but start by taking the fight at the negotiations tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511193734	Sir. Henning Hyllested for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511193740	It was quite a retreat, as I heard it. I understand that the Socialists are not immediately voting in favour of this resolution. The rapporteur himself referred to what was said earlier in the debate on the question. I do not know whether to read out what is in the proposal for adoption by the Social Democrats and the Alternative:... that the [government] ensures effective enforcement of the Danish taxi law and payment of tax, inter alia: by setting up a task force. This is very similar to what SF, Dansk Folkeparti and Enhedslisten suggested. May I ask: what really has happened since then? When we tabled our motion for a resolution, this happened in the wake of the debate on the question, because we could see that there were two proposals for adoption in which none of them obtained a majority, but both proposals included a question of setting up a task force. That's why it's straight to the right leg. If you want to combat social dumping in the taxi sector, I suppose this is the resolution that needs to be endorsed and not negotiated with the government about a new taxi law. What does that have to do with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511193858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511193900	The Enhedslisten's rapporteur is quite right to say that if the Danish People's Party had chosen to vote in favour of the adoption text tabled by the Social Democrats and the Alternative, there would have been a majority in the Danish Parliament to set up a task force, but of course to feel a task force that looks more broadly at the problems of social dumping, tax fraud and other things and does not pinpoint a single, concrete company and say that that is where the problem is. There may be very serious problems with the company in question, I shall not rule that out at all, but there are other companies that are woolly on the edge, and there are pirate taxis, gang criminals and other things, and that is what we want to bring with us. We say many positive things about this motion for a resolution, and we also mention, I would like to say to Mr Seligman. Henning Hyllested that in the committee work we would like to discuss these things with the parties behind this resolution. So there's no reason for us to talk away from each other. The socialist approach is that we need to talk about these things. We believe that there is much more gathering us together than separating us, and I would be very sorry if Enhedslisten were to use the forces here to create divisions in relation to what is the aim, namely to combat social dumping in the taxi industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511194017	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511194019	Despite all poetry, it is not Enhedslisten, SF and Dansk Folkeparti that in any way creates division or talks us away from each other. It is the Socialists who will no longer stand by what they have meant in the past in connection with the question debate. The current taxi legislation and taxi regulations are luminously clear when it comes to what is illegal and what is not illegal. And I have no doubt about that, and neither was the Social Democrats until a few days ago or 14 days ago, or when it was that Uber represents social dumping of the worst, of the worst class. It is about both pay and working conditions, about the conditions for those who drive, but it is also about the fact that it is a black economy and that no tax is paid etc. There is no requirement whatsoever for cars, drivers or road hauliers in the enterprise.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511194111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511194112	I'm sharing a lot along the way, sir. Henning Hyllested's indignation over this area. I can also be a plane cursed to see how some people cheat on the rules we set up. I also find this deeply, deeply unacceptable. What I am appealing to as Social Democrat rapporteur is that we are then fighting together to combat this social dumping rather than to talk us away from each other. Sir. Henning Hyllested himself chose to read out the text of the adoption proposed by the Alternative and the Social Democratic Party a few weeks ago, and it is quite clear that it is a task force to combat tax fraud and social dumping, but a more general task force rather than a task force targeted at a specific company. What I am trying to say in all silence is that we would like to cooperate with Enhedslisten to ensure orderly conditions in the taxi industry, and we will do so in committee. But in the first place it will be through these negotiations that we will try to get our influence through.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511194208	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511194212	I think I'm gonna be a little uncomfortable hearing Mr. Rasmus Prehn's way around and slip between our fingers now, because then there was one thing wrong during the question debate, and now something else is wrong. The SF ended up voting in favour of the Social Democrats' motion for a resolution on the day we had the question debate. It was then unable to obtain a majority, and we will then end up cutting to the bone and finding a proposal which must be able to receive social democratic support. That is an unusual socialist argument, I think, to say: we would rather have had one that was broader, one that had even more to do with, and then could not support something that, after all, has been cut sharply with regard to the challenges we are facing now. Regarding the reference to upcoming taxi negotiations: Well, it's here and now, the challenge is, just out on the streets and alleys, now, as we speak. Then there is a reference and some vague wording to the fact that this is perhaps something to be addressed in the negotiations with the government. That does not solve the problem that exists as we speak. I cannot quite understand why the fact that we have a sharp cut proposal should prevent the Socialists from immediately saying that they are voting in favour, because they would rather have something that was even broader.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511194320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511194322	We were very pleased that the Socialist People's Party, together with the Enhedslisten, voted in favour of our adoption text. We think this was very good and strong, and it marks the cooperation we would like to have to combat the undermining of Danish pay and working conditions that is currently taking place in this area. So we're really happy about that, and I'd like to sign for that. It is therefore also a pity that when you even stand on the side of Enhedslisten and read our text, and SF's sir. Karsten Hønge also refers to it, so anyway chooses to make a resolution which is just as different that you do not choose to make the resolution with the argument that we just spent a lot of time in the question debate, this because we cannot pre-discount what happens in a court of law and other matters and point out a single company we need to have a broader approach to this because then we could have voted for it here today right away. Now we have to say that yes, let us take a look at it in committee work, and then we will also have to negotiate. In other words, we have chosen to accept that we want better enforcement, including of the current law. Tomorrow we're gonna get to this. So we are acting on this from the Socialist side. We are very concerned that there should be better conditions. Let us work together on this instead of talking away from each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511194439	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511194442	Yeah, I'd love to, too. I'm a little torn up, too. On the one hand, Mr. Rasmus Prehn's words are such a pleasant feeling in the body. It is something about the fact that we are going to meet and we are going to talk about it, but I also sense that the Socialists here may be slipping by our hands. We have made efforts to make a sharp cut-off proposal, so if we want to do something about the reality that is just now and here and next weekend, and that will again take the work of organized drivers working under conditions, then we have to start now instead of throwing it into something more general in a taxi debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511194520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511194523	If we really are to get a hold of the nettle, then it makes great sense to look at the taxi legislation that exists. If it is the case that we can have a debate in which we also bring the current government into this, then there will be quite a different respect about these things than if we just adopt a resolution. If we can get into the negotiations we are starting tomorrow, that enforcement must be far better than what has been the case so far, and if we have a legislative set that is easier and clearer to understand than what has been the case now, when weeks, months and half and whole years have gone by and where nothing has been clarified, then it can also be preferable. We are very concerned about combating the vermin that exists out there, where there is undermining of Danish pay and working conditions. We are in complete agreement on this. It may be that the methods are a little different, but let's work together on this. Let us stick together so that those who want to undermine the Danish labour market are not allowed to let go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511194621	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511194622	I couldn't agree more. Let's stand together. I remember that when we had the question, the Danish People's Party was kissed by 3F and other friends of Rasmus Prehn that we could not support the Social Democracy proposal. We could not, because we had our own, where there was no snitch talk, that we had to look at a new taxi law and make adjustments. That is why we were unable to vote 'yes', and Mr. Rasmus Prehn very well. This has nothing to do with making a new taxi law. What's going on out there is illegal. Sir. Rasmus Prehn must correct me if it has suddenly become legal to drive without a taximeter and without a camera in the car and without a business licence, a taxi driver's card. There's so many things in this. It's completely comparable to pirate driving. But if it requires an amendment to this motion for a resolution, so that we get it formulated a little more broadly, so that it is not just Uber we are going for, but generally hexeries and piracy in this industry, then we are happy to do so. I would like to look at a broader wording, if that is what it takes for S to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511194729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511194731	Some of what I actually really like about sir. Kim Christiansen from the Danish People's Party is precisely this constructive way of using the co-operative popular government to achieve some results. If it is that we can meet on this in committee, then we in the Socialist Group would like to look at it. I also hope that the Danish People's Party, Mr Delors, will take part in this debate. Kim Christiansen will be here tomorrow for the taxi negotiations. For in addition to the huge challenges that are with Uber and with Haxi and other companies where there are problems with pirate taxi driving, there are also a lot of other things that need to be done to get a more up-to-date taxi legislation. There I very much hope that the constructive and accommodating approach that Mr. Kim Christiansen has just presented himself here, also when we sit in the negotiating room tomorrow. Because we should like to make a more clear and more up-to-date taxi legislation forward-looking, which is easier to comply with. I also hope that the Danish People's Party will be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511194831	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511194833	We always come in for negotiations when we are invited, but we will not start to change on a regulated market just to please some wild west people who enter the market and commit illegal acts. We're not gonna do that. That's not the way the world works. It will not be the Danish People's Party that will support a new taxi law where Uber is legalised or normalized. But I just want to hear Mr. Knox. Rasmus Prehn: Can we vote in favour of this proposal if we formulate it a little more broadly, so that it is a task force consisting of SKAT and police generally targeting illegalities in the taxi industry, including Uber?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511194914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511194917	I think it's a little too bad that Mr. Kim Christiansen makes it sound like when we come in for negotiations on new taxi legislation, which is something the taxi industry has been calling for several years, is because we want to open up some wild west types. Now I think we had the constructive dialogue where we tried to find each other, and then Mr. Kim Christiansen to talk about that we will open up wild west types. What we want from the Social Democrats is for there to be a set-up, for taxi drivers to pay taxes and for there to be no social dumping in the area of tariffs. That's what we come in with for these taxi negotiations, and that's where we hope to get support from the Danish People's Party when we meet tomorrow at noon. 15.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511195000	Thanks to Rasmus Prehn. There are no more brief comments, so I propose that we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511195022	Thank you for that, President. The motion for a resolution here proposes the creation of a task force to monitor the commercial carriage of passengers by Uber, a task force with actors from, for example, the United Kingdom. Traffic and Building Agency, SKAT and the National Police Department. The Left agrees with the authors of the motion for a resolution on the importance of ensuring orderly conditions and fair competition in transport, and this also applies, of course, to commercial passenger transport, also referred to as the taxi sector. However, the creation of a task force will not add value to the work of the authorities. In contrast, it may become an administrative burden on the relevant authorities because additional resources are sucked out for meeting activities, etc. It is therefore a clear task for the police and courts to ensure the enforcement of applicable law, including the taxi law. Let me be very clear: the law must be kept; we owe it to the many citizens and businesses in Denmark. It is important that we ensure a solid legal basis for fair competition, compliance with tax legislation and safety for passengers. However, the authorities are already working together on the important monitoring of compliance with existing legislation. Police detect Uberdrifts by regular routine checks and other targeted traffic interventions here in Copenhagen, and per year. March 29th, 37 Uber drivers have been charged. So it was six weeks ago, and we have to assume that some more have come to the side. However, we are still waiting for clarification in the city court on the pending business passenger transport cases, and it is of course now important to take due care to ensure that things are done in the right order. So we have one case that is about the current law being enforced, and that is a task for the police and the courts, and it is running its course. Then we have the forward-looking and there I fully agree with the Socialists that we also need to look forward. Because we need to modernise the taxi legislation; it rightly demands the taxi industry. We must have legislation for professional passenger transport, which takes account of technological developments, which create room for innovation and progress, which create room for new dynamism in the taxi industry, which ensures fair competition and which also ensures good taxi coverage both in the cities and in the countryside; that is something we must not forget in this context. Here, too, the government and the Left are in their working clothes, and I look forward very much to negotiating a new taxi bill in the coming weeks starting tomorrow at 9 a.m. 15. And, of course, the aim is to reach a broad agreement on how to ensure a good basis for professional passenger transport in Denmark, where we look into the future, where there are some basic rules that must be respected by everyone, including, for example, paying taxes, security for passengers, etc., so that no one misses where the burden is lowest. So it is important that we see these two elements of the case: the enforcement of the current law, which is done by police and courts, and the forward-looking, which starts tomorrow at 1 p.m. 15. The Left cannot support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511195402	Sir. Henning Hyllested has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511195405	Much is referred to in this debate or in the very small part of the debate we have had so far both by the Socialist rapporteur and now by the rapporteur of the Left to this new taxi legislation. May I ask directly: will there be room in the Left for a new taxi law for Uber's business model?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511195428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511195429	We will go in and make some basic demands that we will put forward at the negotiating table. We do not want to negotiate here in Parliament. I think that the best results will come out of it when we sit around a negotiating table and hear the table around what the parties are involved with. However, our recording for this is that there must be some basic universal requirements... you could also call it a universal permit... to carry out commercial passenger transport services, and that will include... include the unconditional guarantee that the income will be taxed. And there will be a large number of other requirements for such a permit. But we will do so in a way that allows space and space for new technology, new ways of organizing ourselves and, for example, for new technologies. new forms of company within the industry to ensure dynamics. However, we need to have some basic requirements to ensure that there is fair competition and orderly conditions. And I'm not gonna stand here negotiating on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511195522	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511195525	I interpret that as meaning that there is no room for Uber and the way Uber has arranged itself, at least with the knowledge we have of Uber today, when they are driving without permission for anything, either for drivers or for their cars or anything. So if the Left believes that some way or another, at some level, needs to be required in connection with a new taxi legislation, then there is no room for Uber. Then I cannot understand why we continue to talk about the fact that it is not right now to set up a task force which could solve the existing problem in relation to the current taxi legislation, because Uber has grown so big that it is a huge problem now and here for the taxi drivers who are today trying to get a livelihood out of being a taxi driver or trucker.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511195614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511195615	On the other hand, I do not understand why it has become such a mantra for the Enhedslisten with a task force when we have a police force working on the streets when we have courts where the case is running. So we're on the move. I don't even understand the focus on a task force now. Let us, then, focus on the fact that, in the future, we will have this cleaned up and harmonised taxi legislation. It's not like we're making a new taxi law because of Uber. No, we make a new taxi law, and then the operators who are must see if they can adapt their business model so that they can work legally in Denmark. And if they can't, they have nothing to do here. If they can adapt their business model to comply with the law, they are warmly welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511195653	Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511195722	I have to say that I am very surprised by the Socialist rapporteur and the speech from up here. I am deeply surprised that the Socialist rapporteur cannot endorse the resolution as it stands. As Mr. Karsten Hønge has already pointed out that the motion for a resolution was an attempt to cut the two previous proposals for adoption, which were presented in our question debate, so that everyone could vote in favour of it. Nevertheless, we have to note that the Socialists now find another excuse for not being able to endorse it at once. I think that is strange, also because then the Social Democrats could have gone into the process at the time and helped to formulate the motion for a resolution. In fact, the Socialists were invited to do so. There was a very, very hard deadline, and you weren't able to do that. All right, but then we would have expected, of course, that we could vote in favour of the resolution when it is before us. I have to ask again: what has actually happened? Because if we take the debate in connection with the question debate, but also with the public debate, in which the Socialists have also participated, and where the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has also taken part. Rasmus Prehn, has participated, both before and for that matter, also after the question debate, so I have clearly got the impression that the Socialists were very keen to help combat social dumping in the taxi sector. And then you can talk a lot about the fact that there are other companies, for example. Haxi, as far as I know, they have stopped their business and then there is regular pirate driving, as has always been the case. But we all know that it is Uber who is the problem today. It is Uber who has come to since November 2014 who has grown huge and who today and here poses a problem for the taxi industry. However, this poses a specific problem for drivers and road hauliers who have to see their income drop, if I may say so, day by day or at least weekend by weekend. You pull money out of the pockets of those who are today trying to make a living in the taxi industry. And it is completely incomprehensible that the Socialists will not just help to make a dedicated and focused effort in the form of a task force. This would be done during the debate on the question. That you don't want to say that it's okay with the task force and thus make a focused effort, as we also know from the construction industry, where you have, of course, the task force, the effort groups, which consist of the Labour Inspectorate, the police and the SKAT. Here we would say that it would be natural that it was the Danish Road Traffic Authority that took part. It is incomprehensible to a party which claims that they are defending the interests of employees that there is no intention here of effectively combating social dumping, in this case in the taxi sector. We can look at the answer, 417 as I think it is Mr. Kim Christiansen, who has received from the Ministry of Justice, clearly points out that there are no road traffic interventions specifically targeted at Uber drivers. It goes without saying that we should do so because Uber has become the huge problem they are. In this regard, I actually understand Mr. Rasmus Prehn, there was a lot of poetry, and it was very difficult to get to what was actually meant to tackle the Uber problem in the negotiations on a new taxi law, so the negotiations actually started tomorrow when we are meeting on new taxi legislation. I think that is completely hopeless. Uber is in full breach of existing taxi legislation. They are today a huge problem, they represent social dumping of the worst kind. As I have said, it is not only in relation to pay and working conditions that they are undermining and undermining, but it is also the fact that it is a black economy, probably, and that they run completely without permission. In this context, I would like to point out that I do not hope that the negotiations on new taxi legislation will mean a break in this area exactly with the legislation that exists. If you read in the Order, i.e. the Taxi Driving Act, § 1, first paragraph, you can see that it says that the person carrying out commercial passenger transport, taxi services, limousine services, medical transport and public service, with a Danish registered motor vehicle designed for the transport of no more than nine persons, including the driver, must be permitted to do so. It is clear from the taxi regulation that in the case of a commercial passenger transport operation, the transport of a maximum of nine persons by the driver is to be taken into account for the carriage of a maximum of nine persons without a link with the person, undertaking or association carrying out or carrying out the journey or for the purpose of payment of compensation for the costs associated with the operation, e.g.: the costs of petrol or oil shall not be considered as remuneration. And then, in fact, there is also a clear provision on what co-driving is. The current legislation, the current regulation, is quite clear in this area, so it is actually just going to war, if I may say so. However, I cannot get a clear commitment from the Socialists that they are helping to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511200307	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511200311	It's just before I'm having a hard time getting up after this bullshit and arson from Mr. Knox. Henning Hylllested. I'll tell you, sir. Henning Hyllested goes to the steel, and if the rapporteur had spent a little more time listening to what we actually said, rather than being busy rapping down on the Social Democracy, then I actually think we would be able to come up with a common understanding. What the Socialists are going to go to these taxi negotiations with is the following, and now I am trying to read out what our positions are: we will demand the government to enforce the taxi legislation in force. This applies, for example, to: in relation to the service Uber. We want to see whether the law should be clarified. It is important that we have a solid legal basis that leaves no doubt on the interpretation by the authorities. We believe that the legislation must be clear and, above all, long-lasting. We want to secure orderly conditions in the taxi industry that prevent social dumping. It is important that the employees' rights that we have built up in Denmark over the past many years are not undermined. So we are in the process of tackling the root of the nettle already in the taxi negotiations. And there are perfectly clear lines of what we are fighting for. Many of these things, I'm sure, are Enhedslisten and Mr. Henning Hyllested can sign. Let us now fight on the same team to stop the undermining of Danish pay and working conditions that are out there, instead of standing and accusing each other of one thing and the other. We have a unique chance now to draw taxi legislation in the right direction and ensure better enforcement. Let us work together on this instead of shooting at each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511200445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511200448	The rapporteur started by saying that I am talking about social democracy. I do not go down, but of course I am deeply, deeply disappointed, and it is, of course, as the rapporteur also mentioned, because we do not think that tax legislation should be used first and foremost to combat Uber. How long will it take to create a new taxi legislation? How long is it gonna take? And what will happen to the conditions they are on the roads today? When, then, should action be taken against Uber? It was no coincidence that I read out of both the taxi law and the taxi decree. Both are luminously clear in that there is no doubt that Uber is an illegal undertaking, because they run without any of the permits required and they meet the condition that it is passenger transport that is taking place. How can the Socialists be in doubt about this? I understand that a government which would prefer to avoid this problem is going to delay it and ask all kinds of legal questions. But imagine that the Socialists, who would like to be at the forefront of the fight against social dumping, are jumping on that limp and saying that the negotiations or the fight against social dumping are starting with a new taxi legislation. No, it now starts with the taxi legislation in force, and it starts with an action against Uber, which is social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511200604	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511200607	We believe that it is a good idea in a legal society to change the laws so that they are better and easier to comply with. In fact, we think that is a good starting point. But let us now say that Enhedslisten's rapporteur is right in saying that it will be dragging on with these negotiations or that we cannot achieve the results we want and the government will not be involved in combating social dumping in the taxi industry. The Socialists have then made an offer in this Chamber where we have said: let us sit together in committee and then find out how to get this country this resolution in a way that we can agree on. Should we not see the possibilities in the problems rather than the problems in the possibilities? Shouldn't the Enhedslisten go and reach out for the outstretched hand that we from the Socialist side come along with, instead of pushing it away and holding fire speeches and bringing out bullies?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511200653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511200655	Before a new taxi legislation can be adopted, the way in which the motion for a resolution passes through the committee and the way in which it is dealt with will in any case take place, I am very much in favour of it. So, in any case, the Socialists will have to take a position on this. Sir. Rasmus Prehn reiterates that it is a matter of creating order through legislation. Well, the legislation currently in force is quite clear, I would say to Mr. Rasmus Prehn. That's why I read it. And I am also of the opinion that Mr. Rasmus Prehn, as I have heard him so far, agrees with me that there is no doubt that taxi law and tax regulations are being violated by Uber every day. So why do the Socialists suddenly have concerns about this? New taxi law is to be negotiated. Yes, and it's going to include a hell of a lot of things... no doubt about it. However, the fight against social dumping must be fought right now, because it is right now that we have the problem of Uber, which means a severe reduction in the income of both road hauliers and drivers, as well as a deterioration in and miserable working conditions in order to drive a taxi.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511200809	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511200820	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance is one of the parties that welcomes new innovative companies that, through new technology, will be able to produce the services offered to our citizens, and we therefore see no reason to create a specific guard to follow Uber's business. As you know, we have the competent authorities to do so, and a new body will therefore only be able to have symbolic significance. That may in fact be the intention too. I don't really know. However, it seems reasonable to overkill that a task force should be set up by law to keep an eye on a single company with name mention. It is, after all, just before you get memories of the biker law or the Trend law and the constitutional problems caused by these laws. No, we are certainly on the wrong road here, and if it turns out that this cheaper form of transport, which is both resource-friendly as all the other parts of the economy, and sensible for employment for groups which normally find it difficult to get a foothold on the labour market, is illegal, then of course we have to change the law. And thank you for the Minister's decision to do so, and thank you for inviting us to tomorrow's taxi meeting, which has already been mentioned. As legislator, we should not prevent development, but support it, because only by doing so will we have a richer society. What if we had by law maintained a labour market for typographers, for shipyard workers in Nakskov and Helsingør? We would not have gotten richer by that. Similarly, with the protected taxi industry, which we are now dealing with, it must of course also be modernised and not abandoned as a rudiment from a past time. The Liberal Alliance will, of course, vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511201021	Thank you, sir. Villum Christensen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Roger Matthiesen from the Alternative. Then I guess I'd better ask you, just in case... Roger Matthiesen wants to be addressed to Roger, i.e. Danish pronunciation, or Roger, i.e. Danish-English pronunciation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511201048	A third model is Roger, i.e. English pronunciation. I'd like that one. Thank you, Mr President. The proposal is aimed at setting up a task force to ensure that Uber does not operate illegally in Denmark. In the alternative, we agree with the proposers that we need to clarify Uber's business model, whether or not to what extent they violate Danish legislation. But we are also concerned about finding a gifted way of dealing with it so that we make sure that Uber complies with Danish legislation, and at the same time we have to ensure that Danish legislation is future-proof, so that it is geared to meet these new technologies, which will undoubtedly continue to emerge as our society is digitised. For us in the Alternative, it is not only about Uber's concrete work but also about the fundamental nature of the matter. Uber is giving rise to a heated discussion. I have just witnessed that now, also outside Christiansborg, among those who already deal with passenger transport, and I have great sympathy for that. In the alternative, we have already stated that we do not consider Uber to be a shared economic initiative, and the share economy can result in us using our resources in a much more efficient way than we do today. We believe that we need to acknowledge that. Today we have a car park where an average car stands still 96 percent. of the time, and when it is in motion, there is only 1 person in the car. If we can make better use of our resources in our society and at the same time think about the environment, then we are preoccupied with it in the Alternative. That is why the discussion about Uber is of an elementary nature, and it is crucial for us to find sensible solutions to secure legislation, but also to ensure that we are open to new innovative solutions and digital platforms. In relation to Uber's business model, I would say: yes, thank you, we would like to have a task force set up. At the same time, we must recognise that current legislation must respect the division of power. So we'd like to wait for what the courts say. We believe that the resolution is too narrowly defined by one company. In Denmark, we need to maintain the ambition of being an open and innovative country where there is room to take advantage of the opportunities that constantly arise with new ideas and new platforms. We therefore support the setting up of a task force, which we support in committee, but we cannot support it in its present form.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511201350	Sir. Henning Hyllested has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511201352	Yeah, it's kind of more general. I agree that sharing car concepts can be very good. I think the rapporteur has a very good point about our car park standing still for most of the time, and when it runs, it runs with 1.1 per cent or a very small car coating. It is hopeless, and that is why the car has to be fundamentally at the back. So there is no majority for that in the Folketing, I have noted up to several times. But there, after all, I believe that the Alternative and Enhedslisten are allies far along the way. The rapporteur is also committed to new technology in this area, and there are some services that are gaining ground and that will have to be dealt with in some way. I fully agree with that, and I think we have only seen the beginning. However, does the rapporteur not agree that there can certainly also be threats when we talk about this kind of new technology and that Uber is actually a very good example of it. Uber is not just an app; Uber is also a driving service, which, in my opinion, is a criminal offence against the legislation in force.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511201510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511201511	Thank you for the question from the rapporteur. Yes, we fully agree that there are problems to be addressed in relation to Uber's business model in Denmark. But I must stress once again that our courts are dealing with this. And we have just heard our Transport Minister say that the police will review their efforts in this area once they have clarified their position and received a verdict on Uber through the courts. So yes, I agree that this is problematic. But I also agree that we have to wait for what the courts say.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511201548	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511201550	We certainly do not disagree on that in principle. But has the rapporteur been struck by the fact that the Copenhagen Police, which this is all about, took a very, very long time to get into gear? Despite many enquiries from taxi drivers and hauliers, they took a very, very long time to get into gear, and it was actually only at the end of last year, up to the turn of the year in 2015, that they started busting Uber drivers. Has the rapporteur been struck by the fact that this could also have been a delay? At least that is the impression that taxi drivers have when they turn to me. In fact, they believe that the order has been given in the Copenhagen Police or higher up: take it easy, we need to look at it all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511201644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511201646	Thank you again for the question. No, it hasn't hit me. Now I'm not an expert on police cases, overcrowding and treatment, so I don't want to be smart about that at all. That must be enough for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511201704	Thank you, sir. Roger Matthisen. There are no more comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Johannes Lebech of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511201721	The Radical Left cannot support the creation of a task force. It is mentioned that it may consist of SKAT, police and others. We believe that it is not appropriate at this stage to set up such a special task force. It will be resource-intensive and we cannot support that. However, we can of course support Uber's having to comply with the existing rules, including all the tax rules and other rules applicable to passenger transport, as things now stand, and we can also see that there are several legal cases under way in which the legal situation will be clarified. It may so annoy you that the trials that are there will be postponed. It is probably something that has taken care of a number of Uber people quite well. I think it's interesting to have this discussion. It has been going on for a long time, and I also know that it has been here in the Folketing. It probably also goes down into different groups where there is rather disagreement about the concept of Uber. I also personally have a very divided relationship with Uber as such. Perhaps I have a split relationship with the whole concept, the new technology and the new shared economy. I can also have a split relationship with the fact that the City of Copenhagen has forced me to install an app where I have to turn on a small disc and press a lot of buttons and get into an app to park somewhere in Copenhagen. In fact, the City of Copenhagen has forced me to do so, and it costs a lot every time I, as a jyde, am over to visit Copenhagen. But it is the developments that are taking place now. That's what happens at Airbnb. There are so many things on the way because we have the small mobile in our pockets, and we have to be prepared for that, including those of us who are old and conservative, otherwise the young people will choose with the app if you can use that expression. Then we can stand and scream as much, and we can legislate as much and put in as many task forces as we want. I'm not sure we can stop that development. We can probably make legislation that can adapt to it, but this is going fast, and we have to realise that, including those of us who are old and conservative and perhaps would rather have it as it always has been. I think that will be the discussion we need to take now that we are about to have new legislation in this area. It may not even be a new taxi legislation; it may be a legislation on passenger transport in Denmark that we are about to have instead. That is not something I am saying because I think it is particularly good. Nor do I know whether the hotel industry thinks it is good that Airbnb exists, but that is the challenge we are facing, and I think we should recognise that in the work we have here in the Folketing, because we can probably only have legislation that can reasonably adapt to the rapid development that is taking place. However, the present proposal on the task force cannot be supported in the motion for a resolution before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511202012	Sir. Henning Hyllested has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511202014	I understand that the rapporteur does not of course believe that increased efforts are appropriate, and that is of course something to be wondered about. However, as I have pointed out in the past, this is a problem which exists now and here and which actually means that there are drivers and hauliers who are currently seeing their income falling sharply. I mean, when I drive with taxi drivers here in Copenhagen and I do that often they all tell me unsolicited and independent of each other that every weekend they can see that they have between 2,000 and 4,000 kroner. less with home. Well, that's gonna make you feel better if you stretch it over a whole month or a whole year. That is why this is a problem, and that is why I am a little concerned about the remarks made by the rapporteur on the subject of new legislation, and I think that we will have to adapt. Does this mean that the rapporteur agrees that we are adapting, that the new technology is being used for social dumping, that it is being used, as it were, to pluck the bread out of people's mouths, that it is being used to reduce their working conditions, so that they have to sit and drive around in the taxis hours after hour, 24 hours or almost every day, which is also a major danger to road safety? Is this a development which the rapporteur thinks is sensible and is that what the rapporteur means by, as well as adapting the legislation to the developments that we cannot stop anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511202133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511202135	I'd like to say to Mr. Henning Hyllested, that I have not said that this development is sensible, and I have certainly not swung up to the praise of the Liberal Alliance for freedom and development. I am just trying to be realistic in this area and to realise that this is the challenge we are facing and that, if we do not take up this challenge, we will be overtaken. Because things are moving fast in this area, and we're being overtaken by the generation that's younger than us. I fully understand that the taxi industry is under threat and all the consequences it has, and I fully agree that it has some negative consequences. What I just want to draw attention to, when we are discussing this a little broadly, we are not just talking about a task force, because then I could settle for just one sentence: we will have to take this into account, and it will have to be included in the legislation we are about to make. Because otherwise I think we're just gonna be overtaken once more in this whole area. My example of the parking app was, in fact, an example of the public authorities taking part in this wave by forcing people who are +60 to be able to park with apps. It is not always fun for them to install it, but it makes public authorities well away. So we are facing a challenge and I fully agree with the alternative. They look so positive that there can be some sharing opportunities out of it. Perhaps I am more realistic and just saying that this is a future we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511202303	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511202305	In this case, it's not a business that disappears. The taxi industry still exists, and it will probably do so in both 5 and 10 years' time. However, it is a question of changing working conditions and conditions of earnings to lower conditions. In other words, they switch to something that is far below the demands we are making today on the industry, and that is what I think we should take a position on. I fully agree that development cannot be halted, it is going on, but that is also why I would like to know whether the rapporteur also believes that it needs to be supplemented, if I may say so, with some effort, so that we stick to the demands that we as a society make of an industry. We make very, very large and comprehensive demands on the taxi industry, and we do so both to ensure that it is a professional product, but also that it is a safe industry, including road safety, that it is transparent and that prices are transparent and to deal with it. I would like to see these demands, for example. I believe that this development must be supplemented by action, that is to say by the task force, which the rapporteur does not think is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511202426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511202427	Radical Left believes that this task force is not necessary at this stage. However, we are in favour of future legislation in this area, and we must then see how we can maintain the positive elements of the taxi legislation that we now have, combined with the technology that exists. What I have to say quite realistically is that it will be difficult and I think it will be a very big task, but that is what we have to take on, because we have to be at the forefront of developments. I'd like to give Mr. Henning Hyllested is right that it is but it is going so fast that I think we have to realise that the new technology must somehow be included in the legal passenger transport services in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511202516	Thank you, sir. Johannes Lebech. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to sir. Karsten Hønge for SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511202530	Stone by stone the foundations of the welfare society are being tried apart. One day it is the underpaid staff of Ryanair, the other day it is the Eastern European drivers who live and work in the cabs for weeks... modern slavery can be called it without difficulty... and the third day drivers are competing with orderly conditions out of their cars by Uber drivers, who of course can drive a little cheaper when the car is not equipped for professional passenger transport, and when drivers are probably not paying taxes on all the money, and they certainly do not have the necessary training. Well, it's just an app, say some and some more than others, and here I would say in particular that Mr. Johannes Lebech of the Radicals is advocating the completely fundamental misunderstanding that this is about an app. No, it's about what the app is for. So the thing about saying that oh no, it's just an app that's development, there's nothing to do about it, and it's also the young people who are kind of causing it, and we as old people just have to sit back and give up is basically a misunderstanding. Because it is true that you come up with all sorts of smart things on phones, and I understand that parking in Copenhagen also gives the radical rapporteur great wrestling, but that is just not what this is all about. It's about what to use this app for, and in this context it's used to systematically and consistently undermine the orderly, civilised and regulated conditions for the taxi industry here in Copenhagen, and it's used to push wages and working conditions down, that is, social dumping, as it is called in modern Danish. Because it's not just an app. Uber is a frontal clash with the orderly and regulated labour market. Uberdeltide drivers kick like another cuckoo cub others out of the nest and leave ordinary drivers as unemployed and, by the way, a shattered taxi industry behind them. That is why we need to put an end to all conditions surrounding Uber and there is no reason to wait for future taxi negotiations. The unfair competition is taking place right now, while we are talking in the Danish Parliament, and in particular next weekend we will see again that the work is being taken out of the hands of drivers who have it as their profession of which they live, because of what has only one name, namely social dumping on the part of Uber drivers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511202804	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. It did not give rise to brief remarks. Sorry, there was one anyway. Sir. Johannes Lebech.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511202814	I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether it is not a matter of concern that Uber is actually so successful. Because I know that I was very upset by saying that we must be responsive to modern technology. I am very much in agreement with the rapporteur in many ways, but it also tells me that such a service will have such a rapid success among young people and that, for that very reason, we will have a challenge. Will the rapporteur not acknowledge that this is also part of the whole problem, namely that the population is taking this to heart?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511202846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511202847	Of course it's worrying that Uber has spread. There may be various reasons for this, including: the fact that it is a little cheaper to drive with them, and there will be some young people who think it will be smart. There will be some people who, without understanding how this society is built up and without a social mind, will not contribute. It would also typically be people who would like to fly cheaper with Ryanair; who would like to do undeclared work; who would like to skip where the burden is lowest when it comes to themselves, but would like to have the highest possible social security on the day they need it. You just can't make that combination if you make room for something like Uber. But it is true that it is spreading. It spreads like weeds in a warm spring garden. We're gonna have to spray it right away.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511202926	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511202931	I do not really have any more comments to make. My business this evening has been partly to say that we were not in favour of this specific task force, and partly to say that we must also look at that development and be responsive to it. I understand that the anger, especially from left-wing parties, is so widespread, and I myself am not very enthusiastic about this system. I would just like to warn against the fact that we are not also listening to the feet, you could say, or the press of the app that is happening. Because that is also part of the reality we are facing. It is true, of course, that it is a matter of just being cheaper. But it seems that those who are in favour of it being just cheaper are not dissatisfied with the fact that it is not so safe and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511203019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511203021	You don't just have to accept a reality. Then there are many times where you can say that it is just the development that does it and that we cannot do anything about it. Yes, we can do something about it. I would also like to say that the last question was that I was just going to consider my first speech on it. It was and I'm just gonna point out that there's no need to spray on Uber. Sounds like it was something we could do in the SF. It's not. We pick it up with a pick and tear it up with rooting the organic way instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511203045	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. Then there are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511203059	It has been a pleasure to follow the debate. There have been many highlights, among others. That Mr. Johannes Lebech revealed himself as an old conservative. I wasn't aware of that, but I'm glad to hear that. It has also been a pleasure to see Mr. Rasmus Prehn gets toasted so badly by Mr. Kim Christiansen, sir. Henning Hylllested and Mr. Karsten Hønge. It seems almost as if it has been enjoyed, and it is of course quite all right with such a teasing proposal here directed at the Socialists. We are not going to vote for it, and that is because we think it would be a little strange if the Folketing were to go in and make a special rule for a single company. It's a little mixed up. We believe that it must be up to the authorities to decide where action should be taken in relation to prosecution. I am also eagerly awaiting the outcome of the police reports and trials that run against the Uber people. I find this very interesting, and it will be followed with great interest by the whole industry. I would also like to make it clear that I have a great deal of sympathy for the frustration in the taxi industry at the moment. What is happening is very, very violent and it is clear that some people are threatened with their livelihoods. Of course, we take this seriously. This is very important for the transport and taxi industry, especially for those drivers who are currently facing a new competitor. We are of the opinion that there should be room for Uber in Denmark. We do not believe that we can have the same legislation as we do today. We believe that there should be legislation that allows competition to take place. We are not in favour of the taxi monopoly currently in existence. The fact that there is actually a ceiling on how many people are allowed to take part in a profession is a very planned economic approach. We are not in favour of this, and we believe that there should be room for innovation for the benefit of citizens, for the benefit of customers and also for the benefit of prosperity in Denmark. Having said that, I would like to say that it must be done in a proper manner. It cannot be the case that there are some who can avoid paying taxes, and if that is the case, which of course there is a strong suspicion, then it must of course be stopped. There should be no doubt that people will of course have to pay taxes if they operate in Denmark. Otherwise, there is no fair competition. Then the challenge, as we see it, when you start the taxi negotiations tomorrow, is to ensure that you get a new taxi law that can provide, not the same terms and not the same rules for Uber as there are for the taxis today, but which can give a level playing field, so the package of terms that are offered to people driving for shared services and people driving taxi is equal. We will, of course, have some long discussions about this, because when is it even? After all, there are a large number of different matters that are regulated, and it is not such simply to transfer them to Uber. So we imagine different regulations, but it must be equally tough for all the players on the market, or equally favourable, if you like. I look forward very much to that work. I think this is a very important matter, and it is therefore also important that we all treat this industry properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511203422	Sir. Henning Hyllested has a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511203424	It was just to correct the misunderstanding that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov was guilty of saying that this proposal was such a mockery to the Socialists. It is clear that when we have been hard on the Socialists today, it is of course because we consider them to be an ally in the fight against social dumping, and here we simply think they are failing. So it's not like it's a teasing proposal. I did not imagine in my wildest imagination that the Socialists could vote against this or not agree to it, but let it be. I understand from the rapporteur that there must be room for Uber, but at the same time the same demands must be made on the whole industry. If Uber's business model is to be taken seriously, it means everything else being equal, it means relaxing the requirements, and it will then be the Conservatives' input into the negotiations on the new taxi legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511203518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511203518-2	Yes, one can well imagine that there are some requirements that need to be relaxed. For example, the requirement that you should not build up equity as a wagonman, I imagine we removed. We could easily imagine that in many areas it was easier and better to drive taxi services in Denmark, so that the taxis can also compete with Uber, who then have to drive under some other conditions. Otherwise it is no longer Uber, so it is no longer a car sharing service if we make the same demands on them as we do on the cabs today. So, yes, one can well imagine that we did some things better for taxi drivers, so that they too have the opportunity to run their business, while at the same time opening up the possibility for Uber to be here as well. We see it as a positive thing that there will be some competition, but of course we believe that there must also be reasonable conditions for taxi drivers so that they are not run out by those who have much easier access to the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511203617	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511203619	Will it be requirements for drivers, for road hauliers, for cars that need to be relaxed in the context of the new taxi legislation, if that is the case with the Conservatives? I am thinking of demands on drivers to have training, demands on road hauliers for both economics and vandals, tough environmental requirements for cars and additional requirements for more regular sightings than we others have to send our cars to, etc. etc. This is precisely what is being done to ensure not only a high level of professionalism, but also, of course, that it is safe for customers to understand, i.e. that it is transparent in terms of prices, but also that it is justified in terms of road safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511203706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511203706-2	I don't want to lock myself up on that yet, because now we need to talk to the industry, and we need some input. I am sure that the taxi industry itself has a large number of suggestions on how they would like better conditions. It would be weird if they didn't have it. But if I just had to give my immediate thoughts, I could, for example. Imagine that it was not necessary for the car to be as often visible as we are demanding today. Well, we all drive with others sometimes, without us feeling in imminent danger of life, because the car hasn't been seen as often as the cabs are. So I could imagine that we were relaxing our demands, but we need to have a qualified discussion on that before I want to lock myself on to something.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511203747	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. Then the trip has come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley. Kim Christiansen for Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511203758	This is fantastic, because it is a wealth of explanations mixed with real good intentions and good will, and you want it all for the industry, because nobody dares stand up here and say: we don't want to touch a finger in terms of stopping Uber, because we think it's quite fine that there are taxi drivers who have to go from house to home because they can't make money for the day and the way. When we had this question debate, the Socialists would have been happy just to get a majority, just a small majority, if the Danish People's Party had supported their proposals. Now, all of a sudden, the Socialists want to bring the government along and have broad agreements. There are some of the Social Democrats' friends over in 3F who have to shake the head of this, so you don't just strike and back up this proposal. It's customized. But then 3F will have to write a little about it on his website tomorrow. Now I've had plenty of time to read this proposal because I thought there'd have to be something about a meeting tomorrow and new taxi negotiations and something like that. But we have simply not written that into the proposal. It was actually the minister who started talking about meeting and new taxi law and something like that, but it has nothing.This is about making a massive effort against black money, pirate taxis and illegals in the taxi business. It cannot then gather a majority in here, and I just think the voters out there should think about that very carefully, especially the taxi industry. The fact that there is no majority in the Danish Parliament to stop cheating and deception in an industry is a mystery to me. A year and a half ago, Uber's Department of Traffic called in. It's so amazingly succeeded over in the Justice Department to train this case out for all eternity, and lurk me if not skilled defense attorneys who can't meet on time and don't have time to come in when running trials can't train this any further. Meanwhile, Uber is growing in the nightlife, and more and more taxi drivers simply cannot make a living doing their profession. They are hanging in these cars 16-18 hours with, or at least with road safety problems, in addition to the purely family and human problems that lie behind them. One thing is that we have to stand in here half the night, it is a choice we have made and, after all, we are not forced to, but it is the taxi drivers if they are to be able to make a living driving a taxi. I just don't think it's fair this way. I heard that sir. Rasmus Prehn said that now we should try to talk about this. Well, I'll take that, but it was right to the right, I'll say to Mr. Knox. Rasmus Prehn, it just had to be kicked in over the line. We had played it so nicely into the field that I would almost say that in my well-powerful days I could have put it in with my heel. But let us have a sensible committee dealing with this and then I really hope that we can get the Socialists to come to their senses in some way so that we can get a majority in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511204118	Thank you, sir. Kim Christiansen. There are no more brief comments, and no one else has asked to speak, and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building. No one seems to object to that, so I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511204142	The debate is open and the first on the platform is the Minister for Transport and Building.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511204211	Thank you, sir. President. It has been proposed to require the government to bring forward the necessary legislative proposals and to make the necessary changes to administrative regulations ensuring that goods vehicles under 3.5 tonnes carrying out freight services on a foreign account are covered by the principles of the Road Transport Act and by a Swedish model scheme regulating the rules of rest. It is proposed that goods vehicles also require authorisation for the carriage of goods and that this be done in the form of an adapted version of the requirements applicable to lorries. In addition, a transport buyer's responsibility is proposed, for example. for the correct indication of the weight of the goods. This would be an extension in relation to rules for lorries where such liability does not apply. So the proposal here goes further than the demands made on lorries. Finally, rest periods are proposed in accordance with the Swedish model. According to the proposal, for every 24 hours running, the driver must prove that he has rested for 11 hours. And it is noted that these are rest rules, as opposed to the more extensive driving-rest-time rules. The issue of authorisation for vans has already been raised, and I can tell you that the legal situation today is such that the authorisation requirement in the legislation on road haulage applies only to lorries, i.e. cars of more than 3.5 tonnes of permissible gross weight. This then means that hauliers must meet a requirement of good repute, professional qualifications and equity. And the holder of a licence must also follow the provisions on the pay and working conditions of drivers contained in collective agreements. As I said, it is not a new idea that vans should also be included in these requirements. The question has been raised earlier, which is why the Ministry of Transport has already had a consultant report drawn up in April 2013 on this particular issue. It was, I have to say, under the previous government, so I cannot take credit for it having happened while I was sitting there. But it is a report drawn up by the Ministry of Transport on that particular issue. The report's conclusions were that only 2.9% of the population were affected. of the total number of vans used for driving at foreign expense. So what we are talking about here is a problem of 2.9%, approx. 12,400 vans out of a total of 426,688 vans per year. 1 January 2012. In general, there is only a small area of competition between trucks and vans because they serve to a large extent different sub-markets. Finally, the investigation showed that an authorisation requirement would result in an increased administrative burden both for the industry and for the authorities. Seen from my chair, there are two main considerations that we need to take care of when we decide whether or not to introduce permit requirements, etc. for vans. Firstly, according to the proposal, companies must be burdened with additional burdens. The Government is working hard to reduce burdens on industry, and in the road transport sector, the Road Transport Council has a working group working on regulatory simplification to improve the framework conditions for business. So my answer is that, from the outset, enough burdens have been placed on business and that it is not an end in itself to impose more, on the contrary. Secondly, it must be asked whether regulation will really solve the problems identified by the proposal, namely undeclared work, social fraud and the employment of illegal labour in the transport industry. Honestly, I find that hard to see. Those matters are not covered by the usual administrative supervision in connection with the issue of authorisation for the carriage of goods. In the case of authorisation, matters such as equity, equity and public debt are mainly checked, and control is subject to EU rules. On the other hand, there is no question of tax fraud, social fraud or illegal employment. These checks, on the other hand, are carried out by means of spot checks and road checks in a joint body of authorities with inter alia: Police, SKAT, Traffic and Building Agency. With regard to the motion for a resolution on rest periods, it is difficult to see the road safety impact of this because an 11-hour rule already applies in Denmark to all employees over 18 years of age. The sharpening seems therefore, as far as I can see, to consist almost exclusively of demonstrating compliance with the rule. I do not want to introduce such a obligation to provide documentation for the holding of rest, either for our business community or for our authorities, who will have to use resources to control the situation. I very much agree with the proposers that social dumping and tax fraud must be combated, not only in the transport industry, but in all sectors. I do not think, however, that we should prescribe one to me to see an ineffective and burdensome cure, as is the case with this proposal. So, in the light of these circumstances, I believe that the proposal should be rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511204707	Thank you to the Minister for Transport and Building. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, who is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, has wanted to share his time so that he takes the first part now as rapporteur, and then he concludes as draftsman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511204727	Thank you. Whether you talk to the employers in DTL, the trade union movement in 3F, or if, as I did recently, you take one day out of the calendar and get in the cab of a truck and experience life on the road for a day's time, the message is completely the same. In fact, we heard transport policyers also the message of a recent hearing here at Christiansborg from the package distributor GLS. There is a huge need for regulation of goods vehicles under 3,500 kg that drive freight at foreign expense. That's the message. It is rare for politicians to experience such a broad-based demand for regulation of an industry. Even if the many votes in the debate are not enough to convince the most critical among us, one can take the trouble to examine how the media have described the situation in the industry. It doesn't look good. Articles on social fraud, undeclared work, the employment of illegal labour and social dumping have unfortunately become part of the story of at least parts of the van industry. For example, Thomas Jensen from Rødekro Kurér tells JydskeWest Coast in connection with an article about this bill: As an industry we are in top five in bankruptcy. This means that some run their company for a while, shutting it down without paying tax and VAT, and then opening a new company with a strawman. Subsequently, my research has shown that the industry is not really top five, but top three in terms of bankruptcy. This kind of unfair competition is devastating both for the industry and for the Treasury, because we are missing out on revenue. We need to change that. That is why the Socialists have tabled motion for a resolution No. B 165. The proposal obliges the Government to ensure that goods vehicles less than 3,500 kg carrying out freight services on a foreign basis are covered by the principles of the Freight Transport Act and by new rules for driving-rest time. The draft section on driving rest-time is drawn with inspiration from the Swedish rules. Specifically, the proposal describes the following measures, all of which are measures aimed at improving road safety, combating social dumping and cheating, and creating a basis for healthier competition for the part of the transport industry using goods vehicles under 3,500 kg. Firstly, the proposal provides for a training and competence boost for drivers and road hauliers. DTL and 3F are already working with a course for drivers, so there is experience in the industry that you can draw on. The training requirement must increase the professionalism of the industry as a whole and ensure that the individual driver is aware of the rules that apply in the transport sector. Secondly, for road hauliers, capital requirements, water requirements and claims for public debt are introduced. These are measures to limit the bankruptcy practices that we heard previously described by Thomas from Rødekro. It will also separate the stumped vessels from the rest of the industry. Thirdly, the proposal introduces requirements for the form and place of business. Where the carrier is operated as a public limited liability company, joint-stock company or partnerships, the licence must be applied for and issued to the company and the company must have a transport manager who is actually and continuously responsible for the carriage of goods by the undertaking. There must be a contract of employment for the transport manager, which shows that he is a transport manager and that he is the employee's salary. A holder of a road haulage licence shall, as a general rule, comply with the provisions on the terms and conditions of employment of drivers contained in collective agreements for commercial vehicles. The measure aims to ensure better control of road hauliers, put an end to rail companies in the industry and limit wage dumping. Fourthly and finally, the proposal introduces transport buyer responsibility. It is in order to ensure that the correct indication of the weight of the goods is the responsibility of the purchaser of the goods. The initiative should strengthen road safety by limiting the number of cases of overload. I hope that the Danish Parliament will give its approval to the proposal, which is a partial re-submission of an earlier proposal by the Danish People's Party. Both the industry, transport buyers and consumers have a strong interest in healthy competition in the transport sector. I believe it is our responsibility as politicians to ensure that this competition takes place on proper and fair terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511205153	Thank you, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kim Christiansen for Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511205207	In many ways, this is a very good proposal, too, in that the Danish People's Party has made a similar proposal in the past that we regulate goods vehicles under 3,500 kg, which run freight at foreign expense. It must serve several purposes, including: to counter social dumping, to ensure good, healthy and fair competition, i.e. so that you can't just buy some van online, write on the page Raketpost and get a CVR number and then actually just lie and run to 50 or 60 DKK. We have seen examples of this at the same time as we receive social benefits. We simply have to solve this problem. I think that the Socialists' proposals here should be very welcome, but there is something I do not agree with, and I have also said that to the Socialist rapporteur. I think we should be careful that we do not make educational demands so high that we scare people away. This is an industry that many unskilled people can make a living from. So I think that we, among other things, are... must look very much at the elements of the proposal which relate to training. There are such a number of elements, and I think we should take them at committee reading. I think this may also require that we make some kind of report and have it examined to the bottom so that we are also sure that we hit the middle of the dial. And we are very positive about that. So I also hope that the authors of the motion will see this as a positive expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511205351	Sir. Henning Hyllested has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511205353	This is something to the rapporteur's comment that we should now perhaps also be careful not to impose too high training requirements. Anyway, now we are talking about vans driving goods at a foreign expense. One might ask: in principle, what is the difference between the driver driving a truck driving goods at a foreign expense and the driver driving a van? I am well aware that it is something else to drive a large truck carrying goods in the semi-trailer than to drive a van. But in principle, I guess it's the same thing. It is a question of familiarity with the car and the driving training that needs to be studied. But to carry goods around and be responsible for that should the same requirements be imposed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511205436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511205439	It is clear that there are of course other training requirements when driving around with 40 tonnes. On the one hand, there is the operation of the vehicle, as Mr. Henning Hyllested said that there is a difference between driving small packages and handling large quantities of goods with a truck. But I also sometimes think that the training requirements for getting out driving a truck are too tough, and I think that is also what keeps many drivers away from the industry. You say no, when you almost have to have an academic degree to drive a truck just to operate a tachograph is a science in itself, and the driving-rest-time rules themselves require 6-8 months of study alone to get to the bottom of it. So I very much agree that we must ensure that this does not become such an educational regime, because then we will only lose even more unskilled jobs, and then we will simply make a motorway for Eastern Europeans.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511205539	The questioner. No, but there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511205547	Thank you. I am, of course, very pleased with the positive reception the proposal has received from the Danish People's Party. I mentioned very briefly in my own speech earlier that DTL and 3F have gained experience in the training of drivers. I would just like to sign for the rapporteur's remarks on, and in fact support the rapporteur, that we certainly should not make training requirements that can scare drivers who may be educationally frightened or have negative experiences with training from the past in their lives away. That is certainly not the purpose here. We must do this in cooperation with the industry's players, in other words draw on the good experiences and get something done that you can pass if you want to. It must in no way be the case that you have to have an academic degree or just something that looks like to be a driver. So I am quite sure that we shall be discussing this in committee. What is important is that we take the first step now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511205647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511205648	I did not hear any question in that, just an indication that I have said something right.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511205654	The questioner? No. Then there is no further comment to Mr. Kim Christiansen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, on behalf of the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511205713	Thank you, sir. President. With the motion for a resolution here, the Social Democrats propose that goods vehicles less than 3.5 tonnes carrying out freight services on a foreign basis should be covered by the Road Transport Act and by a Swedish model scheme which will regulate the rules on rest periods. The Left sympathises with the aim of the proposed proposal, namely to ensure fair competition, to combat tax evasion and black driving and to promote orderly and secure conditions on the roads. That's good. However, when we pursue these objectives, it must be done in a way that actually supports and strengthens the competitiveness of the transport industry rather than imposing unnecessary burdens and costs on the industry and businesses and customers. There must be the right balance when we start and discuss such things, so that the benefits of a new system clearly exceed the disadvantages and costs of a new system. The proposal before us proposes that goods vehicles be required to carry out goods transport. The question has previously been raised where it has not been possible to secure the necessary support in the Chamber. The proposal now put forward by the Social Democratic Party not only imposes new burdens on the industry, which cost the industry money, but it will also cost the authorities quite a lot of resources to manage and administer the new rules. The volume of goods vehicles carrying goods for hire or reward is relatively limited. These are well over 12 000 vans, or just under 3%. of the total stock of vans in Denmark. As the Minister mentioned, it is well and well 426,000 vans that we have in Denmark, and of them it is about 12,000 we are talking about that are carrying out this driving on a foreign basis. History also includes the fact that vans and trucks are in direct competition with each other only to a limited extent. They are different types of good that they are aimed at in the nature of the matter. The Left also has doubts as to whether the resolution basically solves the problem which it intends to solve with the best of intentions. In fact, when granting licences, it is not examined whether there is tax evasion, whether there is social fraud or whether illegal labour is being used. This is a control which is carried out in a completely different way by means of random checks in cooperation between the relevant authorities and thus has nothing to do directly with the permit to drive goods. In addition, the European Commission is currently working on a road package which is expected to address the issue of goods vehicles under 3.5 tonnes. For this reason, the Left does not believe that this is the right time to start introducing new Danish national special rules which risk distorting competition and putting Danish transport companies at a disadvantage than their foreign competitors. Let us now wait and see what comes down from the European Union, it's just around the corner. Against this background, the Left cannot support this motion for a resolution, but we are, of course, open to discussion and debate in connection with the work of the committee, and if we can land it here with a report, we are also ready to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511210059	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511210105	The rapporteur mentions that it is just around the corner with an initiative or an initiative from the European Union. I'd like to hear more about what's right around the corner. It is true that a road transport package has been put in place by the European Union, but it has to be negotiated afterwards, and what is the real timetable for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511210129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511210130	As far as I am aware, we are talking about the fact that it is within months. Something is coming from the European Union, but I do not want to be hung up on an exact deadline. My experience with the European Union is too long for that. There may sometimes be a few more or less months to go by, but we know that something is on the way, and it is enough for the Left to say that we should now wait and see what is coming, so that Denmark does not have any special rules, but is in agreement with the other European countries, especially since it is transport, which also has a cross-border character.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511210205	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511210206	I am glad, then, that the rapporteur shares my view that sometimes it takes a little longer than we might have thought when it comes to the European Union. However, the road transport package that is coming is probably a proposal from the Commission. Before it is transposed into directives or regulations, as we know it from the cabotage regulation, there can be quite a while. On the other hand, it could be said that if we were to sharpen things at home or take vans, for example. Under the law on goods transport, or some of the same requirements as in the law on goods transport, of course adapted to those particular goods vehicles, it could also be a play and a kick in the negotiations that are then held in the European Union, where we all know that we are struggling with internal market regulations just about cabotage and wretched working conditions for cross-border traffic.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511210309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511210309-2	Well, I think that Denmark should be active with the kick-in to the EU process. This applies both to the government side, but also to the Danish Parliament. We have to get better at making good Danish ideas about this kind of thing. However, it is not the policy of the Left that we introduce national special rules in this way, especially in the case of a sector which is of a cross-border nature. That's why we can have ice cream in our stomach a little longer, and then we'll follow this closely. Then, as I said, there is a strong argument that we are not sure that this hits the dial and actually solves the problem that you want to solve.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511210341	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511210345	Thank you. I have heard others talk about waiting for the European Union. It is usually something that is a little heavy, it is a heavy system. I asked one of our employers' organisations what can be expected in time if something comes from the European Union, and what they are saying is that the Commission does not have any concrete papers on a proposal yet? That is also how I hear the rapporteur. They considered that it would take at least two years for something concrete to be presented, and then perhaps a time-limit of one and a half years will have to be added before it can be adopted. Does the rapporteur agree with me that if this is just about the time period we are talking about, it does not make much sense to claim that it makes good sense to wait for the European Union on this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511210431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511210431-2	Yes, but now that is not the only argument I have for us to be unable to support the proposal here. As I said, we are open to discussing this in the context of committee work. But what we are most sceptical about is whether the benefits of this proposal exceed the costs, the administrative burdens and the disadvantages that business gets from this. Because when you introduce a new administrative system, there are some costs that will eventually have to be paid in some way, and the proposers have to deal with that too. There must be a fair balance between the advantages and disadvantages, and we are not convinced that this proposal has the right balance. However, as I said, we are ready to discuss this in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511210514	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511210516	Well, I am glad that the rapporteur confirms that this EU issue is not the decisive issue. That is something you throw in as an argument, but perhaps that is not really what it is about; it is about being against the proposal. I think it is good for the further discussion that we will sort it out, because I do not think that we should shoot the European Union in front of us and then leave it in the way of us having a discussion about it. I think that would also make committee work a little trivial. Let us discuss what is instead. So it is nice to have that clarification from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511210545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511210547	I just want to repeat that there are a number of things that this proposal does not solve at all. If it's tax fraud, social fraud and illegal labour and something like that, you just don't hit the dial. And I guess that's what's meant by hitting the dial. In addition, there are these administrative burdens, and there is indeed the government's overall strategy to remove burdens for the Danish business community, because the Danish business community is faced with much more burdens than their competitors abroad, and it does not need more.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511210614	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511210634	Thank you. We are very pleased that the Social Democrats have tabled this motion for a resolution, and we must of course note that the Social Democrats, with the resolution, have actually moved a little bit forward and in a positive direction, it should be emphasised in the sense that the Enhedslisten actually entered into a joint agreement with the then government, the Social Democrats and Radicals in connection with the 2015 Finance Act, and the SF to initiate an analysis of precisely this problem of goods vehicles of less than 31⁄2 tonnes. It was quite clear at the time that SF and Enhedslisten thought that we would have liked to have initiated an initiative towards this, but at that time we could only get the government to carry out an analysis. I think it might have been a little superfluous because an analysis had been carried out in the Ministry of Transport in 2013, and the Road Transport Council had also done an analysis back in 2012 of this area, and the analyses showed similar things. But okay, that's what we could get that government to do. That is why I am pleased to note that the Socialists have tabled this resolution, which we in the Group of the Party of European Socialists can clearly endorse, and we can do so, because the aim is to ensure that there is proper pay and working conditions for drivers, that we take action against cheating and social dumping, and that we also ensure fair competition in this way; and this is also done in the interests of road safety. We know that in the industry there are hauliers, companies that are in order. After all, we know this from one of the largest players, Post Denmark, in this area where there are proper conditions where there are well-paid. There is nothing to criticise virtually awful, it may well be that there is a postal worker who has some criticism, I should not be able to say that. But, on the whole, there is nothing there to criticize. But we also know that Post Danmark is, after all, exposed to unfair competition from many companies that do not have control of things and who use foreign workers, in some cases illegal labour for wages that are far, far below what a driver, according to Danish conditions, should have. So we think this is a very good proposal. We fully agree that it is not necessarily possible to transfer one of these to the goods vehicle market, but one of our demands would be that there should be reference to collective agreements, just as there is in the current law on goods transport. I fully agree that we have had a problem there because of the government's bill, L 118, which has completely destroyed that provision, but we hope, of course, that it has not yet found its decision to get through the restoration of the legal situation that existed before the disastrous Supreme Court ruling, which meant that the government put forward draft law No. L 118. I think it was an interesting piece of information that the rapporteur gave, namely that this sector is heavily affected by bankruptcies, which clearly indicates that unfair competition is taking place. This is a very, very typical example of the fact that when the conditions of competition are unhealthy, there are also many bankruptcies, where people run a company until it breaks down then it could run like this until then and you can probably also find bankruptcy in this regard. So we believe that demands must be made. An authorisation must also be required. Whether it is to be fully similar to the one required under the law on goods transport, we will leave it to negotiation, but demands must be made on economics, vanity, education and so on. etc. What the exact requirements are, we must then look at. For Enhedslisten, it is not essential that there is less competition, as has been observed in the analyses carried out between the goods vehicle industry and the truck industry. What is crucial is that there are good pay and working conditions for drivers and that there is fair competition. We believe that it is clear at least from the requests we are also receiving from the trade union movement, first and foremost 3F here that it is not there, but that there are a great many companies, so-called self-employed, i.e. fake self-employed road hauliers, that operate, not least in this area. It's true that this is a smaller part of all the vans that are, but it doesn't really matter to us. There are between 3 and 5 per cent, depending on what an analysis is referred to, but it is the vans who carry out freight transport on a foreign basis. And that's what this has to include. It's not supposed to include all those craft cars or whatever else it's called. So positive expression from the Enhedslisten to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511211142	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511211147	Thank you. Thank you very much for your support for the proposal and the nice words that followed on the part of the Enhedslisten. I'm glad. I would just like to point out two things: the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten says that it is a requirement for hauliers to follow collective agreements. It is also clear from the comments made on the motion for a resolution that this is, of course, what we are aiming for. It is precisely one of the tools in the resolution that will ensure that this proposal combats social dumping and wage pressures. So this is one of the tools that will, of course, be a powerful tool in combating the things that I believe we are agreed on must be combated. Then I'd like to add that in the case of bankruptcies, this business is in fact only outdone in the negative sense by pizzerias and general cleaning in buildings, and the survival rate for these industries is just about 80%. They are very close to the bottom, so they are very solid evidence of this bankruptcy, which I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511211253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511211254	I would like to say that I also only took the comment about the reference to contractual conditions, as there is in the goods transport law, because we who have been challenged ~ it is shown in modern Danish ~ the problems due to the government's bill no. L 118. As I say, it is about returning to the legal situation that existed before the disastrous Supreme Court ruling in this area. That's why I mentioned it. The rapporteur then confirms the question of bankruptcy. It is really interesting information that comes out here: that it is only surpassed by pizzerias and cleaning. It's a really, really boring company you've come into.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511211331	Then we thank the rapporteur, and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511211346	Nor can the Liberal Alliance this time, when it comes to small vans, support a motion for a resolution to redeploy the entire goods and goods transport industry. I note that in the motion for a resolution the whole of two sides have been devoted to setting out all the requirements that should now be needed to bring some goods from a to b in a smaller van. No, this time too we think it is shooting grey sparrows with cannons, and it would have the very sure result that, due to a very modest problem, you will build a forest of administrative routines, which will certainly reduce the competitiveness of our businesses. As in the case of the previous motion for a resolution, B 131, we do not see here the necessary and sensible proportions in the proposal to put turbo on Rule Denmark in this way because of a problem which concerns approximately 3%. of the vans. We want fewer rules and no more rules, and it is true to say that there are a lot of new requirements for the industry in this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511211504	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Roger Matthiesen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511211524	Thank you. The motion for a resolution is about the inclusion of small goods vehicles carrying out freight services in the principles of the Code of Conduct on goods. We are in favour of this in the alternative. The proposal can respond to some of the challenges facing the industry, and we have a great understanding of this in the Alternative. By including vans in the legislation, both the legality and the social conditions of this part of freight transport are strengthened. We also welcome the positive addition of rest requirements for drivers, so that both safety and working conditions are improved, and this is also done by the fact that Swedish experience has become a skeleton. We support that too. The alternative is in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511211612	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Johannes Lebech, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511211627	Excuse me, Chairman. I've been quick to be in place so far, but I didn't know it was going so fast now. On the other hand, I should like to say very briefly that, on the part of the Radical Left, we cannot support the resolution on the present basis, and above all we cannot support it with the argument that it is too detailed and that we do not believe that the problem is as great as it has been mentioned. I have, of course, listened to the debate that has taken place today, and we will of course also listen to the debate during committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511211652	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511211706	This may not be the large number of vans that will be covered by the motion for a resolution on goods vehicles of less than 3,500 kg, but regulation will help to increase the likelihood of taxes being paid and more control of foreign employees and, of course, it will help to increase road safety by complying with the rest of the journey. This is also why a regulation of goods transport for foreign purposes is supported by many employers and by the trade union 3F. Both parties are tired of the many companies that start up but close after a short time. The many bankruptcies in the industry hit customers, drivers and the many reputable companies. The industry needs a helping hand, which is why the SF supports the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511211759	Thank you to the rapporteur. And there will be an ongoing rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party, Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511211816	All I have to say is that we cannot support the motion for a resolution. We do not want to burden small businesses with even more regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511211827	Thank you to the rapporteur. I give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Mr President. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511211840	Thank you very much and thank you for a good debate on the motion for a resolution. At least I would like to note two things. There has been talk about whether to wait for EU legislation and thus kick this proposal to the corner. I think there is something to say about this: let us discuss in committee what comes from the European Union, what is on the way. But let me also say from this point of view that the initial research I have carried out on what the European Union has on the steps, how far one is, shows that it even has very long prospects. It is clear that if the work of the committee shows that the European Union can have something clear in 3, 4, 5, 6 years, then it does not make sense to refrain from doing anything now, even if something else might happen in many years' time. So we have to look at this in the committee work, but let me make it clear that we need to act now. In terms of taking action now, I also note that there are several of the bourgeois rapporteurs who tend to neglect the problem, with reference to the fact that there are not so many vans and that the whole thing is probably not so bad. I just brought up a note back from 2010 when the then tax minister spoke out after a traffic raid was carried out, just after the small vans had been targeted. The then tax minister was Troels Lund Poulsen and was from the Left Party and stated after the action: The action unfortunately reveals that there are massive problems in the trucking industry. It looks like a criminal catalog of social fraud, illegal labour and undeclared work. It is therefore a minister who states that the problem is significant and that we urgently need to clean up. If you add that the trade union movement, including 3F, DTL and employers, such as GTL, is calling for us to have regulated conditions in this area, then I have a little difficulty in taking seriously that the blue rapporteurs neglect the problem. I don't think there's any reason for that out there in real life. Then it has also been said that this proposal will do nothing about the problems. I think there is only one way to say that I totally disagree with that. For example, if we look at the number of bankruptcies, it is clear that a claim for capital will make bankruptcy more difficult. So I think it is quite obvious that this problem will be resolved by the motion for a resolution. If we look at the water demand in the proposal and the demand for debt due to the public sector, then it is also, I think, relatively obvious that it will separate the sheep from the goats in the industry and thus, of course, clear out some of the actors who might commit social dumping. Again, I think it must be quite obvious to those who have had to follow the debate now that it will also be an approach that will limit the extensive cheating that we see in parts of the industry. Finally, it has to be said that the motion for a resolution will also introduce the fact that transport managers have to document employment contracts, that they are transport managers. It is also an approach that will make straw-man business more difficult and that tax fraud will become more difficult. The fact that the motion for a resolution will introduce the fact that the starting point is the collective income in force will directly affect wage dumping, social dumping. As far as road safety is concerned, which I have also mentioned as a reason why we have tabled this motion for a resolution, we are, of course, introducing the responsibility of transport purchasers to ensure that transport buyers have to indicate the correct weight of the goods. It is clear that it will improve road safety, as long as it will mean that there will be better control over the absence of overloading. So if you look at the individual parts of the proposal, I think it will be relatively clear to anyone who reads it with good will that this will hit exactly the kind of cheating that I have described and that we want to combat, namely social dumping and wage printing, and also those people who are putting us all at risk by overloading. So I am glad that there have been many positive comments, and I look forward to the committee reading and am quite confident that we will finally get to grips with this problem which has been allowed to exist for too many years without any action being taken by the Folketing. Thank you for your kind treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511212339	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511212354	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511212419	Thank you. The draft parliamentary resolution seeks to oblige the government to ensure that research into thorium-based technologies can be supported on equal terms with other technologies. The authors of the proposal justify the proposal by the fact that a wide range of different technologies are being studied in these years in order to meet the challenge of meeting an increasing global energy demand. One of several new technologies in nuclear power is thorium-based reactors, which may have a potential to replace all or part of uranium in nuclear energy production. The authors of the motion for a resolution state that Parliament resolution No. B 103 of 29 March 1985 to refrain from nuclear power in Danish energy planning has de facto eliminated the possibility of obtaining research support for nuclear projects. It also states that the decision has led to a gradual phasing-out of nuclear research. The proposers welcome technology-neutral energy planning. It is considered inappropriate that Denmark de facto does not gain further knowledge in a specific field of research. I would like to begin by saying that the Danish Parliament decided in 1985 that nuclear power should not be included in the public energy planning in Denmark, as the proposers themselves also mention. This also applies to the use of thorium. That decision still stands. The government has no plans to introduce nuclear power in Denmark, so thorium is not part of the government's thoughts on the climate-friendly energy supply of the future. It is the Government's ambition that Denmark should continue to be one of the leading countries in the green transition. The transformation must be characterised in the future by a stronger element of green realism. This means that it must be done in a cost-effective way that contributes to growth and employment. The government's long-term goal is that we should be independent of fossil fuels by 2050. Denmark must then be able to produce enough renewable energy to cover the total Danish energy consumption. In order to promote the green transition, we need to continue to make strong efforts in the field of research, development and demonstration in the field of energy technology. The action shall support further efficiency of energy use and promote cost-effective environmental and climate-friendly energy technologies and solutions where there is also business and export potential. Which research themes are particularly promising in the field of e.g.: the energy technology area will be identified in the upcoming FORSK2025 catalogue. The catalogue is expected to be completed in spring 2017. FORSK2025 is a knowledge, inspiration and priority basis for strategic investment in research. It is investment in research that can help solve major societal challenges and contribute to growth, prosperity and welfare in Denmark. The Government's position is that the Danish research and development effort should contribute to achieving in the future the objectives we have set in the field of energy policy. In order to give priority to the resources available to us for energy research, there must therefore be a focus on the solutions and technologies that we actually want to include in energy planning. It is not appropriate to give priority to research funding for a nuclear technology that we have opted out on Danish soil. In this context, I would also like to point out that the research funds within the current framework must be given priority so that they support Danish strengths and business needs. This is also apparent from the government's basis. In this way, we make the most of our resources for energy technology research, development and demonstration. Against this background, the Government does not consider thorium-based technologies to be a major research policy priority in the Danish context. That these causes the government cannot support draft parliamentary resolution No. B 135.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511212846	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments, the first is from Mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511212852	Thank you for the Minister's speech, which was soberly given the background to the proposal very carefully. But it was not so meticulous, I think, if one so listened to the substance of the argument to say that right here there are some areas that we, as a country of knowledge, do not want to know about. It must hurt a little in the belly of a research minister to have a main point of view, which is about saying in advance about an energy form that is said at the highest level in the UN that we cannot avoid, that we will not know anything about that in Denmark. Doesn't it hurt a little bit in the stomach of a liberal minister of research to say that what is not for us, since it is so clear that windmills and sun can thus constitute nothing more than a few percent of the energy source the world needs?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511212957	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511212958	It doesn't hurt, I assure you. Willum Christensen to have the view that I have set out here. And I can further expand on the fact that it is not the case that we do not want to know about it. What this proposal is about is that it should be a priority research area in a Danish context. We do not want that on the part of the government, as we have decided by a broad majority in the Folketing back in the mid-1980s that nuclear power should not be part of the Danish energy supply. And then I actually think it is very logical that we should not give priority to research in the area we have decided not to use it as a source of energy in our energy planning. So I think there is a lot of logic in rejecting the proposal here. But it is not the case that we do not want to know about it. There is no prohibition on research in this area. This is important for me to emphasise.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511213103	Sir. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511213104	I have to say that I am not quite sure that the Minister is hitting the mark with the last point of view, namely that there is no ban. There is, of course, a de facto ban when we know that there are promising researchers who have to go abroad because they are refused applications for the sole reason that word nuclear power is included in the application. I also think I would like to say that it is a mistake when the Minister says that we will give priority to nuclear research. No, we're just saying that it has to be on equal terms with all other research. That is why I find it difficult to understand that a liberal minister may think that it is quite fine to take some areas out and say that we will not do research on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511213154	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511213156	I have to stress that there is no ban on research into thorium-based technologies in Denmark. It would hurt a liberal minister of research to ban research, in other words to investigate various areas more closely. But what I am responsible for is the public funding for various research efforts, and there I think it would be illogical to invest in research into something we have decided in advance that there is no potential for the use of in a Danish context. So that's where the logic is for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511213235	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511213239	I just want to say thank you to the Minister for rejecting the Liberal Alliance proposal in total and one hundred percent. That was liberating to hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511213248	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511213250	There was not really any question, but just a praise from Enhedslisten, and that is quite unusual. So perhaps I should note in the calendar that this evening I have been praised by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. But thank you for your recognition.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511213303	Thank you, Minister. The first in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511213316	Thank you. I would also like to start by saying, although perhaps it is not quite as unusual as that Enhedslisten praises, that I actually also very much agree with the Minister today in relation to the line that the Minister has taken. As far as social democracy is concerned, we do not want to use force in Denmark. This has, of course, traditionally been justified by some safety, some waste problems, and I note here that there are some who hope that there is a technology here that may be able to overcome some of the problems in the long term. However, we also have technologies that do not have the problems at all, namely renewable energies, which, incidentally, we are very good at in Denmark. In order to give priority to resources, it is actually very logical for us to be committed to what we are good at, what we have done for a long time, and at a time when, unfortunately, the Liberal Alliance has also helped to conclude a financial law with the government, when the funds for the EUDP, that is, the energy research programme, have been halved, it is not time to start saying that we should then try to explore the possibilities for something that we, rightly as the Minister has said, have agreed in advance we have not intended to use. Against this background, the Socialists do not wish to support the proposal that has been put forward here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511213435	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511213442	Thank you to the Social Democratic Party. In other words, if I am to understand correctly, the Social Democratic Party is rejecting this proposal because we decided on it in 1985. I think I usually experience a very different substance in the arguments put forward by the Socialist rapporteur when we talk about energy policy. Is the rapporteur not aware that for many of the things that are needed in such research, we are very advanced on materials, on pumping technology, on the software involved. It sounds like it's not something we really know about, so it's not worth dealing with. We are, in fact, quite advanced and have some positions of strength in these areas which can take place internationally, but so it is the case that if you apply in Denmark, you get no, just because the word nuclear power is part of an application. Is it not a pity if we want a knowledge society that can develop with the global world in these really important areas of energy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511213549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511213551	I did not reject the proposal on the grounds that we meant something in 1985. On the contrary, I have said that the things we have meant since 1985 and also before that, we still think away, and that is that we do not want to use force because we believe that there are better alternatives and because, moreover, we believe that there are some positions of strength in Denmark that we should rather continue to work on. Well, it's true that fortunately we also have talented physicists who can do something about this, but it just makes it clear that they have been anyway, even though we haven't chosen to bet on this technology financially. Well, then I don't know if Mr. Villum Christensen really has a smaller problem than what he started with. Sir. Villum Christensen mentioned just before the UN as the supreme authority. It is then the same UN authority as Mr. Villum Christensen sometimes accuses of being infected by various NGO interests when it comes to focusing on how big the climate problem is. I think we should make an effort to decide whether or not we want to recognise those things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511213700	Sir. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511213703	Then you can get around the UN and then ask the rapporteur directly: does the rapporteur think that sun and wind and the things we have typically invested in Denmark can be central to solving the global problems, that is, can we avoid nuclear power? I'd like to hear that. Then forget about the UN. How does the rapporteur feel about the proportions of these forms of energy in order to solve the global energy problem in the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511213732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511213734	I very much disagree with Mr. Villum Christensen in that sun and wind are a minor or a very small part of the solution, but I am also aware of, and indeed I recognise the things that come from the UN in relation to this that there will also be a need for power. That is what the assessment is, and there are also countries that use 'a' power, and those countries are allowed to do so. We have just decided that we do not think that Denmark should use a-power. And, moreover, we want to continue with the things that we are good at, which must be our contribution to the overall solution of the climate challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511213810	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511213822	In 1985 the Danish Parliament decided not to use nuclear power in Danish energy planning. It is a decision which is still valid and which we in the Danish People's Party support. The motion for a resolution we are debating here calls for the 1985 resolution to be softened, because the purpose of the proposal, as I read it, is to support research into thorium-based technologies, and I assume that the long-term objective of the proposers of the proposal is that nuclear energy with thorium as a fuel should be part of the Danish energy production. In the Danish People's Party, we do not want nuclear power, whether with uranium or thorium as fuel, to be included in the Danish energy production even though thorium by some supporters is often produced as a kind of nuclear light. There are several reasons why we do. On the one hand, there is the radioactive waste, which is dangerous to handle and must be stored safely for many years, with the risk resulting therefrom, and on the other hand, there are safety problems at nuclear power stations where, no matter how much effort is being made to avoid accidents, there will always be a risk of spills with subsequent health risks to the population. Unfortunately, the experience of nuclear power is that even countries that we normally associate with high levels of safety, such as Japan, may encounter accidents with nuclear power stations, and that is a risk that we do not want to run in Denmark. The resolution is about supporting thorium-based technologies. I am aware that there is no ban today on research into it, but it is probably not exactly the area that we should be aiming for, and I would not call for research money to be allocated specifically to this. If we in the Danish People's Party are not in favour of the use of nuclear power in Denmark, we also see no reason to support research into thorium technology, since it is now a technology that we do not want to use in the long term. Against this background, the Danish People's Party rejects the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511214011	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511214023	I would like to start by stressing that the Left is in favour of all alternative forms of energy and also research into alternative forms of energy. It is also because we in the Folketing, together with a broad majority, agree and share the ambition that fossil fuels should preferably be free by 2050. We are also in favour of research into all alternative technologies in order to achieve the long-term goals of energy production in Denmark. Soon after I was born, a strategic decision was taken at home not to use nuclear energy strategically in the Danish energy supply. I know that the proposer is a businessman and a young man, and I imagine that if we as a nation were to give priority to nuclear power with the entry barriers and the research start we want to start with, that would mean that we are behind those who are at the forefront. Maybe we can get back to that. When I mention it, it is because I publicly believe that we, as politicians, have the task of supporting the technologies we strategically agree on we want to develop. We must support the technologies in which we see the potential, especially when it comes to our energy supply. Then I also have to say something else, and it is actually with a certain surprise that I say it. Sir. After all, Villum Christensen is part of a party that has helped to support this government and also the government base, and I would have imagined that if special research funds were to be given priority to thorium, the government would have been informed and thus affected the way the government was designed. I cannot see how that has been done. There is certainly a good explanation for this to which the rapporteur returns. I just want to make a note of it because I think it's interesting. At the same time, I also note that the motion for a resolution does not contain any reference to the possible financing of additional research funds. Having said that, I would like to say that I have listened to the debate and, as I read the legislation today, if I am mistaken, there is no prohibition on research into thorium-based technologies. Now, sir. Villum Christensen, the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, has twice said that the researchers who are applying will get no. If that is the case, I think it is actually a problem, and I would like to speak to the rapporteur about it. One is that we do not spend public money on technology and strategically want to prioritize it, but another is that it should not prevent skilled researchers and scientists from exploring and exploring opportunities. I would very much like to make that clear. We don't have a berufsverbot compared to using one's knowledge in this country. However, I can also understand that the lack of support for thorium research has not in fact necessarily been only a problem at home so far. There are several thorium pioneers, which you see when you get into the material. I also understand that the Danish company Seaborg Technologies last year in a British report on the energy of the future was recommended for a project for further development. In fact, I find this interesting, especially if it can also help to create development. Even the founder of Seaborg Technologies, Troels Schönfeldt, said that people are actually willing to make high-risk investments and money is found out in the free market. I think that is also worth noting when we talk about this area. But that is also why, like the Minister, I would, after all, be surprised to announce that the Left thinks it is an exciting debate, but also that at this stage we are not ready to support the Liberal Alliance's proposals. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511214403	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511214408	I would also like to thank and replicate that we had a slightly more nuanced approach to this than I think I have heard from the Minister, who comes from the same party. I also think I would like to ask whether we do not agree that when we are dealing with pump technology, and here I probably do not have to mention any companies, when we are dealing with measuring technology, and when we are dealing with how to develop new materials that can cope with high temperatures and all that sort of stuff, these are some areas where we are really good in Denmark. And wouldn't we be able to support them very easily in relation to these technology developments that are in the field, understood in that way that it is a barrier when we say that we will not spend money on that in the Danish fund system?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511214515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511214517	The answer to that question is based on a number of grounds in what the rapporteur has put forward. If the premise is that the fact that we do not want strategically to provide research funds restricts the ability of researchers to develop technology to a wide range of areas, then the rapporteur would have been right. But I'm not sure I recognize that premise. The fact is that in Denmark we have 40 companies working with space travel, and that is 20 on upstream and 20 on downstream. We are not a nation that has taken the lead in space travel, but we have prioritised some technologies, and in this way we are in the market. In 1985 it was decided not to give priority to this area, and then you can go back and look at the arguments from then on and assess whether you have done the most beneficial thing. There is then a new technology area where we strategically and energyically research some things. I still think that makes sense. I may be getting smarter, but I'm certainly not convinced yet. It may be that the debate will convince me, but I doubt it. This does not necessarily mean that the researchers that exist cannot make themselves felt in the area, even if state funds are not provided.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511214624	Sir. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511214626	I can now hear that the rapporteur is a reasonable person. If we then go back to 1985 and look at what was of arguments then, i.e. before the rapporteur was born well, almost, okay then we see that, among other things. was that nuclear power should not be included in the planning. Well, we're not living on a desert island. We're gonna get plenty of nuclear power through our power outlets. Some of the power to the light that is here tonight is most likely coming from a nuclear power station. Does the rapporteur not see that building a wall is an absurdity in terms of research, since we are still dependent on nuclear energy? At the time, the argument was that one did not want nuclear power on Danish soil, but one gets it in any case. And that is certainly a new thing compared to 1985.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511214719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511214719-2	I would like to quote my old colleague, Thor Pedersen, who said at one point that if the same support had been given to the establishment of banana plantations as has been given to certain alternative forms of energy, we would have had a great many banana plantations in Denmark. But the point is that when I was born in 1983, I had no decision-making power that could have affected the decision at that time. We have to deal with the status as it is today. Can I think it is unreasonable that Angela Merkel has closed German nuclear power stations? Yeah, maybe I can. Do I think it makes sense to give priority to an area in which we have invested and have a competitive advantage? Yeah, I actually think so, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511214755	I can otherwise hear that the rapporteur is speaking warmly. Unfortunately, however, speaking time has expired. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511214810	Thank you. The Enhedslisten cannot support this proposal at all that research funding should go to nuclear-type technologies. I am glad that the other day we received a press release from NOAH and Renewable Energy. This made it easier to prepare for today's debate here. Among other things, there were: Expressing this opinion of the Organization for Energy to what we should be dealing with here: "The fact that nuclear power based on thorium is especially safer than uranium is a myth that has long since been put to death," says Gunnar Boye-Olesen of the Organization for Renewable Energy. Thorium-based nuclear power also provides long-lived, highly radioactive waste. And the risk of accidents and the spread of radioactive material does not disappear. Nor is the claim that thorium cannot be used for arms purposes correct. Both the United States and India have carried out tests with uranium-233, which is the substance that actually operates a thorium-based nuclear power plant, respectively. in the 1960s and 1998. Overall, nuclear power is based on thorium as hopeless as other nuclear power stations. I think it is liberating to hear such things, and it has to be said that Denmark has clearly chosen nuclear power from 1985 onwards. At the same time, we have also started this transition to renewable energy, and as long as the sun shines, there is thus an opportunity to make the complete transition to renewable energy. When we look at this proposal and what happened in the Finance Act, it is quite striking that it is not at all related to a proposal here that there is a special technology to be promoted with research funds when the Liberal Alliance has helped to cut EUDP funds. This proposal is totally rejected today, and I think that is a good thing. It helps to establish that there is a reason why the Liberal Alliance is not part of the energy settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511215010	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511215014	I have to correct the misunderstanding that we are giving priority to this particular area. We are in favour of a completely technology-neutral approach to research into energy technologies, unlike Enhedslisten, which identifies quite specific areas with the result that we saw with the solar cells the other day. This is done from a planned economic point of view, so that when prices fall on solar cells, billions will go out of the box. This is precisely to ensure that we are constantly spot on with what is most effective. Then it is quite wrong to say that uranium and thorium are the same. Is the rapporteur not aware that there are 95 per cent? Waste when it comes to uranium? When it is thorium, 98-99 per cent can be used. Then only a few percent are waste. Is that not a huge difference from the rapporteur's concern about safety in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511215120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511215121	I'm fine with the security that's around wind turbines and around solar cells and around solar heat. I feel really good about it. It's very safe. Even if there falls a wing of a mill, which happens incredibly rarely, then the disaster that happens about it is limited. It is 30 years since the Chernobyl disaster happened. Some say that it is just in an old Eastern European country that such things can happen. And I have to say that when we saw the disaster in Japan in 2011, it was, in fact, a strengthening of the position that this is not the technology to be waged. It is renewable energy that is the future, and I am 100% sure of that, especially when you see what it is for an energy quantity that falls down on the ground every day. So there is no problem in converting our energy supply to 100%. renewable energy. It's possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511215212	Sir. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511215214	I have to understand the rapporteur in that way that the rapporteur is of the opinion that sun and wind should be crucial energy sources to solve global energy challenges in the long term. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it? We're at 2-3 percent. Today. That means that if we get up to 6-7 per cent, it's probably high. I simply do not understand why it can be argued that as long as the sun shines, we are in dreamland. Can I get an explanation for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160511215245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511215246	We're not in dreamland. If you look at the amount of energy that comes down on the ground every single day, you see that the amount is far greater than the energy consumption we have globally seen. It is not just a matter of having sun and wind in your energy supply. It's also geothermal, and it's hydropower. It is different which energy mix to choose in each country. It is actually possible to make 100 per cent. This is what we are doing in Denmark. And it can be something that we can inspire other countries with. We don't need nuclear power.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511215316	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511215325	I've been trying to dive into what this new thorium would be for something, and I've been very confused about the information I've been given from different sides. In the alternative, we are not trying to be dogmatic about energy supply and other things that are being talked about in this Chamber, but now that we are talking about energy and the energy system that is being built, I have tried to delve into it a little. But our conclusion is that what we want to do is to build a new renewable energy system, and the alternative is to build a new renewable energy system. We are pretty far ahead with it in Denmark and we can show the way, both for ourselves, but also in Europe and in the rest of the world, and what it is all about is developing with genuine renewable sources of energy. But the thorium-based technology that this proposal is about will never be a renewable energy source. Because it is about extracting something and pulling the energy out of it, and then you are left with a waste product, which is why it is not renewable energy, and that is why we cannot support the alternative either, that we should embark on this development as proposed by the Liberal Alliance with this proposal. So we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511215505	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Johannes Lebech, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511215515	At first sight, it might sound nice if we could arrive at what we might call pure nuclear energy. This is a dream shared by many, especially in the case of thorium, and I can also hear that this is the case with the rapporteur for the authors of the motion. However, in my opinion thorium technology is not pure technology, it is only cleaner than the technology now being used in this area, and it is probably only a dream. The experiments that have been carried out so far also show that in the enrichment process, which is a central part of the development of energy from thorium, there will be a radioactive material to be deposited. But I recognise that it is not as dangerous as the current technology. We in the Radical Left do not believe that it is the way to get nuclear energy in Denmark, and the knowledge we have about thorium does not change that view. Energy policy should remain on the green road and we do not see the new technology as green. Research exists abroad. It doesn't look as promising as the Liberal Alliance wants it to look, but okay, should it one day succeed in creating a clean nuclear power after research and it will of course mostly be in those countries where it has already been decided to have nuclear power, that the research will lie then it is fine with me, and I will welcome that, and I will give Liberal Alliance full derision and the right to call me old-fashioned at that time. I don't think I'm gonna be able to experience that because if I succeed, it'll take so many years that I'm old and I'm in a nursing home. But the discussion also goes first and foremost on the possibility of obtaining support for research, and there is nothing formal to prevent this research from happening in Denmark. This can also be clearly seen by the leader who was recently in the Engineer, who was written by Arne Steinmark. Because he also admits that there is nothing formal in the way, but I understand that the Liberal Alliance believes that there are such informal obstacles to that research. We are not opposed to free research, but we think that there may be grounds for prioritising research here in Denmark on research into green technologies, and this has actually been quite successful. After all, we have limited resources for our research in Denmark, and they have certainly not increased since the Liberal Alliance, together with the government, has helped cut research by 1.4 billion. kr. So I do not think that right now is the time to take up research in these areas, but I think we should stick to the green road, and I fully agree that we must be modern, forward-looking and have the will to experiment. However, I would like to support the green line, which is why we cannot support your proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511215751	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511215808	I have to say it as it is, I am a substitute for the usual SF rapporteur, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, who is unfortunately prevented from attending and as a substitute, I expect you to speak to me gently afterwards. SF is against subsidies for nuclear power, just as we are against subsidies for fossil energy. This also applies to research and development. Both forms of energy will exist in some countries, unfortunately even after we at home hopefully have removed coal, oil and gas from the energy supply. Nuclear power is an economic appendix of the great. Nowhere in the world are new nuclear projects started up without massive state aid, and we have to fight to deal with existing nuclear waste in the years to come just look at the fight about where Risus, after all, has limited amounts of radioactive waste to be placed. It is claimed that the thorium process is better than the uranium process. But is the risk of proliferation of nuclear weapons from the use of thorium as an energy source zero? No, it's not. Is there radioactive waste coming from a thorium reactor? Yes, there is. Renewable energy sources such as wind and solar are, on the other hand, power plants that draw both wind turbines and solar cells and solar heat. It is decentralized production units which can be used hightech and lowtech for example. in areas without extensive electricity grids. There are no problems with renewable sources of energy when it comes to terrorism, floods or earthquakes, and there are no problems with waste. It is a much better solution to invest in renewable energy sources rather than large, central plants, which may not have the problems of uranium plants on the same scale, but which still have major problems with waste and risk. The SF cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511220015	Then we would like to thank the interim rapporteur. That went well. I see no rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party, and that is why it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Villum Christensen, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511220035	Thank you. It is, of course, a pity that Conservatives are not here, because I should actually welcome Conservatives and say that they are very positive about this proposal. I understand that there are not so many friends in this debate. Nevertheless, I think it is positive that we should at least get the debate started, because we haven't talked about it since 1985. I also think it is an advantage to have the opportunity here from the platform to point out that it is actually possible with such a 100 g thorium equivalent to such a sphere as this to get enough energy for a very long life. So in here we should not give any chance at all. I would like to emphasise what I have said a few times down from my seat, namely that it is not a question of us disabling anything. We are just saying that it cannot be right for a knowledge society to decide for de facto and that is what we are talking about: there is something we do not want to know about at all. Imagine if it is true that this bullet can have so much potential and that we have said in advance that we will not be interested in that. I am not sure that our children and grandchildren will praise us for this. After all, it is absolutely evident that we are sending researchers out of the country because of our adoption in 1985. It is also absolutely evident that it is absurd to talk about national energy policy when we are connected at all levels and edges with the countries around us. So nuclear power comes through the power outlet. But we do not want to know that, because unfortunately, as I understand it, we would rather, for the majority, be responsible for an accident that happened 30-40 years ago. Of course there has been a lot of water running in the stream since then, and of course we are now not just inside the second or third, but in the fourth generation nuclear power. That is why I think I should say that, although some had little difficulty arguing against having to get hold of the old ghosts without really having to deal with the substance, I am nevertheless glad that, after all, we are getting the discussion started. A poll from Megafon a few days ago says that 40%. We think that we should do research in thorium 40 per cent. And among the young people it is a much, much higher number. So the debate will certainly come. I'm pretty comfortable with that. But it's a cool round, I can tell when the old ghosts have to be constantly pulled out. So, in those words, I would like to thank you for the debate. In particular, I am very pleased with the rapporteur of the Left. It is also the younger generation who was very nuanced in his deliberations. So I actually think there's gonna be hope. There will be a time when this will be the case again, and I should like to thank you for the debate, after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511220437	It is not quite over yet, because there is a brief comment from the young man, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Jakob Engel-Schmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511220445	Yeah. And I would like to thank the President for calling me a young man. With 32 summers, it might happen that some would consider you an adult. I also hope that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur has noticed that it is certainly not our part of the Assembly that has pulled the ghosts mentioned out of the debate file. But I simply have to ask you something. Now I got so nicely praised that I am almost completely sad and feel guilty by doing so, but nevertheless I do. Since the rapporteur is so committed and this commitment seems impressive to me, the rapporteur simply has to explain to the Danish Parliament why nothing more has been done by the Liberal Alliance to talk about this issue, which seems to be of great importance to the rapporteur and the party, to the Left, my own party, when the government basis was discussed; when the energy part of the bourgeois government was talked about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511220534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511220535	It is possible that there is a point in that view. Now I did not participate myself, and we also have other priorities, which I am sure the Left is aware of. We have other priorities when we have to be sharp in such serious matters as making government bases. When we have a good long period in here, we also have the opportunity to clean things up. And I can guarantee that this particular proposal has actually been very much around in research circles. Some of them are sitting here tonight. We've been very thorough with it. We weren't ready for that at the time. So we're quite sure there are some points. I can't wait till I don't know how old we're gonna be reading newspapers in a 10-15-20 year old. Then I would like to guarantee that the last word has not been said on this issue, and I think that is what I hear from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511220625	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511220627	Thank you. Down here from the rear row, I am sure from a purely visual point of view that the rapporteur will last another ten or fifteen years, so we will have an opportunity to examine the matter together. The only reason I ask is because the rapporteur has shown an admirable commitment. I am also asking because the Liberal Alliance in my optics is a party with many good qualities. Among other things: You are always able to tell us where the money is to come from when you propose how to use it, and you are also always able to help my own party remember that it is important that we give some more money back to people by lowering the tax. That is precisely why I am asking the question of both priority and the economy behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511220702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511220704	Just when we talk money, there is an area that we think is really important if we are to give priority to public funds. It's research. Research and development are really the only response to the energy challenges we have. It's not like we're paying 8 billion. kr. in support of wind turbines and solar energy and everything else. After all, it is not operating grants that give rise to development. No, it is technology leaps that change the world and, in fact, not political decisions. So all we can do to promote those technological leaps will be common sense. That is why, in fact, in our 2025 plan, which the questioner will remember from the election campaign, we have set 800 million. kr. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to measures to be taken against the emission of gaseous pollutants from diesel engines for use in vehicles of We'd like to spend money on research.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511220750	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511220805	The debate is open. I give the floor to the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511220834	I would like to start by thanking the proposers for giving us this evening the opportunity to discuss a very important subject. I hope that, on the basis of the proposal, we can have a good debate in this Chamber this evening and that this debate will provide a basis for us to strengthen students' prospects for a better link with the labour market in the long term. However, this is not a simple matter that we are discussing here. I will try to explain the matter and the complexity of the matter. In the draft parliamentary resolution, the Government is required to submit draft legislation amending the SU Act so that students in the course of SU-eligible internships can also receive remuneration from the company in which they are internship during their training. The authors of the proposal justify the proposal by stating that the SU does not provide sufficient support and that the students find it difficult to have paid study jobs alongside their internship. Furthermore, the authors of the proposal justify the proposal by fearing that fewer students will take an approved internship and that their job opportunities will be reduced after the end of their education. Against this background, the proposers propose an amendment to the SU Act. Under the rules in force it is not possible for a student to receive remuneration as part of a higher education course, unless it is clear from the rules on education that parts of the course are paid. Practical placements are part of all vocational and professional bachelor programmes and only exceptionally in Bachelor and Master's degree programmes. It is clear from the various training rules whether there is an internship in the training and whether the internship is paid or unpaid. Paragraph 5 of the SU Act provides that an education must be organized as a full-time education and be unpaid in order to give entitlement to SU. For this reason, the SU is given during unpaid internships and no SU during paid internships. SU is granted as a subsidy for the cost of living when you are not paid during your training course. The basic principle behind the current rules is that the student cannot receive both SU and salary for the same educational activity. Otherwise, there would be double support. If, as the proposal suggests, we change this, it can also have major economic consequences for an SU system which is already generous and therefore very costly. Students in vocational education and Bachelor's degree programmes, who today have paid internship as part of their education, do not receive SU during the paid internships. If, following on from the motion for a resolution which we are debating today, we had to consider that these students should also be able to receive SU during their paid placements, this would mean substantial additional costs. These are estimated to be nearly 400 million. kr. annual. Covering such expenditure would have to be found within the current framework of the SU system. I have taken note of the fact that the comments on the proposal relate primarily to the university area. That is why I must also point out that very few university courses contain actual internships. On the other hand, the research-based bachelor and master programmes may contain the so-called project-oriented programmes. It's the university's own decision. In these courses a company stay can form an integral part of a specific subject in the training. The course ends as in other subjects with a test where the student e.g. gives a written theoretically based assignment on a subject within the boundaries of the subject. The assessment shall be transferred to the diploma. A project-oriented course is not a real internship but a course of instruction. The student can therefore receive SU during these courses, and the university also receives full taximeter grants for these courses. It is therefore essential to distinguish in the debate on pay in internships between project-oriented courses, which are courses in university education, and internships, which are primarily part of the professional, bachelor and vocational academy programmes. To the authors' comments that students find it difficult to have a paid study job alongside their internship, I would like to stress that the institutions must organise higher education so that the student can conduct studies corresponding to 60 ECTS points each year of study. 60 ECTS points correspond to one year of full-time studies and require an average study load of 37 hours per week. This applies both when the ECTS points contain internships and when one receives theoretical instruction at one's educational institution. The time available for example. study jobs and other leisure work during the course of the training must therefore be the same throughout the course of the training. A full-time internship will normally be in the daytime with approx. 71⁄2 hours from Monday to Friday. Therefore, students during this course cannot have study jobs during these daytime hours, as the proposers point out. However, I would like to point out that there are also educational courses in the institutions which are in the same period. These students have the same challenges in terms of taking on study jobs as students during internships. It is therefore not a question of increasing the workload when taking part in traineeships. In addition, not all study jobs are in the daytime or Monday to Friday. As my speech here shows, this is not an uncomplicated matter, but a matter of a great many things that we must take into account. I agree that the intention behind the proposal to strengthen student involvement in the labour market is right. That is why I have initiated a survey of the so-called project-oriented processes. In addition, the survey must clarify the benefits and quality of the courses in order to assess how to support more practical teaching. I would suggest that Parliament await the consideration and possible changes to the legal basis until we know the outcome of the survey undertaken. Then I would like to invite the parties behind the SU settlement to negotiations on the results of the survey. The government cannot, therefore, support this motion for a resolution, as a whole, B 175. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511221615	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line. The first is Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511221630	B 175 will require the government to amend the SU Act so that students are given the opportunity to receive remuneration during SU eligible internships. For the Social Democrats, it is very positive that students are included in project-oriented courses, which are also known in popular terms as internships. In my speech, I shall use the two concepts synonymously. After all, the project-oriented course is a very good opportunity to create a link between the learning of the study and the tasks and demands that are solved and made in the labour market. There is no doubt about this. At the same time, we also know that employers attach great importance to practical experience in recruiting newly trained academics. Practice experience is central to creating the right connection between jobs and study. It was also on the grounds that the agreement on the adjustment of the progress reform stressed that training should be organised in such a way that there are good opportunities for internships. Traineeships support students' ability to become skilled and ready to make a difference in the workplace they become part of. This is for the benefit of both students and companies. That is why the position of the Socialists is also that we politically must support a good framework for internship or project-oriented courses. The motion for a resolution addresses an issue which was particularly discussed last spring. The discussion arose on the basis of a clarification of the SU rules carried out by the Board of Higher Education. The board stated that you must not receive a salary from your internship during an SU eligible internship. The decision was taken on the ground that training must not be paid if it is to give entitlement to the SU, i.e. it must not be double dependent. It is also, in itself, a sensible principle that we support. At the same time, however, it seems clear that the time has run a little from that interpretation when it comes to internships for university students. We have, of course, just as I said earlier on the adjustment of the progress reform, attached great importance to the fact that internship is good for the student. We need to create a framework for students to have real opportunities for internship, both when it comes to the rules of the study, but certainly also to the financial conditions, which everything else equal is a very important part of the student's life. The motion for a resolution concerns precisely the economic aspects and the conditions for traineeships. It seems reasonable to note here that the law today is doing more harm than good and it makes sense to look at the rules that they are today. As I said at the outset, the Socialists fully support the aim of the proposal. At the same time, we must also consider that the SU Act, which the proposal seeks to amend, is conciliation. That is why we must first of all deal with that fact and we want to respect conciliation. The Socialists cannot therefore support the proposal as it stands in its present wording. The solution, however, is not to reject the proposal completely. Not at all. On the contrary, I think we should continue to work, as the Minister also mentioned. Let's see how we solve this. We also want to look for a third way. We hope that the authors of the motion for a resolution will be prepared to work together in committee to achieve precisely the objective and, moreover, to maintain the aims of the proposal while respecting the circle of conciliation. This could be done through an amendment, for example, which instructed the government to call the conciliation circle for a discussion. I also welcome the fact that the Minister is already in favour of inviting the conciliation circle precisely to a discussion of this nature, so that it is possible to receive pay during merit-oriented project-oriented courses. So the Socialists would like to support the proposal if such an amendment could be adopted. It is certainly my impression and expectation and hope that there is very broad support in this House for this view. Another possibility, of course, could also be that the committee finds common ground on a report which is the basis for further work, but it is of course up to the proposers to assess it. However, on the part of the Socialists, I can say in any case that we hope that there will be a really constructive committee work which can result in us being able to meet the purpose of the proposal and at the same time respect the current conciliation. I believe that's possible. I also think it is important to ensure improved conditions for internship and project-oriented courses.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511222113	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511222123	Thank you. SF comes up with this proposal, which we recognise is placing itself in a field that we need to look into. At the same time, it is also an area of conciliation, as has been mentioned, so that any real discussion of changes in this area will have to take place within the SU group. At the same time, the proposal affects something fundamental in the structure and conditions of the SU and studies, with which a little more work needs to be done before solutions are chosen. If you look at different courses, it is interesting to see that some of the bachelor degree programmes, which have had a struggle to get away from paid internship and to SU in the internship, have succeeded in coming to SU. That is, for example, the case. was successful in nursing training, which was previously with paid internship, but today is with SU. Then there are those educators who today still have paid internship but who would very much like to go to SU. When they want to go to SU, it's all about the internship being really part of the study, and the training institution can in another way make demands on the internship. Will this proposal mean that the nurses' students will be paid on top of the SU? The proposal states that it is not possible to live off the SU and that students opt out of internships because of it. I have to say, then, that to the extent that internship is a real part of the training, it is surely not a theme to choose from, and then it is logical that it should be financed with the SU. If it's not part of the education, yes, then you shouldn't have SU. Then it is more like a study job if you are not just a teacher and thus both have to study, be part of the grading and receive pay from your internship. Then I know that it will be said that it is quite different with university students than with professional bachelor students, and that many companies want to pay for students during their internship. But I can be concerned whether we can still make demands from the educational institutions for the internship. As a starting point, I believe that an internship can be required at the SU, so that the company has a training obligation, but at the same time some relevant work is carried out to an extent that I hope is reasonably proportional to the resources to be used in relation to the training, in the same way as it is today with, for example, nursing training. If, in addition, there are real tasks for which the company wants to buy the student in addition to the internship period, it is just excellent. However, I would like to conclude by saying that the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal because, as I said, it is a conciliation area. I recognise that there is a desire on many sides to look at it and I will therefore accept the Minister's suggestion that we should be convened at some point, so that we in the Socialist Group can discuss on an appropriate occasion what can happen. Among other things: We also have to discuss professional candidates, who also give thought to some other constructions concerning the funding of the study and the internship, so in this context it might be obvious to look at different models, which could also accommodate these wishes for pay during the internship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511222427	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511222432	Thank you. The model we want is not the model we have on, for example. the training of teachers, where we also want to move from a salary to an SU. After all, the SU is completely replaced by an internship with pay. What we are proposing is that, within the limits of the free payment, we should be able to supplement our SU with a small salary. It must not be in any binding relationship, it must be as a recognition. It has worked before, and it also works elsewhere in Europe. Well, I think it was 2013 that they discovered that the law had been incorrectly enforced. Until then, even in here at Castle, a small salary was paid to interns. So it is actually about returning to something that has worked really well before, i.e. that you pay a small salary in addition to the SU, not at all a substitute for the SU. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is prepared to look at the re-establishment of such a model, in a future debate, for example. in a conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511222532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511222533	In principle, I will help look at all kinds of models for how this can work. I just think, as a starting point, that there is a conflict in saying that at the same time you are in a training-related internship at the SU and are paid. I mean, there are two different intentions in my head. One thing is that it has worked in practice and I cannot, in principle, see any significant problem in it if one gives one or an acknowledgment and there may be some costs that are covered etc. For what are some of the intentions that are the main ones in this process? And then I think that you mix a study job with a course of study, and it is not necessarily the same in my view.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511222624	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511222626	No, but first of all you just have to see that it has worked for many years, and this has been both a wish from students now, from many different associations and from Danish Business and Danish Industry. And for SF it is also very important that it remains the case that when you are internship, it is part of the training. You have some rights as a student. What is important to us is that it is an opportunity if the company wants to give a little acknowledgment. And I hope that the rapporteur will help to look forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511222657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511222658	As I said before, I would like to help look at all kinds of models. I am also aware that, depending on the direction of study one is looking at, there have been very different things done. So let's look at what works for the different subjects of study, and let's see if we can figure this out in the long term. I would be very happy to discuss this, certainly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511222721	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511222730	Thank you for the floor. I enjoy the people's rule when the people's regime cooperates, and I would like to start my rapporteur's speech by saying to the proposer, Mr. Mr Mark, I think that many parts of the resolution are really sensible. For several periods, the Left has developed and thought about how to strengthen young people who train and at the same time get into an internship. We know that the way to work often goes through knowing the job to which you are going and the labour market you want to be part of. At the same time, we are also concerned that students can make money alongside their studies, and we would like to look at some of the flexibility that may be available in this area. I am pleased that in his speech the Minister looked at the difference between actual internships and such project-oriented courses. There are a number of problems associated with this. In the project-oriented courses, which some call internships, as it is easier and better understandable, you get SU, but the university or the place of study you are at also receives a taximeter grant. This is not necessarily the case in the actual internships, legally separate, which also exist. This is a problem we want to bore out, it is a problem we need to look at and, as most people in the House are aware, there is a autumn waiting for us to look at the university funding system as well. That is why we in the Left are quite interested in moving forward with some of the good elements contained in the proposal. We would also like, in the context of the conciliation circle, when the problems have been identified, to talk further about how to look at this, under the initiative of the Minister. I am also aware that, despite many of the good intentions of the proposal, the SF has not arrived at how to finance the 0.4 billion proceeds. kr., I understand the proposal will cost the Treasury. It is not, in fact, because I have to repeat myself from the platform following several motions for resolutions, but I think it is a good idea to spend money, that we should also consider where that money should come from. Summa summarum is that we would like to look at how we can strengthen the link with the labour market by internships between training places and those organisations and companies that wish to offer it. We would also like to ensure that the rules are transparent and clear and reduce the transaction costs that can be incurred by companies and organisations by offering internships and facilitating the rules in relation to the learning-oriented courses, that is to say what we call the project-oriented courses, to make the confusion total, you must apologize. I've made our position clear. We welcome and recognise the intention, we see a great many good ideas in the proposal, but we are not yet ready to support the resolution. We are in the case of a different framework in which we identify the challenges that exist and where the Minister calls for a discussion in the circle involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511223031	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511223035	Thank you for that and thank you for the many positive statements. I'm glad to hear that we can work on finding a solution to this. If we have not worked with the 400 million, it is in fact because we do not believe that there should be a revenue of 400 million to finance what is our idea. In fact, I think the rapporteur knows that too. The way in which the rules were applied in the past was such that if you were in an internship at a workplace, they could give a recognition. On the contrary, this gave rise to tax revenue, and it was not the case that 4 million people went into the treasury because suddenly the rules began to be enforced differently. When the rapporteur says that this will cost 400 million, it is because the rules of this proposal are interpreted as meaning that journalists and other trainees should also suddenly have SU, and the rapporteur knows that this is not part of our intention. So I just want to say that this proposal, if you get it right, will not cost 400 million. That is also why I think it is very sensible to continue working on it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511223133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511223134	I'm glad to hear that. My intention is not to shoot the proposer or SF such motives in the shoes. I am merely considering how the proposal can be interpreted and what the ultimate cost must be. I fully understand that argument, sir. Jacob Mark has just made the point. That is another example of how complicated the rules are. We are talking about changing section 5 of the SU legislation. We do best, I think, in the conciliation circle. We are very interested in discussing the further process from here. I also believe that it would be best for all of us to do so in the framework of the budgetary reform that is on the way. But I also hope that Mr. Mr Mark notes that overall we are actually quite positive; we recognise that there is a problem and we acknowledge that we are actually happy to join Mr Mark in this. Jacob Mark and the other conciliation parties will help solve that challenge. That is probably the most positive thing I have said from the platform for a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511223231	Thank you for that, there are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511223250	First of all, I would like to congratulate the SF for raising this issue in the Parliamentary Chamber, because students' opportunities and economic conditions are also very important to us in the Enhedslisten. And it is very good that we can work together to get some sensible things done here. It is the case today that qualifying internships must be unpaid. Otherwise, you lose your SU, which means that most students have to live exclusively from the SU, because when you are internship, it is always full-time, as has been pointed out here in the proposal. And it just makes it really difficult to have a profit and opportunity to have a student job next to the internship. As I think most people are also well aware, it is just very, very difficult to manage exclusively for an SU when you have to pay your rent, buy food, etc., especially when it is over a whole internship period, which often comes up in six months' time. That is why we in the Enhedslist are really concerned that we will be able to see a trend that is becoming more and more intensified, namely that it is mostly well-off young people who have some parents who can support them financially during the internship, who have the opportunity to take an internship. In the Enhedslisten, we want as many students as possible to have the opportunity to take this internship, even if you don't have some rich parents in your hands, and that is why we also support this proposal. I think this is a very fine and sensible proposal. I also see it as a matter of giving a small grant on top of the SU, and this is a model we also know from internship abroad. Then that's the option there. If you are an intern in e.g. The European Parliament, it is a quite common practice that you get a few extra thousand kroner on top of your SU to help cover your cost of living. And that is exactly the model you could also look at introducing when it comes to internship in Denmark. So I think that would be right, very sensible to move on with. Then I would just like to say one small thing, which I think should generally be taken into account in connection with this internship and which we should also discuss further in connection with this proposal. It is that it should just never be the case that companies can use students as wage printers. This is something that I think should be taken very seriously today and that we should also be aware of whether there can be an enhanced trend if there is a wage in addition to the SU. This means, of course, that if you introduce such an additional scheme or a bonus on top of the SU, it is something that must also be discussed with the social partners. We need to have proper rules that ensure that there are good and proper conditions for students, so that they have a good learning course and are not exploited as cheap labour. This is, of course, something that we, the Enhedslisten, want to keep a very close eye on and very much want to be involved in discussing with the proposers and other parties. I am sure we are relatively in agreement that it is important to counter this. I would just like to say that all in all, I think that this proposal for a grant in the form of a paid supplement to the SU during the internship is a very good proposal, because it gives more students the opportunity to take an internship and at the same time have a sound financial starting point to cope with everyday life. So, of course, we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511223636	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511223650	In the Liberal Alliance, in 2015 we went to elections to remove the free amount of SU. That is to say, the maximum amount you have to earn before you have to start repaying part of your SU or, at worst, all of it. From this point of view, it is clear that we support the motion for a resolution. From our perspective, it is moving in the right direction in the sense that it deregulates the relationship between SU and earnings in a single area. In passing, it could be said that the whole process leading up to the fact that one cannot now have a small acknowledgment next to one's SU, perhaps shows some of the drawbacks of regulation at all. In other words, there was something that worked very well, with which everyone was satisfied, and which could be handled informally. Then you start to regulate it, and suddenly everything that used to be very simple becomes terribly complicated. Of course, we would like to see complete deregulation of the whole area here, but, as we support any initiative that is moving in the right direction, we naturally support the initiative here too. Allow me to point out that if the SF is in favour of the 2025 Liberal Alliance plan in the future at a rate of one element per year, the SF will already have joined the entire plan by 2046. It will certainly be 21 years too late, but since late is better than never, we are also happy about it. However, in the short term, we are looking forward to 2017, where according to the plan I have outlined, SF will then make its next proposal that translates our 2025 plan. In practical terms, there is the fact that the proposal involves the opening of the SU conciliation, and the proposers are also aware of this from previous discussions on the subject. This opens up some self-evident problems, and the conciliation mechanisms are, of course, as they are, so we are just assuming in the Liberal Alliance that the proposers are somehow prepared to fall into the format of the parliament's incorporated conciliation system. I'll tell you at the end of the day, sir. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party is prevented from attending this evening. I've made sure that he's quite apologized, and that's why I'm going to be on behalf of Mr. Knox. Anders Johansson states that the Conservative People's Party also supports the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511223942	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511223953	Let me just say that I am filling in for our rapporteur, Carolina Magdalene Maier. In the alternative, we believe that the combination of theory and practice in education is really important. An internship period may be crucial when a company chooses to hire a young newly trained employee. We therefore do not think that there should be any legal constraints which would prevent companies or young people from opting out of practice. On the other hand, we do not believe that there should be a completely free framework in relation to receiving SU and pay during the internship period. We are therefore happy to support the SF motion for a resolution. However, we look forward to clarifying in the committee's work the scope of the resolution. We would like to suggest that we look at the fact that the internship period is to be merited, regardless of whether it is paid or unpaid; that there should be the possibility of opting out of the SU during the internship period • it is not right now that the internship fee should be treated as paid work; and that the internship fee should as a starting point be part of the current free amount for the student. We look forward to creating a better framework for student internship in the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511224105	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Johannes Lebech, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511224111	I would just like to say, as has been said many times, that internship is an important part of the training. There are some who have been forced to opt out of it because of economic conditions. The Board of Institutions and Training Support and the Board of Appeal decided in a decision a few years ago that it is not legal to receive SU if you receive monthly grants from the place of internship. The then Minister, Sofie Carsten Nielsen, set in motion a study work to ensure that they could get this paid internship. We are therefore fully in agreement with the intentions of the proposal and think it is a good idea, but we note that the SU is a conciliation substance, and the Radicals are also in that conciliation, so we cannot vote in favour of the resolution. On the other hand, we will raise the matter with the Minister in the Socialist Group in the spirit of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511224201	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we come to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, Mr von der Vring. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511224220	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking you for the many positive statements that have been made during this debate. It almost seems to me and I almost say that there is a broad consensus that we should do something about this, and I have not had the opinion that this should be the kind of proposal that just had to be voted through, and I expected there to be a model tomorrow. On the contrary, I am concerned that we actually find a model that works for students and that has been worked through, and I hope that we can find that model very soon. That is why I am also quite prepared for us to have some discussions in committee on how such a proposal could look forward and also a proposal for the progress of the forward-looking process. I think that now that we have heard that there is a broad consensus that we should do something about this, it makes very good sense for us to let the Ministry make a suggestion as to what a proposal might be. I think it would be worrying if it were to be a discussion involving everything possible about the licensing system and professional candidates, which will also be exciting to discuss. I really think that, as soon as we have a work ready on a model, we should be called into conciliation, and then we should find an independent model. I would like to recommend this. But we are very pleased that it seems that a solution can be found. It is a much needed solution, and it is, I think, because the current rules do not really make sense. And it may be that it is because I am a little young, but when I heard about it the first time, I thought: Why is it that if you are in an internship and your employer would like to give you a little acknowledgment or a little pay for the work you do, then not? Why can't you receive it? And I feel basically that when both students from all sorts of different associations, when Danish Industry, as well as a wide range of parties across the Danish Parliament, say that this is an inappropriate law that may in fact prevent young people from entering project programmes or internships, or what we call them, I think that they should actually get it done as soon as possible. Then it is also a little related to the goal that we have in the SF, at least, that practice and theory should be better linked. I really believe that in the future we will be working to ensure that candidates have not necessarily experienced the inside of a lecture room, but that they have also experienced reality. I think we're going to work with the fact that not only do we know the theories from the social science books that I'm reading myself right now, when I'm writing the bachelor's assignment, but that you've actually been out to see what practice is. I think we are going to work much more to ensure that students have a closer link with the labour market, and I have also noted that the Minister said that they were willing to look at that. So let us quickly find a model for how we can soften up these rules, and let us then have a general discussion on how we can link universities' way of giving students lessons to practice. Then I would just like to recommend that we now find a good solution in committee, and then I expect the Minister to convene a conciliation meeting, and I personally hope that we will be able to make a proposal on this in the next session. I recognise that there are probably some complicated elements in it, but I also hear that there is a broad will around the Chamber to change the rules and some of the inappropriateness that lies there, and I also think that we can change it as early as the next session, if we want to. So I hope so. Thank you for a good treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511224619	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160511224634	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 12 May 2016, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
