ParlaMint-DK_20160212100007	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Tax Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill no. L 122 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the recovery of public debt, the law on child and youth benefits and the Law on collection. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 66 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on driving in hash affected condition). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Foreign Affairs (Kristian Jensen) has informed me that he wishes to do so pursuant to Rule 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on the development of EU cooperation in 2015. R 9). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Thursday, 3 March 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212100102	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212100123	The debate is open. Social Affairs and Home Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212100148	We are now discussing a motion for a resolution which will require the government to apologise to people who, years ago, have resided in the institutions of social and stupid care. The target group for the apology is people and now I quote from the motion for a resolution that has been neglected and where the state has not fulfilled its responsibilities in relation to their best interests. The motion for a resolution also requires the government to carry out an investigation which will shortly have to identify the target group for such an apology. There is no doubt that the conditions in institutions for children, the handicapped and people with disabilities 40-50 years ago have been tough in some places. It has not in all cases been nice or a nice life, nor has it been nice to live or grow up in such a place. In recent years, several thorough reports have been produced which have helped to give us important knowledge of what it has been like to live in these institutions. The 2011 report on conditions at the Boys' Home Godhavn and 18 other orphanages was the first step, and it was harsh reading about the upbringing of children and young people. Most recently, we have collected a number of eyewitness reports through the social history project, which was completed last year. Here previously placed have come to their attention and have told their personal story about e.g. to live in orphanages, psychiatric hospitals and social institutions. Before we got the report in history, we had very little knowledge of these people's lives. The preface to the report describes very aptly and I quote: one can say that a placement outside the home has also been a placement outside history. Now the former have been given an important voice in our social history, a voice that makes us wiser on what it was like to be placed. The report gives us a unique insight into the rapid development of the social area from the 1930s until 1980. But the report is also hard to read about the harsh experiences of some previously placed, often isolated from the rest of society. The proposers want the government to apologize for the treatment that some of these people who have been or have been hospitalized in the past have been subjected to, and this is something we can start with with a great deal of sympathy for. But I also believe that it is dangerous to try to judge the past by today's standards. It is not an attempt to defend what happened at the time, but it is a recognition that our society at that time was significantly different. At the time, for example, it was. allowed to beat children, both for parents and for teachers. It was also thought that it was best for those with disabilities to be kept away from the rest of society, for example. the white cut has been widely used in psychiatry. These are all examples which are absolutely horrible to imagine today. But how are we to answer in 2016 for what happened then and in a completely different time? The government cannot accept responsibility for how society was then constructed, for the laws and standards of the time and for the view of the people of the time. This has also been the line taken by successive governments in this matter, and that is why, in my quiet mind, of course, I am surprised that the Social Democrats suddenly want the government to apologize after having had four years with the government itself, where you could have apologized yourself if that was what you felt was the right thing to do. We cannot change the history of the former people, but even though it is many years ago, we must be aware that their accounts are also part of our common history. On the contrary, we must remember history, we must discuss it and we must learn from it so that we avoid repeating the mistakes of the past. That is why I am also glad that it has been the case recently that more books, reports and also a teaching material have been published about those previously placed in social history. This is important documentation for us, including for our children and for posterity. In fact, I am also pleased that, in 2014, we succeeded in a comprehensive political agreement, in which we have so greatly strengthened the supervision of the institutions of society's vulnerable groups by the supervisory reform adopted by all parties of the Folketing. Many previously placed children, mentally ill, developmentally handicapped and other people with disabilities have been subjected to conditions and harsh experiences that we today find unacceptable. There are people who are still marked by their experiences, even though it is many years ago, and I am sorry. They should have had better conditions and society should have taken better care of them, but these are historical conditions that we cannot change today, whether we wish we could. However, even though it has been a long time ago, we must remember to discuss this part of our common history too, so that we can help prevent the past from repeating itself. Through the Godhavn report and through the history report we have collected important knowledge and a number of eyewitness reports from relatives, staff and previously placed and inlaid about the past in social services. It is therefore the view of the government that we do not need any further clarification in this area, and that is why we do not intend to support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212100801	Thank you. Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212100809	Yes, we can. It's true that we can't change what happened back then, but we can change their story. One of the most important things in a healing process, when you have been subjected to systematic violence and punishment and humiliation and sexual abuse, and we can also see this with the modern examples, which are, moreover, that some adults take responsibility. This must, of course, be done preferably by the person who committed the attack itself, and that is why we have conflict councils. In fact, it is for the person who committed the assault to say: yes, I did something that was wrong with you. We cannot do that here, because these people are not here, and they cannot answer for it, but we, as a state, had a responsibility. And no, sexual abuse was not in order with the spectacles of the day, which is why things have been going on in the institutions that should have been dealt with. So, yes, we can change their history, and I would really like to ask the Minister a brief question, whether it is not true that the most important part of the healing process is precisely that someone assumes responsibility. That is what Godhavn's boys, who are also here today, are asking for, and so we can change their history by taking on that responsibility and giving them peace of mind and saying that it was not their fault that we should not be ashamed of it, but that there were adults to whom we as a state should have intervened. So does the Minister recognise that assuming responsibility can have an impact on one's life story in terms of being able to move forward after the things that have happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212100935	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212100938	I very much recognise the importance of the way in which we act and respond to what has happened to unacceptable things in the past, and I fully acknowledge that. What is being asked in this resolution is a broad apology and another explanation, and that is what I have said here that I do not think is the way to go. Because we fully recognise that there are people who have had an exceptionally hard upbringing and a life in the very institutions of that time, which are, after all, a long way from how we think we should be treated today, and therefore it is deeply regrettable that the conditions have been as they were historically, and that is deeply unhappy for the people involved. But I maintain the principle of whether a state in the present is going in and apologising for something that has happened in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212101033	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212101035	I heard the Minister's argument that an apology could not change history, that is to say that we cannot change their history, and I am not hearing the argument being unfolded, and that is to say that I am concerned that we are in a situation where, because the fact that a state has to give an apology is a new step to take, we are opposed to it. I think it is extremely important that we make it clear that yes, we can change human history. And they are sitting here today; they are living people who continue to carry guilt and shame and some experiences that the state should have intervened against. It is not, of course, a question of history in the institutions, because with the spectacles of the time these things were wrong. I would like to ask the Minister to acknowledge that what was going on with the glasses of that time was also wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212101125	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212101127	I do not think that this proposal can change history. What has happened historically has been terrible, and we have had many discussions about how. I fully agree, in human terms, that the things that have happened, even with the spectacles of the past, are by no means acceptable, they were not then, and neither are they today. And that's why we've done it, that we've collected this important knowledge. We just put our foot down and said this isn't okay. We've had this whole Godhavn report prepared and had the whole great social history project done, which for us and for me is a very, very important knowledge. These are just some eyewitness reports that, with this collection, we will not be forgotten. And it is not a debate about shame, it is a discussion about the fact that this was unacceptable, also seen with the spectacles of the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212101227	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212101230	I, like Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, responded to the argument that there should be historical facts. It is true that many things have happened in history, which are terrible, and one can say that a minister could stand there for a very long time and apologize if he was to apologize for all the things that have gone wrong in history, but I simply fundamentally disagree that one can call it a historical relationship. Because there are real people who have been exposed to this, and they are not history, because they are living now, and they live with what has happened, every single day. If the definition of historical conditions used by the Minister is correct, then what happened yesterday is also history, and then we should not apologise for what happened yesterday and has gone wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212101334	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212101336	When both Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil and Mrs Pernille Skipper say that we can change history, I just do not agree, and that is what is also at the heart of my line of reasoning here. We can't change the history of the past. But even though it has been many years since these terrible things happened, we must be so aware that their reports are part of our common history. It's a story we have to remember. It's a story, we have to. It's also a story I think we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212101421	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212101422	I fully agree with the Minister on this point. I mean, I think it is really, really important that we learn from it, and I also agree that we have supervision of children placed in care, is something that we are constantly discussing and that we must continue to discuss, but I do not agree that this is an historic relationship, something that belongs to the past. And so I would like to know whether the Minister does not understand that the real, living people who have been subjected to this may need someone to take responsibility for what has happened to them in order to move forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212101504	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212101506	I have a great deal of sympathy for that, very much. I am very sympathetic to the fact that, for example, the former Godhavnsboys need to be placed responsible for the conditions under which they grew up. Whether there is to be a responsibility for matters that have taken place more than 50 years ago is a matter for the courts, and the matter here is an appeal to the Court of Justice. It is simply to cement that this is an issue that is being dealt with by the courts. So that must be the confirmation of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212101546	Then it's mr. Jep Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212101550	Thank you. The minister says it hasn't, of course, been a nice upbringing. I think that is a good thing to say. I would also like to challenge the Minister's argument that we should not judge the past with today's legislation and standards. No, I can agree with that, but would the Minister not confirm that what was going on at the time was also illegal under the legislation of the time? The Minister also says in her reply to the questions from Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil that this is obviously not acceptable. No, there is a contradiction between the Minister's own speech, because what was then done with violence and abuse was not morally acceptable and not legally legal. That's the point here. Would the Minister not like to confirm that what was going on at that time was also illegal after the legislation of that time?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212101648	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212101650	I cannot explain in detail here from the platform what has happened, but I can at least say that I fully acknowledge that those people have had unfair relations. They have had a hard upbringing and also an upbringing, which we have probably not been able to accept with the glasses of that time, and which is, of course, far from how we believe today that vulnerable children and adults should be treated. It is deeply regrettable that the situation has historically been the way it is and it is deeply unhappy for the people it is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212101732	Sir. Jep Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212101734	Can the Minister not confirm that a sexual assault was also illegal at the time? I guess it can't be hard to make that assessment. It is not about such a major storywriting. But can the Minister not only confirm that, under the law in force at the time, it was also illegal to commit sexual abuse against children placed in custody?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212101757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212101758	I can at least confirm that the report we received back in May 2011 showed that there were a number of children placed in several orphanages who had been subjected to abuse and failure. In relation to Godhavn, the report showed that physical punishment and abuse took place at the time and that the state, up to 1970, simply failed to fulfil its supervisory obligation in a number of respects. That is also why the Godhavns boys have subsequently raised the claim for compensation, which then runs in the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212101837	Thank you. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212101841	I very much agree with the Minister that we must learn from history. If even a tough budget bishop like me feels compelled to speak today, it is, of course, because the story that has been rolled up in the specific case is very moving for everyone who has followed it. I have to go in and challenge the argument put forward by the Minister at the outset. The minister said it is dangerous to judge the past by today's standards. That's not what we're doing. What we are doing is actually looking at what happened at the time with exactly the legislative framework that existed then, including what Mr. Jeppe Bruus just argued that at that time sexual abuse was not permitted either. Let me also just remind you that the Minister has a party colleague, a former Prime Minister, Mr. Anders Fogh Rasmussen, who otherwise was fairly fresh in the bite in August 2003, when he related to history's wingsus, and how cooperation policy was during World War II. So the fact that you look back in different ways and choose to judge is not quite unusual either in the Minister's party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212101959	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212102002	Let me reply very briefly to that statement and say about the discussion about whether the state has had a responsibility in individual cases, that it should only be decided, if necessary, by the courts and not by the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212102017	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212102020	But hopefully we can also agree that if such a court decision shows that what happened at the time was wrong on the basis of the standards of that time, then there is also evidence to see whether there is a need for a formal apology as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212102043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212102045	I have explained in my speech how we have for a number of years gathered knowledge of what happened at the time and also ensured that the vulnerable have received a voice, that we have had eyewitness reports. I think that is crucially important knowledge for us in the present to learn from the past, so that we do not make the same mistakes in the present and also in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212102118	Then it is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212102122	Thank you. I take note of the Minister's statement that history cannot be changed. History is something that happens all the time. Stories are something we write together all the time, and our common history is important to each one of us. What has happened cannot really be changed, but the story or story that is about it can be changed. That is why I would like to hear: does the Minister recognise that it is possible to write new history, among other things. by making a mark that places responsibility and that it will affect the individual that we write such a story?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212102205	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212102207	This is going to be a bit of a repetition, because of course it revolves around the same issue, and it is, of course, the discussion about whether a responsibility can be placed for matters that took place more than 50 years ago. I think it is important to make it clear in the Chamber that this is a matter for the courts and that there is indeed a matter that has been appealed to the Court of Justice. That is why we cannot today stand in the Chamber and discuss what a court decision might be like.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212102241	Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212102246	Thank you. I am, of course, newly elected and am therefore interested to hear from the Minister whether any new information has been provided in some of these children's cases which make it more topical, more urgent, to give an apology now than it was for the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212102309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212102311	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I have explained the report we received back in 2011 which explains what happened back then, and I am aware that there has been no new information since that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212102327	Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212102328	I just have to get it right. What we are discussing now is on exactly the same basis as when the previous government discussed it, and the former Minister for Social Affairs Karen Hækkerup said no to apologize. Nothing has changed with regard to what we are discussing today, and one could have given oneself an apology when one had the power of government eight months ago. There has therefore been no new information which would have meant that something should have changed and which could have been the reason why you would rather have an apology given now than eight months ago, when you could have just apologized. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212102404	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212102406	Yes, that is quite correct, and that is also why, in my speech, I should like to express some surprise at the fact that we are dealing with this motion for a resolution today. For the line that has been followed, both by the previous government and by changing social ministers, has been exactly the same as the one I am describing today. So there has been no change in those conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212102430	Thank you, Minister. Here you go to Mrs. Susanne Eilersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212102514	We are dealing with B-55: an official apology to persons who have been mistreated by the state's social institutions. The Danish orphanage history has black chapters, says the comments on this proposal, and we in the Danish People's Party agree entirely with that. Therefore, it is also good that in 2011 we received the Godhavn report, which describes the conditions for children and those with disabilities from 1945 until sometime in the 1980s, while outlining the different legislations that were in force in the 1900s. And seen with today's glasses, you get both sad and mad; yes, it hurts completely into the soul to read what conditions children at state institutions lived under conditions we would under no circumstances accept today. We must learn from history, but also acknowledge and stand by the fact that it has taken place on the basis of the rules and standards of the day, and then rejoice that this Godhavn report and other documents in this black chapter have been written into our social storytelling. Unfortunately, we cannot change history, but we can help to ensure that it is not forgotten. We've listened to the Godhavn boys and their stories, and with them in my luggage, as a politician, I'm preoccupied with what I can do today. Unfortunately, there are also children today who are victims of neglect, and we are very concerned about preventing that. One of the things that the Danish People's Party has been very opposed to and is still opposed to is these so-called limitation periods, which we now see in the case of the Slagelsegirls. We would like to remove or at least change the current limitation periods in the case of failure to provide care or incest to children and young people who are placed, so that as an adult we also have the opportunity to deal with matters committed in childhood. Fortunately, conditions for children and disabled people are quite different today, but there is room for improvement, and that is why we have to make an effort every day. There is no tradition in Denmark of the kind of official excuses that this motion for a resolution calls for. It will always be the government in office that will have to take such responsibility if it is to be taken. The Danish People's Party, under the previous government, now has the same attitude to the issue under that government. In the Danish People's Party we find it difficult to see the effect of an apology, as it is difficult to apologize on behalf of others. However, as I have said, this is a decision which, in our opinion, lies solely with the government and not here in the Folketing. Therefore, the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212102800	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212102803	That really surprises me, because the Danish People's Party is in favour of removing the limitation period for children who have been subjected to sexual abuse. It is the same thing we are talking about here, so simply that later in life you can get an excuse for what has happened. The idea of that is precisely that you can go in and say that some people had a responsibility, that some people did something that was wrong and that they accept that responsibility. The state had a responsibility at the time to supervise these institutions. The State did not do that to a sufficient extent and therefore these things could happen. So I don't really get it. If I compare it with what the Danish People's Party thinks otherwise, then it will stick in all directions, and I would really like to have an explanation of the view.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212102845	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212102847	Thank you for the question. You can have that, too. It is, of course, as I explained twice that it is a government responsibility. We also said this and made a great deal of reference to it under the previous government, and we heard earlier that the former Minister for Social Affairs had the same position as the current Minister for Social Affairs. We are not in favour of changes in attitude, whether it is a red or a blue government that sits. We still believe that it is up to a government to make such a fundamental decision as to give an official apology. So we do not think it is our table, but that it is the table of the government that is sitting at all times to give such an apology.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212102927	Now you don't talk directly to people. No, I'm sorry). Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212102931	Should I understand it in that way that the Danish People's Party would vote for it if the government made it as a proposal? Well, I can't hear it any other way. If it is the responsibility of the current government to make an official apology, does that mean that the Danish People's Party would vote in favour of this proposal if it were the case that the government made it? If so, we just have to remember that the Danish People's Party sits on the crucial mandates. What lies in this motion for a resolution is that we are ordering the government to table such a proposal, which means that if the Danish People's Party voted in favour of this proposal, one would come from the government. So I just need to know if that's how I'm supposed to understand what's being said here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212103004	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212103005	It must be understood in this way that we think it is a little strange in relation to the previous government. This report has been before us for five years, and we would also have supported a previous government if it had come up with a proposal. Now we have to look at what kind of proposal you are making, but we do not think that this is something we as ordinary Members of Parliament should deal with. It has been a little sought after the report has been before us for five years and the author's party has had the power of government for the first four years of that time. So I think we could have taken it back then. I guess we'd have figured it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212103045	Sir. Jep Bruus, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212103047	Yes, now Christiansborg's talk is going on. That's Christiansborg tactics. Can the rapporteur just answer the question quite clearly: if the government put forward a proposal to apologize, would the Danish People's Party support it? That was one question. The second is that the rapporteur says: what has happened in the light of the standards and rules of the day. We'll have to go over that one more time. Will the rapporteur not confirm that the abuses that took place at that time include: was also illegal under the law of the day and was not acceptable according to the standards of the day? It may then be a little harder to relate to. But that was two questions. 1) Would the Danish People's Party support it if the government made the proposal? Will the rapporteur not confirm that the sexual abuse that took place at that time was also illegal under the legislation of that time?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212103143	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212103144	The Danish People's Party has not changed its point of view in this case since the Godhavn report appeared. We also said in 2014 under the then government that we thought it was a government matter if it is that an apology should be given. We just keep that quiet, no matter what color the government has at any given time. So we have not changed our point of view, as maybe other parties have over these five years. We just insist that the resolution lies solely with a government, and that is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212103226	Sir. Jep Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212103227	1) I was not given an answer to my one question, namely whether the rapporteur can confirm that what was going on at the time was illegal. The rapporteur can just say yes or no to that. 2) The rapporteur can also say yes or no to whether the way I understand the answer, even if it is Christiansborgtaktisk talk, is right, namely that the Danish People's Party would support it if the government came and said that an apology should be given.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212103254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212103255	I haven't seen any suggestions. We take a position from one proposal to another and, as I said, I can only refer again to what I said and say that we have not changed our position on this, regardless of which government has been in power. We've had the same opinion about it. Perhaps, as I also said in my presentation, such an apology does not have the effect that it should have. I would much rather look forward and look at what we can do for children.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212103326	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212103329	Now we are patient people, as the Godhavns boys have shown over time, so I am just asking the question quite simply: if a government, no matter what colour it may have, puts forward an official government proposal to apologize, will the Danish People's Party support it yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212103351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212103353	We have never said 'yes' or 'no' to a proposal until we have read the proposal in question, and I shall refer to that here too. We always welcome all the proposals, but we do not say 'yes' or 'no' to a proposal until we know the content of a given proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212103411	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212103413	I assume that we agree that it is quite clear what the problem is. The rapporteur himself says that this is a government matter. So in other words, if it is a government matter and a government has to decide that it is the right thing to do, will the Danish People's Party be against it if it is presented in the Parliamentary Chamber? That should be a relatively simple question to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212103440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212103442	If the then government, to which the rapporteur refers, had made a proposal, we would have looked at it with exactly the same spectacles as if there were a proposal from this government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212103458	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212103511	It is difficult to judge the past's actions on today's premises. That is what the Social Democratic Minister Karen Hækkerup said just three years ago when we last discussed an official excuse on behalf of the state for those of our fellow citizens who have been mistreated by the state's social institutions. Those were wise words followed by the Socialist Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Maja Panduro, who said: '... making an apology for something that has happened in a completely different time, when many of us were not yet born, makes no sense. ▪ Have things happened in Denmark in the past that are very difficult to understand in the present? Yes, and unfortunately the list is long. To mention only the cases that have been advanced with demands for an apology, there are: the Thule case of the forced displacement of Greenlandic prisoners, the bleeding, the kidney case of the mistreatment of kidney patients, the experiment with the 22 Greenlandic children sent to Denmark, the rejection of German refugees under Nazism and the compulsion of stupidity, as was still called at the time. Or what about e.g. The German girls who were cut bald and drove naked through the streets of Copenhagen so you could spit on them and mock them. Was that okay? And what about the white incision that was used as a treatment in psychiatry? And if we go further back, you can look up in Danske Law and read about how we Danes have cut the arms, legs and heads of people for crimes that are legal today. There have been witch burns. We've had slaves. Unfortunately, the list is long, and we as a nation and as a people certainly cannot be proud of all parts of our history. There is even the very close story: My own mother was sent away from home just 8 years old to come out and serve, as they called it then. My grandpa and grandmother were bad people? Certainly not, but it is difficult to judge the past's deeds on today's terms, as Karen Hækkerup so rightly said. Were the evil people who were responsible, for example, at the Godhavn institution, the very boys from Godhavn, who have long since become men, the main reason why we have this debate today? Yeah, a lot could indicate that. The Godhavn boys were subjected to systematic failure, violence and other punishment. There have been atrocities in institutions which, paradoxically, had been set in the world to provide care. There is no doubt that this treatment has given rise to human suffering, and otherwise we would not be standing here today discussing whether the state should apologize. Do I understand why you want an apology? Yes, I fully understand that. And do I want to give it? Sure, that'll be the easy solution. However, the word 'excuse' implies a recognition of guilt, responsibility and therefore also financial compensation if it is to make sense at all to assume responsibility. And guilt and liability are something that, in a rule of law, the courts have to deal with. These are very important, key principles that we are discussing today, and it is probably also very good that this is the case. How do we imagine that, as a Parliament, we should be able to judge who should have an apology and who should not? Just take my example from before about the German girls who were subjected to barbaric treatment after the occupation. Did the masses cross the line back then? Yeah. From today's viewpoint, it seems that there can be no two opinions on this matter, and the police turned a blind eye to it. But is there not also some understanding that after five years of occupation and after the crimes against humanity that Nazism was responsible for? Now we have some doubts. I fully understand that the two situations are of course not directly comparable. I'm just saying that we're running the risk of moving into a slippery slope that we can't imagine the consequences of. Does it make sense that Denmark anno 2016 apologises for the abuses in which Denmark anno 1966, 1946 or 1846 for that matter had more or less a share? See, not according to Mrs Maja Panduro, the then Socialist rapporteur. Does it make sense that the Socialists are today putting forward a resolution which they have had almost four years in government to implement themselves? No, it makes no sense at all, and I am also glad that the then government partner, the Radical Left, maintains its position so that I can say today that the rejection of the motion for a resolution by the Left is also a rejection by the Radical Left, whose rapporteur unfortunately was unable to take part in today's debate. A 'yes' to the motion for a resolution will lead to a completely new legal situation in which the Folketing will act as a court of law and take a position on matters of guilt that lie decades back in history. There are similar experiences in other countries, but I would warn against going the same way. In Norway, for example, various compensation schemes have been set up for former victims of violence and up to 2010 EUR 0.25 billion have been paid out. Norwegian crowns in compensation, and Sweden has done something similar. We cannot buy indulgence by separating ourselves from a dark chapter in our social and stupid welfare services, but fortunately we have learned from history. We recognise that there are people who have had a hard and inhuman upbringing in the institutions of the time, and we would never treat vulnerable children and adults in this way today. It is deeply regrettable that the conditions were as they were, and it is difficult to understand how very difficult it is, but it is also difficult to judge the past's actions on today's terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212104044	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212104047	Hel Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt should have done it, Lars Løkke Rasmussen should have done it, Anders Fogh Rasmussen should have done it, Poul Nyrup Rasmussen should have done it, Poul Schlüter should have done it, given an apology. Is that an argument for not doing this now? Is that the best argument that the Left can come up with that we should have done it eight months ago, and is it all right, as a government, that you are not doing it now? That is the thinnest argument I have ever heard. This is a 50-year-old story. Every fucking year you should have done it: give an apology, intervene, do something. Is that an excuse not to do it now? No, actually, I don't think so. In relation to this judgment of the past, regardless of which rapporteur from which party at which time in the Folketing, one might ask whether we can judge what took place in history with the spectacles of the present. Sometimes we can't. Is that a dilemma? Yes, it is. But sometimes it's also crystal clear. When we talk about sexual abuse of children when we talk about them being beaten in the head with keys by their teachers, can we judge whether it was illegal under the law of the time or not? Yeah, we can do that. After all, we must have some confidence in Parliament's intellect.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212104205	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212104206	It's not about faith in intellect. It is about trust in parliamentary politicians who are in elections every four years, and our ability to resist various pressures that may exist, various newspaper stories that may be etc. There may not be my faith as much as that of Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil. I am, in fact, pleased that we do not have a court of the people, which consists of us sitting in here, who must place blame and responsibility, but that it is left to some independent courts who are informed of the cases. If this case had been raised shortly after these things had taken place, would there have been a conviction? Probably. It's hard to imagine anything else. But it is not us in here who are the people's courts. The courts are the judge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212104302	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212104304	A popular court is characterized by its judging others, its place of guilt and responsibility towards others. In this case, we are talking about assessing what we ourselves did. There is a very big difference in principle. After all, it is not a question of placing guilt or responsibility on anyone other than ourselves. It is a question of us, like those who are the political leaders of a state, assuming responsibility for what was going on at that time. That is why, in principle, there is a very great difference between being a national court, as has been said here, and the state is assessing whether the state was right or wrong at the time. Will the rapporteur acknowledge this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212104344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212104346	Isn't it kind of easy, too? None of us sat in the Folketing at that time; many in here were not even born at that time. Isn't it a little light, a little cheap, a little meaningless? I ask the question, I'm not sure I have the answer. I can only say that it is an important principle of the rule of law that we have courts to place blame and responsibility, and I am very concerned that we, as Parliament, will be able to resist whatever comes of more or less justified demands for excuses in the future. I fully agree that this matter is very serious and that it is very difficult to see any apologetic moment in the things that have taken place back then. But that is precisely why it is also important that, in such a difficult matter as this, we maintain our principles.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212104440	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212104443	I am actually pleased that the rapporteur came to the heart of the matter and was honest at the end of his rapporteur's speech about what this is all about. Because if an apology was so indifferent and so meaningless and so meaningless and meaningless as the rapporteur says, then we might as well have given it. If it was so easy and so unimportant, why don't you bring it in? In fact, the rapporteur comes to the end of his speech as rapporteur: this is not about whether it makes sense to apologize for the mistakes of the past or not, or whether it is something that belongs to history or not, because it is about money. It is about the rapporteur not wanting us to have liability if we apologise on behalf of the state. There are citizens who have therefore brought proceedings with a symbolic claim of DKK 1. for an apology, but the state has claimed obsolescence. Does the rapporteur think that it is a good idea for the state to claim obsolescence?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212104559	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212104600	We reached the end of the question. So, basically, I think it is a very good idea to follow the laws that we have adopted in here, and that also includes the obsolescence law that we have adopted in here. Mrs Pernille Skip stands up and talks about the past and so on. We know how difficult it is to get Mrs Pernille Skipper's own party to apologise for the crazy regimes that her fellow party members have apologized for before Mrs Pernille Skipper entered politics. But if you know how difficult it can be, then perhaps you should have a little more understanding that we are judging the present on the basis of today's assumptions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212104642	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212104645	I am not even going to demean myself to give an answer, because we can take another debate on that another time. What I was asking was whether the rapporteur thought it was a good idea for the state to claim obsolescence in a matter which is, in principle, a matter of principle and which means that citizens cannot have a material assessment of the demands they face. I would also like to say this in other words: does the rapporteur think that this is a good idea, like others? The Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten have the task of abolishing the limitation period in cases of failure and neglect of children in state custody so that they can have a real assessment of the state's responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212104728	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212104730	Do I think it is a good idea for the DA to follow the legislation we have adopted in the Folketing? Yes, I think so - including the obsolescence law. Does the Enhedslisten even make the question of principle clear? Should we then sit and judge on a case-by-case basis and say: No, this one is out of date, but we may think it might be very reasonable, so we do not follow the law? We must then make a law which states that there is no obsolescence in certain types of proceedings. But we cannot say that we are now making a statute of limitations, and then it depends so little on what the mood is like in the case in question, whether to claim that the laws of the country should be followed or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212104812	Thank you. Sir. Jep Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212104813	Thank you. After 60 years, Denmark officially apologises for the first time that the Danish authorities actively helped to extradite Jewish refugees and other innocent people to Nazi Germany, as happened in the context of World War II. The apologies were given by the then Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen on 5 May. It was an official excuse for an historic event. And as Anders Fogh Rasmussen says: "An apology cannot change the story, but it can serve to acknowledge historical mistakes, so hopefully present and future generations will avoid similar mistakes in the future. • After all, it is a question of apologising and taking on both blame and responsibility from political groups. Can the rapporteur of the Left not confirm that it was possible for the then Prime Minister, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, and that this can therefore be done for current Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212104911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212104913	Well, I'm not talking about what can be done and what can't be done. I'm talking about what makes sense and what makes less sense. Did I hear the Minister acknowledge that there have been errors? Yeah. Did I hear the Minister say that, of course, we had never done the same thing today? Yeah. Did I hear the Minister say that what happened back then was horrible? Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212104941	Sir. Jep Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212104942	The speaker has not listened well enough because I heard the rapporteur make a very long speech about why it could not be at all a political responsibility to make an apology, but only a legal assessment that might be made in the courts. Then I refer to former Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen's apology from 2005. Then it is just that I ask the question: can the rapporteur not confirm that we can, of course, like Parliament and as a government, take on board our apologies for what happened then, which was also illegal after the legislation of the time?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212105016	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212105018	Well, it's gonna be a question and a dispute about words and concepts. If we imagine that we have to assume a responsibility and a liability, liability, conduct of liability, then it is a matter for the courts. It's important to me. It may not be important for so many others, but it is important for me that we have the division between power, i.e. the division of power, that we have some courts, that we have a government and that we have a Parliament. Otherwise, everything's gonna break down.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212105053	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212105109	The Godhavn report, which has been mentioned from up here sometimes, documented that in orphanages in, among others. Tisvilde has been systematically assaulted, mistreatment, sexual abuse, psychological terror and child failure. Fortunately, when the Godhavn report arrived, a long debate began, which unfortunately has not yet been brought to an end. The children who are now adults were in state custody. It was our community that was responsible for them. It was our community that failed. It was abuse that could have been avoided. They could have stopped if the community had lived up to its responsibilities and had taken real care of those children. It can destroy a human being to be subjected to failure and abuse to the extent that it has happened to others. The good-port boys. The psychological consequences are far more severe than the physical consequences. The scars on the soul are far deeper than those on the body, and the children who were abandoned then have struggled with the consequences ever since, also as adults. I am not for a single second in doubt that these people must have an excuse because the state and the community must acknowledge their responsibility. I am ashamed that this tall thing of which I am a member has not turned my back and taken the responsibility for the past as representatives of a society and a state that stood by while the lives and soul of children were torn apart. That responsibility has not been taken, although we will soon be round the 5th anniversary of the report, and even though we are now faced with the third government that has the chance. The Enhedslisten will, of course, be voting in favour of this motion for a resolution. There is no doubt about that. We will do everything we can to ensure that the goodport boys get the excuse they deserve. I also have to say that sometimes I may be losing hope, because in June it was five years ago that Kiær Benedike was Minister for Social Affairs and was in consultation called by Özlem Cekic from the SF and Mette Frederiksen from the Social Democrats, as I remember. She refused to apologize. Then Karen Hækkerup, Social Democrat, was Minister for Social Affairs. In January 2012, she refused to apologize to us in the Enhedslisten, even though we had expected it to come. SF's Annette Vilhelmsen managed to be Minister of Social Affairs. She made no apology, and Radicales Manu Sareen was Minister of Social Affairs and also rejected. Even when the godhavn boys went the court's way with a symbolic claim of 1 DKK. So this is not something you have to do. In fact, one might choose to say that this is such an important matter for all of us to resolve; for reasons of principle it is so important that we settle the matter that we do not claim limitation this time. Then we'll take the decision in the courts. You could do that. But you didn't. This was something that the then Minister of Justice, Mette Frederiksen, also held on to. I'm sorry. During the five years when the good-port boys have fought for an apology, the state has failed again and tried to avoid it, and I am really glad that this resolution is here. I really am, and we will vote in favour of it. I hope that this is the last time that the Socialists change their views on this issue, because it has not been a pretty process and the elected system certainly does not appear adorable. The last thing I want to say is that I think something is missing from this resolution. It is also necessary to clarify the economic question, because even if the godhavn boys only ask for 1 DKK. In compensation, they have now put money into trying to get an apology. They have lost money; they have to pay legal costs to the state, so I would very much like us to get into the final amendment, a report or other, so that we can ensure that that part is also included in the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212105632	The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212105640	After all, we are dealing with a very sympathetic motion for a resolution tabled by the Socialists. I think we all get a stomachache when we read about how children, in particular, have been let down in government custody. This is not only true when children are abandoned in state custody. This is true, for example. also when municipalities do not respond to notifications of displeasure in children in families. Whether you have failed in the custody of the state or the municipality fails in its core task when a child in the municipality is miserable, I believe that we can all understand that, as a victim, you need to be held responsible for the failure you have experienced as a child. That is what I understand is the intention of this motion for a resolution. It recognises that mistakes have been made and that responsibility has been assumed. That's what's in an apology. But why is it only children in the custody of the state that need this recognition? Is it necessarily a greater failure than the failure that these sisters in Slagelse have very recently experienced when the municipality failed by closing its eyes? I do not think so. I also believe that this is a major failure and that we must demand that responsibility be imposed, and I therefore believe that we should look elsewhere quite differently. We must remove the limitation period for children's cases, because then the boys from Godhavn could go to the courts, which could place the responsibility imposed on the state at that time. So we in the Liberal Alliance have full sympathy for these failed children. We think it is grotesque, and we would very much like to share responsibility. However, we believe that the right solution is to remove the limitation period so that the children who have been abandoned always, and when they are ready for it, no matter when they are ready for it, can go to court and have the case brought to court and that way through get the responsibility placed. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance welcome the fact that we have just heard the Minister of Justice speak positively about removing the limitation period. I also sense that there is broad support for that agenda among the parliamentary parties in general. So, in the Liberal Alliance, that is clearly the way we want to go, because we fully recognise the intention behind this resolution, but we therefore believe that responsibility should be placed through independent courts and not the current government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212105924	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212105927	It's a djøfargument par excellence that Liberal Alliance brought here. I mean, if the Liberal Alliance votes in favour of this proposal, it will be adopted so it is. Then we have a majority. Is it so crucial from the Liberal Alliance that you get a court order? Why can't the Liberal Alliance decide that there's been an attack? We have a huge report that has reviewed what is the problem. Against this background, it should be possible to decide that the state has made mistakes and that, on that basis, an apology should be given. Then we couldn't just say, instead of driving those djøfargumenter, there's a need for an apology here, and then let's give it. In fact, I entirely agree, and the Social Democratic Party has announced this, about the limitation periods, that there is no difference between what was going on for the girls in Slagelse and what we have seen in relation to Godhavn. It is only a question of what time in history it has happened at. Both are totally unacceptable and, of course, need to be tested in a court of law. However, I believe that on these points we have through-trawled it with reports and therefore have no need to go through long, grueling trials, but simply can give an apology. So, just a call for "Because I can hear us on long stretches agree that the Liberal Alliance is still considering pressing the green buttons so that we can get this done.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212110043	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212110045	Thank you. When the Liberal Alliance doesn't consider pressing the green buttons on this specific resolution, it's because we don't think this solves it for all children. It may solve it precisely for those children who want an apology, but removing the limitation period would solve the problem both for the boys from Godhavn, because they could place the responsibility that an apology is an expression of, and all other children. That is why we believe that the right thing would be to remove the limitation period, and now that we can see that the Minister of Justice is positive, we have taken the initiative on this before the summer recess, we think it is quite right to go that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212110122	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212110124	Now the two things don't stand in opposition to each other, do they? In other words, there is no contradiction between saying that here we are actually talking about some groups where there is also an extremely large investigation work, which means that here we know what we must and can move beyond the ice immediately, and then we can deal with the issue of limitation periods afterwards. I think that many years at Christiansborg have taught me that it is a good idea to take what you know to be a majority in favour of when the majority is there, who saves for the night etc., and I do not think there is a contradiction. Can the rapporteur not confirm that it is precisely here that we can adopt it here, go beyond the ice with the cases we know and have been clarified, and then we will be able to take a position on the limitation periods before the summer break, which we agree with the Liberal Alliance that something needs to be done about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212110208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212110210	There is no contradiction between giving an apology and removing the limitation period, in general terms, but what you are doing by saying yes to this is that you say that there are some children who are entitled to an apology more than other abandoned children, and we will not be doing that, because we do believe that the Slagelse case about the sisters is as bad as the Godhavn case, and that is why we will not help to apologize only to some people who are in favour of this motion for a resolution. That is why we want to remove the limitation period because it is the right thing to do and not just apologise to some people.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212110242	Then it's mr. Jep Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212110249	Thank you. If it were the case that only one bourgeois party wanted to join, then we would have a majority. As I can see from the discussion we have had, DF would support it if it were for the government to say yes, and the Left and Liberal Alliance to say no also with reference to the fundamental argument that the state cannot apologise; you cannot make a political apology; it must be up to the courts alone. So I have to ask: when Anders Fogh Rasmussen in 2005 gives an official Danish excuse for us to hand over refugees to Nazi Germany, which was a political excuse, was it so wrong in the Liberal Alliance's optics? And if that was not wrong, what is in the way of giving a political apology today to boys who have been subjected to abuses, which were also illegal under the laws of the time?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212110339	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212110342	Thank you. I have not, in fact, mentioned whether or not I think we can give a political apology. Because you can. You can choose to do so, and if you choose to do so, I think it is fine to look at it in concrete terms, let us say the case of the boys at Godhavn and say that here we think an apology should be given, because we can prove that what was going on was illegal at the time it was going on and that it is not about the offences of the time seen with the spectacles of the present time, but that we know that it was illegal. But then it is a question of a specific individual situation on which a specific government is taking a stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212110418	Sir. Jep Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212110421	That is precisely what is at issue here: a specific situation which is well-lit and which we say calls for an apology. That's exactly what's going on here. Should I understand the rapporteur in the sense that if the government were willing to say yes, would the Liberal Alliance also say yes? Then you take the same view as DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212110443	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212110446	No, in this motion for a resolution there is no specific case. This is about giving an apology to all children in the custody of the state or the stupid care system. It is not a concrete proposal for an individual case which one seems to have been quite grotesque. And yes, if the minister came and said they wanted to apologize for this, the Liberal Alliance would support the Minister in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212110511	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212110524	Well, now I get a little confused at a higher level, because first the rapporteur says that the Liberal Alliance cannot support this proposal because it only apologises to some children and not a lot of others, and then the rapporteur says that if there was a specific request from the government to apologise to the Godhavns boys, one would like to back it up. Isn't that a group of specific children? I just want to know: are people in the Liberal Alliance prepared to apologize, or are they not prepared to apologize?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212110552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212110554	The Liberal Alliance does not believe that it is up to the Folketing to apologize. We believe that it is a government that should apologise. That is to say, if a current government would apologize, they would be able to do so. If we do not want to say yes to this motion for a resolution as it stands here, it is because it sends out a signal that you want to apologize to some but if the government wants to go out and apologize on behalf of the government, the government can do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212110626	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212110629	So I would like to hear: where is it in this motion for a resolution that it is certain children who need an apology?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212110639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212110643	These are the children who are in the custody of the state, in other words in state institutions, and that is to say, children who have been in their own family and where the municipality has overlooked a number of reports of malpractice or sexual abuse, are not covered by this. And that is why these children would not be excused if they voted in favour of this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212110701	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212110709	Thank you. In the alternative, we have not been part of the debate that has been over the years on this subject in this Chamber, so we have in preparation for what we should think of this, tried to keep our eyes very, very directly on the matter and assessed it by our values, by our optics, our ethical glasses. We do not think that past historical assumptions excuse the illegal practices that have been committed over time in relation to the children referred to here. And we also think that the story is really alive in this hall today. When we can use our power here in the Folketing to give people an excuse that can ease the pain of unreasonable and innocent suffering, then we think it should be done. We have already heard examples of the suffering suffered by the people we are talking about today. And it is clear that those chapters of history cannot be rewritten. However, we have the influence to give the present victims, who have received disrespectful and sometimes cruel treatment, a well-intentioned and real apology. And I am sure that this will mean a relief for the living people who were innocently victims of the failures and atrocities of the institutions of the past. Among the requests I receive from organisations representing citizens who have suffered these failures, there is a great hope that today we agree to give an official apology. And there is also a desire for us to spend the day looking forward and ensuring that people with disabilities and special needs have a good life in the institutions. So the alternative is that we should apologise to the people who have been subjected to the hardships we are talking about today and that we should use the opportunity to remind ourselves that we must always work to ensure a good and dignified life for those citizens of our societies who, in their everyday lives, have become innocently dependent on the help of others.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212110933	Thank you to the rapporteur. As the Radical Left rapporteur is not present, we move on to Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212110946	If you are subjected to abuse and neglect, the most important thing in nature is to stop it so that you can feel safe again. But then, in order to move forward, it is important for those responsible for the abuses to assume responsibility. Many who are victims are burdened with guilt and shame, and they are burdened with doubts as to whether they themselves could have done anything to ensure that it did not happen. Those feelings are hard to live with, and the trauma can be difficult to process if no one clearly says: We were the ones who did something wrong and we apologize for the pain it has caused you. In 2011, the Godhavn report was published supported by the Ministry of Social Affairs. It clearly showed that the boys who had been placed in the boys' home had suffered massive failures, abuse and physical and psychological violence. The boys had been isolated from the surrounding community, had been subjected to over-medication, criminal acts and lack of supervision. Even after the standards of the time it was illegal what was going on, but due to obsolescence there has never been a judgment. The SF then took the initiative to get the then government to give an official apology on behalf of the state by calling for consultation, but there was no support for that. We hope that it will be possible to do so now, and it is good that this motion for a resolution also provides for a study to be carried out and that excuses can be given to others who have been the victims of failure on the part of social and mental welfare services. There are also stories about forcedsterilisation, the forced relocation of Greenlandic children and neglect in special care. At the same time, it is important that we, as a society, have written into history, that we have finally come to an end with the past, so that we can learn from it and so that the social policy of the future will be based on very different values. Fortunately, today, thanks to a red majority, we have had the right of revulsion lifted. We have good social-educational care environments, we have been given much better supervision and we have been given more focus on the protection of children and their rights. That is the way forward. But it is time to apologize to those who unfortunately did not have those conditions. The affected are still alive and some of them are sitting in the spectators, and there may be some who are watching TV. They live with a shame and some trauma that it is difficult to reduce as long as no one takes responsibility for what has happened. We want this to happen in the SF and we therefore support the proposal. And I would also like to say that, in addition, we are quite ready to change the limitation period so that we can avoid that responsibility for failure and abuse cannot be placed. There's gotta be a line in the sand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212111254	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. And there has just been a request for a brief comment, so just hold on for a moment. Here you go, Mrs. Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212111304	Thank you. I just want to hear from the rapporteur what has happened since the rapporteur's former President, Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen, was Minister for Social Affairs and said no to giving an official apology and until now. So what has happened since the SF was responsible and could have done so, now that you have no responsibility and where you are in opposition and think that some others should do so? What's happened since you changed your mind?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212111329	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212111333	In fact, I do not think anyone is in any doubt as to where the SF has been in this case all the time, in that it was Özlem Cekic who called for consultation with the then Conservative Minister for Social Affairs precisely because of this. I can just say clearly that if you are a government where there is more than one party, then you have to agree, and the government was not. We had to make a joint decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212111359	Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212111403	So what the rapporteur says is that when the rapporteur's party, the Socialist People's Party, was in power and one sat in the ministerial post, it was said that one would not give an official apology, but it was not really the same opinion, because it was because one could not agree with the other members of the government? Is that correct? And can the rapporteur also understand that it sounds a little hollow for us other parties to hear one rapporteur after another stand and demand an apology when one has had the power and did nothing when one had the opportunity?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212111435	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212111437	I just want to say that I would urge Laura Lindahl's party to become part of a government. Then you will be aware that not all the views you have can be implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212111450	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Mette Abildgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212111458	We have much to be proud of in Danish history, and we are not afraid to look back on the many good memories and revive them. Everyone likes to be proud of their country. Unfortunately, however, we also have many failures in our conscience as a nation, and the failure is not diminished by the fact that in posterity they are being silenced to death. We cannot be familiar with those who suffered from the failures and who are therefore left with scars on the soul. Let me be quite clear: yes, through the history of Denmark we have failed some of the vulnerable groups to which we, as a society, had a very special responsibility. The Godhavn boys are just one example of this, but unfortunately it is an example that is heartbreaking in everyone's consciousness. We owe it to these children to do everything in our power to ensure that similar failures do not happen again in the future. I understand that there is someone left with the wish for an official apology from Denmark, but we in the Conservative People's Party believe that it is difficult in the present to apologize for something that happened in the past, even though we have no doubt that things happened that were not legal. Only those responsible can apologise, and it cannot be said that the current Prime Minister bears a responsibility. We are also concerned that this could set a precedent for excuses. For example, should we also apologize for the liquidation of informers and others in their company after World War II, without those responsible being prosecuted? There we failed to have fundamental legal principles, which are otherwise fundamental in a state. The hard part is where we draw the line. Then I have to say that having this debate today would not have been at all topical or necessary if the proposers themselves had acted when they had the opportunity to do so. If we could in any way give moral recognition that what happened at that time was not in order, then I would think it was great, but it must be up to the government to take that initiative. I do not think that is something that should be imposed by the Danish Parliament. We as a party are also ready to discuss the limitation period. It would be best if this could be done in the legal system, and there is no doubt that there is a time limit. Finally, I would just like to say that the things that have taken place are disgusting, and excuse or not, the failures that have taken place will never be in order. In those words, I must say that we do not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212111805	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212111814	The history of Denmark is, in many ways, the history of a country that has developed social policy with an enormous haste and a tremendous force. Without comparison, we are today one of the world's best societies. We have a high level of equality, we have significantly fewer social problems, we have a high level of security, protection and rights, not least for our vulnerable citizens. We have much to be proud of both today and in our history. But we still have major and massive social challenges, and unfortunately we still have what I would call blind spots. The blind spots exist today when the negative social heritage becomes more important than our abilities; when children are neglected, first in their homes and subsequently by the authorities, and when poor living conditions are not sufficiently challenged by the rest of us and changed. And the blind spots are in our history. That is what today's debate has been about. The Danish Parliament is today debating a motion for a resolution which represents one of the darkest chapters in recent Danish history; a chapter so dull and so difficult to understand and with such great human costs that it is almost impossible to comprehend. As part of the modern history of Denmark, we have a number of fellow citizens who have been placed in orphanages in the post-war period. In some places, conditions were decent, at least seen through contemporary spectacles, but in other places conditions were inhumane. The Godhavn report tells of children who have been raped; children who have been abused and mistreated, both in terms of wrong educational principles and almost worst of all a total lack of human care. And in the then stupid care system, which actually worked until 1980, we know that people with disabilities have been stashed away, forced-sterilized and deprived of their freedom and their dignity. We know that there are children who, against their will, have been deported from Greenland to Denmark both against their own will and against the will of the family. All of this sounds like a distant past and a completely different society, but it's not a distant past. Those who were boys at the orphanages in the 1960s are today grown men, and more are present in the hall. And some of the women who were deprived of maternity and who, on the basis of dubious psychiatric statements, were declared stupid are living today. That is why it is not right for the current Minister of Social Affairs to say that this was a different time. This is our time. Perhaps the worst thing is that common to the many is that the rest of us have not seen them. Too many people here in Denmark do not know the story of the boys from Godhavn; about those who came to Sprogø; about the children who were cared for, mistreated and neglected the most seriously. In our social collective memory, this shadow side of our development has not yet found its place. That is why we are tabling the motion for a resolution. For the dark chapter of the history of Denmark must go out into the light. It's going into the Assembly Hall. It must be part of our memory, our understanding and our development, and the victims must be excused. As a society, we now have the opportunity to assume the responsibility we failed at that time. It is true that a number of people have said that we in Denmark have no long tradition of apologising. And I know that through today's glasses you can judge the past wrong. But systematic violence, rape and other sexual abuse have never been within the scope of the law. The lack of control and supervision on the part of the authorities in themselves represents a double failure. The far too blind belief in the words of few doctors in Dumb care represents both a professional and a human failure. I fully recognise that it is difficult, from a technical point of view, to define who should have an excuse and who should not. But let us begin the difficult process. Let's get the professional evaluation done.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212112338	Excuse me, rapporteur, just a moment. I'm gonna ask you not to flash. You can photograph, but you can't blitz. It's pretty disturbing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212112346	Let us go through the difficult process, because we will not move forward as a society unless we try to do so. I would like to thank the Enhedslisten, the SF and the Alternative for supporting the resolution. Unfortunately, I am not surprised that the Left, Conservatives and Liberals do not want to support it. What is more strange is the rejection of the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left here. I guess it's hard to say that you want some of the most vulnerable groups if you're not willing to start this discussion when you get the opportunity. I would also like to insist, following today's debate, that we, as a society, apologise for two reasons. Among those who have been subjected to the abuses we have discussed today are still alive. For them, the situation is not the past, it is the present. They live their lives, many with scars on body and soul, and perhaps worse than that, so after conversations with several of the affected, I know that many still live with the doubts, shame and guilt about the abuses that took place. They live with the grief of those comrades who couldn't make a life work. It is probably too much to hope that an official apology will automatically bring forgiveness for the victims of the atrocities, but an apology will help that some of the guilt that was beaten into the boys' bodies is lifted from their shoulders, the shoulders that have carried burdens throughout a lifetime that no human being in our society should be subjected to. And I know from discussions with several of those concerned, which this resolution deals with, that compensation is not the primary objective, for example. For the Godhavn boys' fight. I myself am both open and positive about the issue of compensation. I think that in many ways it would be incredibly reasonable. We have to do that right. I think we can find a solution to that, too. It is our history that has made Denmark the country we are today for good and for evil. The ruthlessness with which the Godhavn boys and others with them have been met is part of who we are as a population and as a society. But how we move forward, we decide here. Perhaps I can put it so simply that I believe that today's resolution is about decency. If we, as a society, are to become wiser and know with an upright forehead that we have had the courage to face up to our own history, I think it takes an apology, an honest and sincere apology, to begin the journey, it is also to heal the wounds of our history in order to give the affected a well-deserved rest and a certainty that the state that failed once sincerely regrets its deeds and the failure to which they are met. So, after all, the resolution here is about decency.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212112723	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are some brief comments, first Susanne Eilersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212112729	Thank you. Well, decency, now I am here with an article from Information from 09.01.2012, right after the rapporteur came into government and got a central role, and there I would like to read a quote from Poul-Erik-Erik Rasmussen, who is the spokesman for the Godhavns boys. The quote starts: "We thought we had the support of the Social Democrats, but now they're not bothering us anymore. It's like they've just used us to gain power. Will the rapporteur elaborate on that quote?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212112801	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212112802	Now it is difficult for me to elaborate on one quote from another, but I know Poul quite well and have also talked to him and other Godhavns boys. I believe that we made the mistake as a government that we ourselves did not achieve this, and what I have the opportunity to do now is to correct it both as chairman of the Social Democratic Party and as Prime Minister's candidate. I'd rather get to work now. That is why we have tabled the motion for a resolution. If we cannot get a majority in the current Parliament, it is a battle that we will continue to fight. However, the fact that mistakes may have been made by previous governments should not, as such, prevent the Danish People's Party from making the right decision today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212112843	Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212112846	After all, it is precisely the rapporteur who has himself been quoted in this article, and for which we could see that the rapporteur has fought enthusiastically on the basis of the conciliation that took place in June 2011. I can then read further down in the article that Poul-Erik-Erik Rasmussen, who had chosen to contact the rapporteur himself, says, and I quote again: "But I was just swept by: it was no longer her table. Then I would like to hear from the rapporteur: why is it that it is the rapporteur's table when the rapporteur is in opposition, and when the rapporteur then comes in and gets a large central position in a government, then the rapporteur's table is no longer?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212112928	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212112930	As I said before, I believe that we made a mistake in not having this implemented while we were in government. Quite frankly, it is true that with the post I contested at that time in the government, it would not be a matter for you as a blackmail minister, but that does not change the fact that we now have the opportunity to have another decision taken. I acknowledge the mistakes we have made in the Social Democratic Party. I stand here today and say that now we want to get it implemented and can expect the Danish People's Party to do the same, namely what does the Danish People's Party want? Now we have the opportunity to vote in favour. Let's apologize to the victims.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212113009	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212113017	Before we had a rare glimpse of the disagreements in the previous government, I could understand that it was not the SF who had opposed the fact that an apology was given at that time, on the contrary. I could also understand from Mrs Mette Frederiksen's speech here that Mrs Mette Frederiksen is surprised that the Radical Left has the view that they have, so it must mean that the Radical Left did not at that time speak out against apologizing. I must conclude that it was the Socialists who were then to blame for the decision on the indecent refusal to apologise. Can we have an official apology on behalf of the Socialists for the erroneous policy of the previous period?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212113106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212113109	So it is a strange trend that has come to Christiansborg. When I stand on the platform today and say that it was a mistake that we did not do it, that is what has been said. So why don't you come up with something new to discuss in the next question, because now it is the Left that rejects it. The Left has the opportunity to vote in favour. Yes, I think it was a mistake that we didn't do it when we were in government. I would like to correct that mistake because I think it is important. I think this is important. For me, it is not just a motion for a resolution on a Friday morning. For me, this is the opportunity for us, as a parliament and as a Parliament, to face the past and to create a basis on which we can apologise to those concerned. And we can make this a christiansborg question. We do that diligently in practically every respect or we can discuss the content, because what we have been told is essentially the explanation of why we should not vote in favour is that it belongs to another time. But it wasn't another time. It's our time. Those who were boys then are sitting in the gallery now. They're alive. It was not another time, it was our time, and I think we should get to the core and deal with the substance: do we want to give an apology or not? I think the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212113214	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212113216	The felony after the occupation is also our time. There are also people from then who live. So this is a very big fundamental debate on the substance. I note that I was not given an answer as to whether it was the Socialists who were responsible at the time for the government not making an apology at that time. Nor did I hear Mrs Mette Frederiksen apologize in her mouth, other than to say that mistakes had been made. I think everyone can see that there is, also against the Godhavns boys, but I didn't hear that we got an official apology.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212113248	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212113250	When, as a government, you make decisions, you do it as a collective. It probably has a slightly less collective impact when you are a one party government, but when you are more parties, you make decisions collectively. This is true in this case, as it is for everyone else. I have no problem at all in saying that I believe we made a mistake in not having this done. The Godhavn boys, the women who have been forced tosterilized and the Greenlandic children who have been deported to Denmark against their will need an official apology. We want to give it, and I really think it would suit the other parties in the Folketing to decide whether or not to go that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212113331	The last person who has asked for a brief comment is Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212113335	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's intervention. In terms of decency, does the rapporteur not think that it would be more decent rather than as a parliament or government to give an apology to some children to remove the limitation period, so that all failed children in Denmark always have an opportunity to place the responsibility that lies heavy on their shoulders? Is it not precisely by removing the limitation period that we look the past in the eye and stand by our present-day responsibilities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212113408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212113410	Why actually make it a question of either-or? Why not make it a matter of boats and boats? In other words, we have limitation periods in a number of areas, both in the field of social policy and in the field of legal policy, and we can just start that discussion on limitation periods. Moreover, it has started again in the wake of a topical case for children, which, I suppose, confirms the need for us, as a society, to face it when we fail some of our most vulnerable groups, and it still takes place in the social field. So I and the Social Democratic Party are also very positive about discussing limitation periods. That is a very topical and necessary question. But why make it a either-or? Why not make it a boat-and-a-boat?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212113452	Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212113456	Thank you. When I do not think that this is a matter of boats and boats, it is because I see an apology as the same as what you do when you impose responsibility or take responsibility, i.e. when you place responsibility for the actions that have been carried out. That is what I see an apology being a symbol of, just as I see it when the courts do. That is why I think it is the same thing that you get out of it if you go to a court that has the responsibility; it is the same as the excuse you want to give. And I think it is more right to do it through the courts, so that applies to everyone as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212113531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212113534	But we know from a number of other communities this way of working. I mean, if we do this, I can't get a majority for it today, but I hope we will have that one day. We will of course join a number of other countries that have also apologized for the abuses that have taken place. For example, it may be against an indigenous population or other. So the very thing, that is, the instrument, is not unknown. And I'm having a little trouble understanding why the order should be better. Why should the victims from then on have to lift the burden of proof and raise a case? Why don't we take it on our shoulders? We have everything else equal more resources and more muscles to be able to lift the debate, namely by taking an official position as a state and as a society and saying: mistakes were made that were committed. Victims are still alive, they must have it lifted off their shoulders, and it is the Folketing who can do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212113631	One further comment has been asked for briefly, and that is Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212113638	Thank you. I would like to know whether Mrs Mette Frederiksen, if she becomes Prime Minister, will also give an official apology to the informants, but also those in their company who were wound up after the Second World War. It was never followed up in the judicial system, and they didn't get the ones who did these murders. There are even examples of attempts by the State to cover up the studies that were of it at the time. What we are talking about today is a fundamental breach and failure of socially vulnerable children. What I am mentioning here is a fundamental failure in terms of legal certainty in our society. So I just want to know if there are plans to apologize for that, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212113716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212113719	I have no plans to go into questions about World War II. I do not wish to deny that it may be appropriate to do so. What I have the professional qualifications for today in connection with the motion for a resolution under discussion is to deal with, both in terms of the Folketing and myself, what has happened in our social services and in the social field in general, in recent times. For me, it is very clear, and it is very much emphasized both in witness statements, but also in the more official writings that lie in this area now, that we are dealing with a failure in existing legislation, that we are dealing with a failure beyond the legislation, that is to say, abuses, which were also illegal at that time and then, moreover, in a double failure, by having dealt with a number of supervisory authorities and supervisory bodies that have been corrupted and failed to fulfil their responsibilities. It is so incredibly clear to me that it must be an apology. I am not in a position to give a full answer to questions about World War II.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212113823	Mrs. Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212113826	It is also quite fair, and that is not what we are discussing today. I am simply giving the example of emphasising that this is a difficult matter, where it can be difficult to draw a line in the sand and say: this is where we apologize and this is where we do not apologize. Speaking of the matter I am raising here, I would like to mention that it is therefore also very much supported by the fact that there is a real problem. It was really just my point to stress that it can be difficult to draw a line in the sand for when to apologize and when not to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212113850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212113853	But I didn't say it wasn't hard. I have not said that there is no need for further professional assessments and demarcations. All I really ask is that we get to work on this, even if it is difficult. It is, in my opinion, a pity, in its own way, for our people's government, if we stop a necessary process because it is difficult. Well, then we'll have to start with it. As I said before: when it comes to the social area, I think it is quite clear why it is necessary to start this work. The difficult discussions I am sure we can find a definition and a conclusion if we think about them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212113936	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor. As this is the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212114005	The debate is open. First I give the floor to the Minister of Taxation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212114017	Thank you. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution by the Liberal Alliance on the removal of open tax lists. I would like to start by saying that I am pleased to have the opportunity to discuss the open tax lists and, above all, it is in the motion for a resolution that the lists have had the positive effect on the corporate tax payment, which was originally the reason for the introduction of the lists. I think that those who can recall it lie some years ago, three years ago, remember that there was a lot of debate on that part. With this motion for a resolution, the Liberal Alliance wants to oblige the government to remove the open tax lists from the SKAT website and to stop publishing them in the future. It is the view of the Liberal Alliance that the open tax lists do not give a true picture of the reason for a given company's corporate tax payment. The open tax lists have been in operation for three years and, as you know, became unknown or perhaps unknown, but at least now the proposal is made by the previous government, which was made up of the Social Democrats, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party, and it was adopted in the Folketing by a narrow majority of the three parties and the Enhedslisten. We in the Left have been opposed from the outset to the open tax lists. Why do we have that? We do so because, firstly, we do not believe that the tax lists show the full picture of the total social contributions of companies. The company tax is a piece, a small part of the positive contribution that business helps to make to Danish society. Without a well-functioning economy, we will not create the jobs that are basically the foundation of the welfare society that Denmark is today and that we want it to remain. Secondly, we cannot accept in any way that some companies feel hung up or, rather, that there can be both common sense in and a whole series of completely legal explanations and reasons for that. It could, for example, be done. the company has not made any money and that the company therefore has a deficit. It may also be that there are very, very large investments in the company in question which, according to the tax rules, can be deducted completely legally and that the investments then make it impossible to pay corporation tax that year or that year. And that's some investments. You have to remember that the Danish society as such can benefit greatly, very much, because it can be investment in new technology, new jobs and hopefully in the long term an increase in earnings to the company and thus also an increase in earnings to the Treasury. Thirdly, I am not aware of studies that show that the motion for a resolution also states that opening tax lists should have a positive effect on corporate tax payments, which was a key consideration when the bill was adopted at the time. That is not to say that it does not have it because you do not have an investigation into it and somewhere you cannot rule out that it has an effect, but there are therefore no studies showing that open tax lists should have a positive effect on corporate tax payments. But although the Left and therefore the government are not in favour of the open tax lists, it is my basic view, both as a Member of Parliament, and as a minister, that it is no use for me as a minister to remove the tax lists if a majority in the Folketing wants to preserve them. And if I have to elaborate on that, I have to say that over the past few years there has been some uncertainty about the possibility of having a majority support for this abolition. I know that there is an agreement among the majority of parties that there are open tax lists. But with this discussion of the motion for a resolution we will finally have a clarification of the political situation, and I look forward to that, of course. But I do not want to do as a tax minister what a majority in the Folketing does not want me to do, and as long as there is an agreement, one could imagine it. However, we will be able to clarify this when this resolution is finished today or when it comes to the second and last reading later in the assembly. To conclude, as I have also said before, I would like to end the slumbering of the open tax lists into a negative rhetoric that hangs the companies out, and I have also indicated that I am willing to discuss the open tax lists if it turns out that there is a political majority in favour of abolition, and the debate today will show that. The position of the government is clear, and it is the same as when the Left was in opposition: we do not want the open tax lists, and the government can therefore support the resolution of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212114537	One person has asked for a brief comment. It's sir. Jep Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212114544	Thank you. It is a rather strange situation, I think, that one has a tax minister and a government that now wants greater secrecy on something as basic as company information on what they pay in corporation tax, as long as the information which the Minister himself refers to is shown in their accounts elsewhere. So here the only question is whether you want to be able to go in and check it out on a list that lies with the Treasury. Then the Minister says that there are some companies that may feel hung out. What kind of companies are these? When I look down through the history, I don't see that there are a lot of companies that really feel that this violates their companies that they feel hung out. That is the first question. Then the minister also says that this should not be sauced into negative rhetoric. Who is it that has grazed it into negative rhetoric? When you look at what we achieved, you see that it was precisely to create openness and kill some of the myths that could have arisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212114647	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212114650	I think, to be honest, that there have been tax ministers in the previous government who have been using this to hang some companies a little too much. I have to admit that. The debate when it was introduced was a lot about the need to hang some companies that do not pay taxes to dry, so they pay taxes. I did not think that rhetoric was very sensible. Then there were some tax ministers later in the previous government who did not have the same rhetoric while the lists existed, but basically I think there was a negative rhetoric. I also think that some people today are using a very negative rhetoric about the country's businesses. So there are some perfectly legitimate reasons why a company does not pay tax. It can, for example, be done. It is therefore the government's policy that we must improve the framework conditions so that companies make money. They are certainly not going to make money by being hung out as those who do not contribute. I think that one of the companies that I have at least perceived has felt hung out I do not know whether they feel hung out ■ was the telecommunications company 3, which was one of the companies that had a major debate a few years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212114759	Sir. Jep Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212114803	Have there been any negative effects of the open tax lists? You could almost get that impression. On the contrary, we can see that the number of those who pay corporation tax is increasing and that, overall, more corporation tax is also being paid. It's kind of a positive story. So what is the negative?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212114828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212114830	I think the negative is that you can take these numbers, and then you can use them to hang out companies that don't pay taxes. As I said, there may be legitimate reasons for this. There are also lots of companies that do not pay corporation tax, but huge sums of tax of different kinds. I don't agree with Mr. Knox. Jeppe Bruus in that one can equate the increasing number of corporate tax payments with the fact that we have had open tax lists. I do not think there is any connection at all between the two things, and there are certainly no studies showing it, but one cannot rule out that it may have had an effect, even if one cannot document it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212114912	The next short remark is Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212114920	After all, I and Enhedslisten are very fond of the open tax lists, and I do not think I exaggerate by saying that this is one of our children, and that is something we have been very concerned about over the years. We think it is very important that attention should be paid to the fact that this is the case and has been the case that large multinational companies have been able to pay nothing or almost nothing in tax, while small and medium-sized Danish companies have had to pay taxes. This is what happens, for example. I believe that this is a situation of unequal competition, as a liberal, if we are serious about a free market and so on. etc., must think is something we have to look at. However, the Minister of Taxation is right to say that information on tax payments is, in fact, only one out of many. But then you could also go the other way and say: should we then expand this, then there for example. Did you find more information on what taxes these companies contribute to Danish society? We in the Enhedslisten will certainly take a positive view of how this could be expanded. What is the tax minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212115027	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212115030	Well, if it's something a majority in the Folketing wants to look at, I won't be dismissive of it. I think my main concern is that care should be taken not to spend a great many of the SKAT's resources doing something that does not have the great effect and will only be used to a very limited extent. However, you can imagine a number of ways of extending the open tax lists if you want to, but as a tax minister it is not something that I use energy on. I spend most of my energy solving some of the SKAT's problems and clearing up some of the problems that have accumulated over a number of years. So I do not think I will invest much effort in changing and adjusting the open tax lists, but if that is what a majority of Parliament wants, I am also open to discussing it. You have to be like a party minority government. Then I would just like to say in conclusion that I do not consider myself a liberal but a liberal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212115127	The second brief remark to Mr Beazley. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212115130	It is true that SKAT has some very major challenges at the moment. As the Minister of Taxation is also aware, it is my and Enhedslisten's clear position that the problems have mainly arisen by SKAT having been saved to pieces over the last 10 years by changing governments, and that it is also a problem that SKAT in 2016 does not actually even have the budget that SKAT had in 2015. After all, the problems encountered in 2015 are carried on in 2016 compared to the budget framework that SKAT has been working on. So we will always be very positive in looking at how we can add more resources to SKAT, because it is absolutely urgent and necessary. As I said, we would like to look at the possibility of extending these tax lists, and I would like to say why I really think they are important in a wider context. Many developing countries have problems with the fact that taxes are not being paid in these countries, so knowing that we have an open tax list, we are actually taking the lead in relation to such a country's country-based approach, where this kind of figure is just being published. And there I want to hear what the tax minister really thinks about the fact that the developing countries, with such tax lists here, can actually get a tool to better keep on the tax revenues that are currently very difficult to hold on to for the developing countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212115240	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212115243	I think there are more effective ways in which we can help developing countries to do something about their tax payments and their tax collection, and there can be a role for SKAT. I think it is this spring that I will meet with a couple of developing countries' organisations who are very concerned about SKAT and development aid, and how the Danish tax system and tax administration can contribute to it, also in relation to double taxation agreements and other things, and I will then address the question that Mr. Rune Lund mentions with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212115316	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212115322	I think it is positive that far along the way there is a great deal of agreement on what is good and bad about such a proposal here. I am told that the Minister also wants openness, but that we do not want companies to be shown on a false basis. And that is actually what we in the alternative have against the Liberal Alliance proposal. Because we can really sympathize with the desire to get rid of it, i.e. this thing about someone being exposed in an unfair way. It is practically the whole basis for us to be here, for us to ensure that things are done properly. But in our view it is a little unambitious to say that you have to close these open tax lists if the wish is actually something quite different. In other words, the wish is to ensure that no companies are shown on the wrong basis, and there I would like to follow up on the Enhedslisten's idea of whether we could do better to create greater visibility for what is actually being contributed. A simple proposal could of course be to supplement these standard figures today by allowing companies to bid in with 50 words of free text that they have simply chosen for it and for that reason, and that in 2018 they have an expectation that it will be so and so. Then there may be a debate on the basis of it, but it is actually an opportunity for companies to come out and tell a good story about what they are contributing. If we just shut them down, there's no story. So could it not be said that this is the option that we must maintain, rather than shutting down, so that fear remains?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212115444	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212115447	Yes, I would like to look at that constructively, if that is what a majority of Parliament wants. In general, I think that openness is good, but it does, of course, give a commitment to using the information you receive properly. This may also be an answer to Mr. Rune Lund, for the Enhedslisten and a prominent and otherwise skilful member of the Enhedslisten, Mr. Frank Aaen, has a website called the Multinassians, and I don't think that's the right rhetoric to use. However, if we can agree on what things are to be used for and the openness that is, moreover, respected, then I think we can consider whether we could change some things. As I said, I will look at this constructively. In December, as Minister for Taxation, I took the initiative in publishing the open tax lists to invite in some of the main contributors. It was primarily to say thank you for contributing so much to Danish society, but also to discuss with them how we can ensure that even more companies pay corporation tax and contribute to society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212115557	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212115601	But I guess it's also kind of a question of who's responsible for these numbers being used in a sensible way. It might well be something that should be given to each other that when the figures, if they are otherwise allowed to remain, lie there, there is no interest in any of the parties in doing so, that they should be threatened with being made public again simply by using them in a massive party political way. That could be some of the stuff you brought. But otherwise it's the media we're talking about here. It is also their representation of the figures that are sometimes a little heavily angled, and I do not think that should be the reason why we close the tax lists. Is it not a debate we should take with the media and with the parties here at Christiansborg on how we use the figures we are given? It can't be right that we should shut down such completely standard figures from a company that is actually just describing the reality of the company in the world in which it now lives. Surely it cannot be right that we should shut it down because we are afraid that people will abuse that knowledge. These are numbers that are available in many places. So I am thinking: could we not take on board that fear and say that, as politicians, it is our job to safeguard the nuances? And the nuances don't come by shutting it down.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212115705	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212115708	However, as I have said, this is a debate that I would like to take up constructively. It is quite true that this is information that already exists and that, if you close the open tax lists, you can go into the accounts of all companies and see what they have earned and what they have then paid in taxes. So it doesn't really make much difference. It makes it so little harder to find some of the information. I think these are some pertinent questions and ideas, as Mr. René Gade is leaving, and I would like to go constructively to them. So when it comes to controlling the media: yes, as a government, you might want to do so when you see that they do not talk about us as positively as we would like. But it can be difficult, and it may also be very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212115756	Mrs Lunderød Lundered from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212115802	Thank you. Fortunately, we have a lot of companies here in Denmark who earn good money and who also pay their taxes and thus contribute to our common welfare society. And my point of view is that they can't possibly have anything against these open tax lists. But I would really like to ask the Minister a very clear question. The minister is talking about this with negative rhetoric, and there are others who have also talked about this problem of myth formations. So I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister believes that myth formations are most likely when something is open and transparent or when something is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212115830	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212115832	I think it depends a little on what it is. I think we should be careful to set up such a general principle. Anyway, with your rhetoric you can mystify and secrete something that is not really secret and is not interesting. You can also take out something that is open with your rhetoric and then make it something else than it really is. You can take something like the Public Service Act, which we have had a long discussion about today. And the public debate on the public law, which the Social Democrats and the Left voted for, seems to me to be about all sorts of things other than what is actually in the paragraphs, because some people used a rhetoric about what we actually voted on, which I did not think was quite fair. In general, I am in favour of openness, but I am also in favour of the fact that when you are open and you put things forward, you have to be able to expect people to use that information properly. And it can only be seen that in some cases, at least in the case of the open tax lists, they have been used for something that is not fair to the companies involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212115937	Mrs. Malou Lunderød.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212115939	Thank you, and thank you for your answer. I have also noted that when we got these open tax lists, there were a number of companies that were out to comment on them, among others. McDonald, who was out saying they were really fond of them because they had actually been trying to explain for years that they actually pay taxes, but that no one really believed them. Now all the people could just go in and see it, and you were actually willing to expand it further. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether the Minister thought it was a good idea when the former tax minister chose to extend the open tax lists to show for several years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120011	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120013	Well, you can choose to do that. And again I would like to say that, in this case, I am listening to what a majority in the Danish Parliament would like. The Left had a very clear view when we were in opposition, and I am in favour of what we meant when we were in opposition, we should also think when we are in government, if that is still sensible. And so it is in this area, and that is why we can support the Liberal Alliance's proposal. But if there is no majority in favour, you can see if you can find a majority in favour of doing something else. As I said, I would like to take a constructive approach to this on the basis of such a basic view that I do not really think it is appropriate for Parliament to fight on a very large scale about individual matters. Well, then there will be a red government, and then you will do something with a very narrow majority, and then a blue government will roll it back, and then a red government will come back. As Minister for Taxation, I would like to make legislation that is long-lasting and, if you could make a long-lasting model for this, that is something that we want to go into constructively. However, we do not deviate from our basic view that we should not be able to hang companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120114	Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120117	Thank you. Basically, I do not understand what the Minister's problem is with these open tax lists and why it should be an expression of some kind of persecution of business. The minister himself mentions the company 3, which really had a bad case. But there we got to the bottom of what it was all about, and it ended up that the company was no longer hanged out. And you will be able to do that time and time again because there is openness. What is the Minister's problem with these open tax lists, and why is it that it is regarded as a form of persecution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120153	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120155	My analysis of it, if I look at what the tax lists have been used for, and what some have used them for, and I have to say that I have followed this debate, which has been about 3, and I follow the media a lot, is that I have to say that the mention that they were hung out was something bigger than the correction, when it came to the fact that it came out, among other things. It was because of the fact that there had been some total legal deduction of large investments, I think it was in telecommunications equipment. So I think there are some companies that would say that I would at least do that if I were 3 that they are a little sad about how the open tax lists were used in that case. It may of course be that they are not, but from the outside I thought it very much as if they were hanged out, and when it came out that there was actually no basis for hanging them out, it was mentioned to a somewhat lesser extent. That is what the media is, that is to say, that the corrections will never be as large as the sensational stories, and it is of course a relevant debate to take if you can do something about it. But at least we will not solve that with this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120258	Mrs. Anne Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120259	Should I understand that because of the media's inability to understand a matter in depth, we should introduce more secrecy about these tax rules for companies operating in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120315	No, I really don't want any more secrecy. Because if you want to close things, you just have a discussion about whether it is to hide something, and I basically don't think there's anything hidden. But I am going to take down the fact that these open tax lists have been used in a way that I, as a Liberal, do not think should be used and that they have been used to hang out some companies. That's my analysis of it. The social democracy's analysis may then be different. I would just like to say, if we take and look at the public law again, that there was a Social Democracy and the Left agreed that there were some things that it is fair to have access to and to which more access can be granted. But there are also some areas where it is okay that politicians can meet and discuss things without having to see it on the front page of a newspaper 3 weeks later.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120359	Mrs. Merete Riisager of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120402	Thank you. Would the Minister not agree with me that throughout this debate there is simply a lack of premise, namely the understanding that public and private are not at all the same? And would the Minister not agree with me that it is the case that when, for example, we do so? Is it because it is public authorities or organisations to which we pay tax dollars in order for them to provide some kind of service and that we who want transparency, but that transparency cannot affect the state, the municipality or the school in such a way that they go bankrupt? This cannot be done, whereas a private company is private and, if it is forced to produce data which is then used improperly against it, it may lose its business. I am simply asking for the Minister to agree with me on the premise that there is a total misunderstanding in relation to the fact that there is therefore a huge difference in whether something is public or private. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120501	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120502	Perhaps I am not so surprisingly in agreement with Mrs Merete Riisager that when it comes to the public, where the community and taxpayers pay, there is a legitimate demand for insight and publicity. And this is to a very, very large extent in Denmark. I think that, despite the debate which, for example, has taken place. has been about the Public Act, is one of the societies in the world where there is the most publicity and transparency in terms of how the public sector is connected. And there must continue to be, and it may also be that in some areas there must be more openness and more openness. But in relation to the private, it is different, and just as much as I do as an individual, privacy belongs to, what I do as a politician is, of course, legitimate to gain insight into. And it's all about finding the right cut and certainly not inviting anyone to use anything in this case the open tax lists to make an exhibition of corporate tax payments that are not legitimate and fair to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120605	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120606	Thank you. Does the Minister not also agree with me that if you only have a minimum of insight into what you can call grocery shopping, then you have to assume that when there is a company like 3, which is exposed to a hetz, which turns out to be completely unjustified, then there may well be other companies that may fear being exposed to the same hetz? And their whole strategy in terms of reputation does so that they have to use resources etc. to address such a risk. After all, as a society, we cannot be interested in exposing companies in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120647	I can follow Mrs Merete Riisager's basic view.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120655	The last of a brief remark to the Minister is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120658	Thank you. The latest changes to the open tax lists were, after all, made with the agreement back in December 2014, which I have before me, on strengthened action against tax havens. It was an agreement in which the Social Democratic Party was involved and is also very pleased, and that is because we believe that it is a great challenge when it is the case that there are companies that do not pay taxes. That is why we also want to be very active in the fight to ensure that as many companies as possible comply with the rules, because it benefits both society and welfare. So I would just like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister does not agree that the open tax lists can be a tool in the fight against tax havens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120738	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120739	I do not believe that there is any measurable effect in relation to tax havens and the open tax lists. I don't. As I said, there are no studies on whether this has increased tax payments. It cannot be ruled out that this has happened, but there is therefore no investigation into it. So no, the similarity between the two things I don't think you can see.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120809	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120810	Now the Minister is taking this up with a measurable effect. The Minister himself also mentioned this by calling in some of the companies that we, among others, have. because of the open tax lists by paying taxes, and thank you for contributing to the welfare society. We would, of course, like to have as many of them as possible, and there we have chosen to include this with open tax lists in our agreement. Now the Minister says that there is no measurable effect. But can the Minister deny that this could be an element in relation to the fact that more companies are paying the tax they are going to have to pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120848	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120849	No, I can't deny that. But I don't believe it, and I choose to act on it. The same view could also be expressed, i.e. that all Danes' tax payments should be public. We do not want to, and I do not think that is the right way to go either. I understand that many years ago the Berlingske Tidende published the 100 largest private contributors, and there was such little competition to be included in that list. Of course, you could also choose to go that way. However, I think it is best now that taxes are something private for citizens, and for companies there must be openness and openness, but we must also ensure systems that do not abuse transparency to expose companies on a false basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120934	No one else has brief comments to make to the Minister, so we thank him. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur's list, and the first is Mr Beazley's report. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212120947	Thank you. After all, it is very interesting to observe what happens when a bourgeois government comes to and the bourgeois parties of course try to take advantage of the opportunity that one then has to rule the country. So, what is it that you use that influence for? The Liberal Alliance wants to use this opportunity to limit transparency on something as basic as the payment by companies of their corporate income tax. It is some information that is publicly available in advance and I think that is actually very thought-provoking. We in the Social Democratic Party feel that companies must, of course, pay the tax, they must pay no more or less, and this applies to companies that earn their money in Denmark. I am actually confident that all parties in parliament feel the same way, so I think we share that view. That is why this is also about what myths arise about companies' tax payments in Denmark. And there have been a number of myths about companies that have not paid the tax to which they were under obligation. It is not myths that have just emerged from historical tales about fairies and trolls and all kinds of other things, but myths that are based on the fact that there have been lots of stories about companies that in one or the other more or less creative way try to bypass the fact that they have to pay their taxes. That is why the open tax lists have helped to create openness and, as such, to limit some of the myths. Has it been completely flawless? No, it may not have, but none of the legislation we are making is really there. Now we have discussed the company 3, but if you look at just the last few years, then I think the impression that remains is that this kind of helps to put down some of the myths. The fact that the company does not pay corporation tax for a single year does not necessarily mean that the company is trying creatively to avoid paying tax in one way or another. This may be entirely justified because the company can deduct and thus does not have a payment for a given year, and therefore it was also entirely appropriate, since with the agreement of December 2014 with the then government and the Danish People's Party we decided to extend the number of years where one can go back and see the open tax lists, from 1 to 5 years. For then you get the history and you get the opportunity to see that over a number of years a company pays the tax they have to pay, and thus you also get a more accurate picture of the company's corporation tax. The minister then says he's afraid that there'll be websites trying to put this together and manufacture these companies as nassers. Yes, there will certainly be, and there will be private ones taking initiatives to collect accounting information from the various companies. That is precisely the argument for having transparency about the tax lists, in other words because you then have something that is objective, lying on the Tax Ministry's website, where we can all go in to look at the tax payments that are there and therefore do not have to go into private initiatives. Fortunately for all of us, the trend is that companies have become better at paying their corporation tax. There are several companies that pay corporation tax and the total volume of what is paid in tax is actually increasing. And despite the fact that the tax rate on corporation tax has been decreasing if you look at the year 2013 to 2014, with 1⁄2%. Last year, in 2014, it ran into 56 billion. kr. After all, it's a lame one, and it's a positive story. That is a good thing, we should be pleased about that, and I fully agree with the tax minister when he says thank you to the companies that pay the tax they have to pay. One can argue against thanking someone for doing what they really have to do, in other words to comply with the law, because one can argue if it was not in fact a very natural expectation to have, including to companies. But I think it's okay to recognise someone who contributes a lot to the Treasury. And that is why the open tax lists are, of course, a good idea. It is good that we have a longer history of it, so that we do not have to judge some companies on the basis of just one financial year, and I think it is fine if we can discuss how to develop this tool, and we are happy to contribute to that. That is why, of course, we in the Socialist Group cannot support the motion for a resolution which has been tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212121456	There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Merete Riisager of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212121501	Thank you. Who does the rapporteur think should ensure that the law is observed? We all agree that the law must be observed. But is it the responsibility of the authorities to ensure that companies comply with the law, or is it the responsibility of the citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212121518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212121520	It's not that hard to answer. It is, of course, the responsibility of the authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212121524	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212121526	Is it not true, however, that when these company tax lists were created, it was precisely for the purpose of involving citizens as such, a kind of popular court, which could then create press publicity and reputational pressure, one might say, in order to morally pressure companies to pay corporation tax? That is why I am asking, because the whole set-up for corporate tax lists is, after all, to use such a civil court instead of giving the authorities responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212121604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212121605	I do not think that is correct. If you now go through it and look at the presentation of it at that time, you can see that that was not the argument. The argument was actually to create openness about this, put down some of the myths and make sure that everyone can go in and see what it is for some tax payments that lie. But that does not mean that all Danish citizens should go in and judge. The argument was precisely not to create a public gap, as the bourgeois people are trying to argue, but precisely the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212121636	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212121639	Now this is gonna be a bit of a debate about either having open tax lists or not having open tax lists. And I have to say that the government does not have a majority in favour of abolishing tax lists. Will the Socialists be prepared to enter into a discussion on the drawing up of the tax lists we have today, so that some of the inappropriateities that exist could be eliminated? In other words, for example, the tax lists do not show how much the company together contributes to tax payments via employees, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212121715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212121717	Yes, if we can make them better, of course we contribute to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212121719	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212121721	That sounds good.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212121726	The rapporteur. There's nothing else. No one else has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series is the Danish People's Party. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212121736	This proposal, as has been mentioned by the other rapporteurs, is of course about the fact that SKAT has to publish an open tax list every year telling about what companies have paid in corporation tax. The Liberal Alliance then proposes that you remove from the Treasury website and that you no longer have to publish these lists in the future. The argument in the motion for a resolution is that you can see a number of problems because the information may be misleading. I agree that they may be, because there may be good reasons why a company does not pay corporation tax for a single year or two. Among other things, it can be done. We would like companies to have large investments in Denmark or it may be that they have a transferred deficit because they have had large research costs. Nor does the list tell about what a company contributes in relation to taxes or how many employees it has. That was also the reason why we voted against introducing the list back in 2012. Subsequently, it has happened that we have entered into two agreements where this is part of it. The first time was in 2013, when we had an agreement on the taxation of oil in the North Sea, i.e. what was used to finance the Togfonden DK, and where a small part of it was adjusted, compared to how to get hydrocarbon-taxed companies shown in it. Later in 2014, as far as I remember in December, we were also included in an agreement on tax havens, an agreement that, incidentally, we are pleased to be included in, where it was also included as a component, and where it was actually corrected a little by the fact that it could give a wrong picture, because it was extended to be 5 years for which it had to be shown. There are still a number of shortcomings in it, but we stand by the agreement we made in 2014, so we can therefore say that we cannot support the proposal on this basis. I would also like to say that I do not think there are a lot of people sitting here checking these lists on the Tax Ministry's website, and we see it as a rather small matter, also in the light of the fact that you can actually get the same information elsewhere. So if you choose to do away with it from the Tax Ministry's website, you can go to other websites and find it there. For example, I have. even used a website called proff.dk, where you actually get more information than you do on the Tax Ministry's website, and also can see who sits on the board, management and other things. So even if you removed the list, that information would still be available. So in the Danish People's Party we stand by the agreements we have made, and we will then instead choose to look forward and look forward positively to whether you might as it has already been part of the debate can do this better somehow or get a slightly more accurate picture. I would also like to mention that we are in fact doing this exercise here in the Danish Parliament, because a few weeks ago we adopted a bill which had this country for country reporting in it, which is precisely an opportunity to make it more transparent as to what the companies are contributing, and thus perhaps also across countries can see whether it is possible to avoid aggressive tax planning. So we want to take a positive step in the work of the committee in order to see if we can do this more fairly, but I would say that we cannot support the specific motion for a resolution because we stand by the agreements we reached in December 2014.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212122113	Two have asked for brief comments. First, it's Mrs Merete Riisager, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212122116	Thank you. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær says that these lists are no longer of great importance. Then you'd think we might as well remove them. After all, there is something fine and proper about the fact that when a bourgeois government takes over after a red, we are making sure that the anti-business measures that may have been adopted under a red government are cleared up. The rapporteur has also said in the past that DF does not feel bound by the agreement reached on company tax lists. Hans Kristian Skibby from Dansk Folkeparti also. After all, there are two sensible people who say sensible things. What has changed since then?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212122208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212122209	The rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance says that it is fine and proper to roll everything back from a previous government. I now think it is more fine and proper that you as a party should stand by the agreements you have made. It's one of the good rules of the game we have in here in the Folketing. I just have to say that although we can see that there may be some problems in the way in which the tax lists are dealt with I mentioned that it may be misleading, I actually think it is even more important that you stand by the things you are in. And the reason we agreed to that agreement was that we thought there were a lot of fine initiatives in the tax havens package that we did not think should be overshadowed by the fact that we had these open tax lists, which we actually see as a small thing. So we would actually rather stand by the agreements that we have entered into instead of saying that it should only be fine and proper and then just sort of in principle roll things back.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212122252	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212122253	So in the Danish People's Party the tax lists are regarded as such a small thing. Does this mean that if you are now presented with another package, where the abolition of the company tax lists is part of this interesting package, you will again see it as a small thing and thus say that you are joining the majority and abolishing the company tax lists?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212122316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212122317	Yes, I'd like to confirm that. And, as I heard the Social Democrats and, in fact, the tax minister, they said, if you can find a way to do this more fairly, you will look at it very constructively. I also mentioned that in my rapporteur's speech, that is to say, if we can find a good model where we still have openness, but where we can at the same time hit it in so that it becomes more true, then we will actually be willing to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212122339	Sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212122342	Thank you. The bourgeois, i.e. the liberals, for now the DF also belongs to the bourgeois wing, says that the open tax lists here are business-enemy. I assume that the Danish People's Party agrees with the rest of us that the open tax lists are not industrially hostile. That's one. The second is that I agree, in a way, that everything we can do better must of course be done better. But what I understand from the rapporteur, which I assume is that even if you try to reach a new agreement or try to improve it here, the Danish People's Party does not help to make less transparency about the tax lists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212122425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212122427	No, I agree that they are not in themselves in this way anti-professional, but they may be in the storytelling that they are used for. Well, I don't think it's a good way that Enhedslisten has used them by talking about the multinasses. I am actually more at the point of being able to use them positively to show that there are actually very many companies that contribute very well. I do not think it is anti-business that that information is already available in the company's accounting information. And in fact, as I said, you can also go to other websites and see the figures in this regard. So even if you removed this list, the information would still be available. Therefore, it can also be difficult to say why they should be abolished, because you can find the data elsewhere. However, compared to the latter, we are actually positive about it if you can do it more fairly, as we did in 2014 by extending it from 1 to 5 years. If you can expand it or frame it in another way, then we are willing to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212122521	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212122522	Then I think we have a common cause that we can always work together on. Well, just to be absolutely sure, I'm gonna ask you something. Mrs Merete Riisager asked whether the Danish People's Party would be able to vote in favour of it if another agreement were to be concluded, which shows that the open tax lists could be abolished, and that is where I heard the rapporteur say 'yes'. So just to be fully aware of the position: Does not the Danish People's Party participate in an agreement with the bourgeois government or the other bourgeois parties, which states that transparency about tax lists is abolished?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212122553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212122554	I cannot deny that at some point in the future we are going to do so. But this is, after all, an agreement that is relatively new. It is a tax havens agreement from December 2014, and politically I think it is quite a short time. However, I cannot deny that an agreement will be reached in 2020. After all, it is not a settlement but an agreement that has been reached. So you're not in that sense bound by it forever, that is, until you cancel it before an election. But it is not just to the right that there should be some agreement in the near future that says that this is being completely abolished. But that is also true at Christiansborg: when it comes to agreements, it is not necessarily binding for 20 or 30 years. But it is not the Danish People's Party that wants to take part in it right in the short run.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212122630	Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212122633	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Dennis Flydtkjær can confirm that the Danish People's Party supports the agreement reached. We are, of course, very pleased with this in the Enhedslisten. In fact, I would also like to comment on the point of exhibiting the lack of tax payments by certain companies. There are some who say that it is not enough in itself only to see what the tax payment is and that there is much more information. To that extent, I agree, according to the comments I made to the tax minister, and I would like to sign for it, and I think we should look at how we can develop these tax lists and make them more accurate. But even with the figure, which only deals with tax payments, you can see some things. It is noteworthy that there are companies that have been in Denmark for years and made a lot of money, but who have never, ever paid as much as a single penny in taxes. It has to be said that the actual information on the tax payment is an information which in itself can provide information in that case. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212122736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212122738	It is clear that one may wonder a lot if a company has been operating for 20 years and has not paid tax and may have made losses. Then you should think it's hard to run that company unless they keep expanding the share capital and making people spit in the box. So, yes, it can give you a picture. But that doesn't change the fact that when you have a reasonable short track, which you have previously had, where it was for a 1-year period, it gives a strongly misleading picture, because there may be good reasons for it. It may be high depreciation, it may be high development costs, and it may just be the business cycle that makes you not make money in one year. That's actually the picture I want to get away from. You use it very negatively. A good example mentioned by the Minister is the telecommunications company 3, which has invested a great deal of money in infrastructure in Denmark, which we are delighted with. I do not think it is fair for them to be hanged out for not paying taxes in one year, when there may be a very good reason for this. As I have said, we would very much like companies to invest and we would like to look at how to make it more accurate in one way or another, so that we can get the right picture. As Enhedslisten points out, I agree that if there are companies that do not pay taxes for a period of perhaps 20 years, then it does not look quite right.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212122843	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212122847	Could a way of extending these tax lists or making them more accurate, for example. to extend the years for which information on tax payments is to be provided, from 5 to e.g. Ten years? Would that be something like the Danish People's Party, for example. Would you be interested in discussing the committee procedure?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212122911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212122912	Not at this time. Now we have just extended it to 5 years, and it actually comes into force only in 2017, as far as I remember. I think you should look first at the experience you get from it, but something that might be interesting would, for example. to look at the distinction between large and small companies. As Enhedslisten also asked about earlier, I don't think this is a challenge for the little carpenter master or the small car dealer. Often the challenge lies with the very large multinational companies, which have some other tools to move between countries. Perhaps one could look at the need for greater openness in the large companies, while the demarcation should go with the small companies, which perhaps should not have this bureaucratic thing. For there is also a limit to how much bureaucracy you want to impose on companies after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212122952	Mrs Malou Lundered from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212122954	Thank you. I would also like to sign to make it quite clear that, of course, the rapporteur's party maintains the agreements that have been reached. And I would also like to acknowledge that I can listen to the rapporteur, which I think there is broad agreement on here, that of course it should not be this public mouthpiece, and that it is not the idea of the open tax lists either. Then I just want to clarify one thing. The rapporteur continues to point out that one is willing to look at making it more accurate. Should I then understand that it should be more right-wing but still open? Or should it be understood that it should be fair and perhaps a little more closed than it is today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212123036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212123038	No, the starting point is that we have the agreement where there are open tax lists, and we stand by that. However, as I mentioned, there may be some problematic situations where it can give a wrong picture, in other words, where some journalists or media can choose to hang a company on the wrong basis. I would like to take part in looking at whether you can somehow correct it so that you get a different picture of it, and maybe try to change the story so that you don't use it to make it, for example. Multinassers. However, we stand fully by the agreement we made in 2014, so the goal is not to walk away from the need for transparency in this area. I hope that is a good answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212123111	Mrs. Malou Wonderful.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212123113	Thank you. I hear it at least as if the rapporteur confirms that we should not move away from the fact that there is still openness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212123119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212123121	There wasn't much question in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212123129	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left. Sir. Jørgensen, if you have time to get on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212123142	Sir. Engelbrecht needs to be thanked for taking me away from the bad company I was in so I can make my speech. See, the previous government introduced the open tax lists. That was when the government still consisted of three parties, and one of the many tax ministers that the government managed to produce, namely the tax minister Thor Møger Pedersen, said when the tax lists were introduced, the following: that is a new angle of things. What is, in fact, a fundamental intention is to create openness, ensure transparency, contribute to the myths being put to death and, moreover, provide a positive motivating tool for companies to pay the tax they have to pay. To break with the tradition of confidentiality about corporate tax payments, yes, that is a very new angle. I must agree entirely with the former Minister for Taxation. But then I do not agree with so much more. In fact, in the Left, we would like to help put down myths, also very much on corporate tax payments. The problem is that the open tax cuts contribute precisely to misconceptions and myths about companies that paralyze Danish society. The lists show only a tiny bit of reality. If a company has been in deficit, yes, it will naturally have a lower tax payment than the company that earns a lot of money. So we cannot say so much about a company's social contribution on the basis of its tax payment alone. The position of the left cannot be taken by surprise. Already during the examination of the bill on the open tax lists, the then tax rapporteur Torsten Schack Pedersen announced that Mr. Perhaps the question could then be asked: why has the Minister of Taxation not immediately taken the bull by the horns and proposed that we have the lists abolished, rather than that it is now the Liberal Alliance that is standing here and tabling a resolution on the same matter? The answer is simple: unfortunately, there is no majority in favour of abolition because, as we have just heard from the Danish People's Party, the party does not support it, and therefore there is no majority in favour of abolishing the open tax lists. I regret that, although I understand Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær's agreement with an agreement that has been reached, although I really believe that the speech I have made on Mr Van den Broek's speech. Dennis Flydtkjær's website with the title "The open tax lists are somewhat ideologically poor and where Mr. Holger K. Nielsen is referred to as an old Marxist, it was, as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær would rather have given today than the speech he made but leave it alone. So, on behalf of the Left, I would like to say that we are voting in favour of the proposal to abolish the open tax lists, and I welcome the Conservative People's Party, which is unable to be present today, and say that the Conservative People's Party also supports the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212123441	There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212123445	If this is the case, a company has been operating for years in Denmark, for example. Q8, where you can tank gasoline, and as we all know and who during all the years they have operated in Denmark and sold lots of gasoline and diesel, has paid 0 DKK. in tax, is it not a situation in which information on tax payments alone provides substantial information to citizens, politicians, interest groups and NGOs?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212123528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212123529	In fact, it is first and foremost an information to the Folketing and the government, which has that information anyway. They can use it to go in and see if we have screwed up our system inappropriately when it is possible that you can operate for so many years without paying tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212123550	Sir. Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212123551	I am in favour of extending the tax lists with more information. As I said, I and Enhedslisten are in favour of this. But I think that when I get in my car, because I also have a car, and I have to tank gas, I'm actually trying to avoid the companies that I can see for years have paid 0 kroner. Baby. I'd rather drive in and tank gas where I know that taxes are also paid when I refuel. Did Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen... Jan E. Jørgensen thinking gas on his car?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212123623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212123624	Now, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen not a car because he cares about the environment, CO2 So I don't refuel on my own car since I don't have one. So, no, I'm not thinking about that. And I guess I wouldn't do that anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212123645	Sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212123647	When we last worked on these open tax lists, it was, of course, in connection with the fact that we had a greater effort against tax havens, and it is clear that there is something about openness and information, and today it is also being dealt with in the Council with the attitude of the government, which is trying to create more transparency about large companies' tax payments, not understood as public openness, but openness, so that the authorities can also exchange information. The trend is, of course, that it goes against greater openness, precisely because we can see that there is a problem. There is, of course, the problem that people in large companies are moving their tax payments around to avoid paying taxes, which means that we can make some rules from a political point of view and that people are then trying to avoid them. That's one of them. That is why it is a good idea to have openness about this. Is it not the position of the Left that it is beneficial to step up efforts against tax havens and thus also to increase efforts on transparency?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212123752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212123754	Yes to the first, and no to the last. In other words, there are quite different basic issues, which are more important to look at, rather than leaving it up to the political consumer to keep an eye on these tax lists and then to buy in, whether it is gasoline, burgers or whatever it is where it is believed that the company pays the most in taxes. I do not know how many consumers will be affected by this. I think most people buy the gas where it's cheapest and the burgers where they're best.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212123830	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212123832	But I myself replied to a question from Mrs Merete Riisager about who is actually responsible for control, and that is, of course, the state. However, we can see that the open tax lists have at least been part of the situation we are now facing, where more companies pay corporation tax and where the amount of money paid is increasing. Well, I guess that's a good story, and we should probably be proud and happy that the companies in Denmark have contributed 56 billion. kr. Last year. Is it not good to have openness about that story and to create the good story, which hopefully can also positively motivate more companies to pay more in corporation tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212123921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212123922	I very much doubt that there are quite a lot of companies thinking that now we should pay a few billions of tax, which we are not really obliged to pay, because then we will be on a list, and then people will see that we are good taxpayers, and then we will probably have more customers in the store. So I do not believe that this is the case and, as has been said many times before, the tax lists at least in the present form contribute to confusion. Let us say, for example: have invested in machinery and new technology, etc. Then, of course, one does not get the big profit in that year, and that also means that one's tax payment is limited, and it may even be non-existent. But does this mean that it is a company that does not contribute to the community fund? I don't think you can say that. On the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212124020	The next brief remark is Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212124026	I believe that it is a fact that the focus that has been on corporate tax payments, both the focus that we from Enhedslisten created by making these lists even with the work it required, and the focus that has come since, have contributed to the start of a number of companies that have never paid taxes in Denmark before. We know that publicity and pr mean a great deal to companies, CSR in relation to the environment, but also to tax payments. I'm surprised that the government is so eager or that the Left is so eager to get this area darkened. The rapporteur then says that this creates confusion. Yes, but if we don't have these open tax lists, then what you can go to is looking at companies' annual accounts and tax payments there. There you can see some of these companies are paying taxes. The problem is that you cannot see where they pay the tax, and that means that it may appear that a large Danish company pays a lot of tax, the tax is just put in Luxembourg or another tax haven instead of in Denmark. The citizens cannot see that. Why is it that the rapporteur of the Left wants to deprive the Danes of the opportunity to look at this so that they can make the kind of informed choices that Mr. Rune Lund pointed out as a political consumer?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212124140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212124142	I was hoping that there would be another confession from the Enhedslisten about incorrect political spending, but it was not in this instance. Enhedslisten believes that something is a fact. I have not seen studies demonstrating that open tax lists in themselves lead to increased tax payments. However, I note that there is no majority in the Parliamentary Assembly in favour of abolishing the tax lists, and then I think we should try to see if, as a result of the failure to abolish them, we can start negotiations to improve them so that we can have a more accurate picture.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212124227	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212124229	It is very good that the rapporteur recognises the state of affairs here in the Danish Parliament, and I think it is very, very positive that the Danish People's Party is so firm in the agreements that have been reached. But now we are talking more about the attitude behind it. The rapporteur calls it a gaping stick. What about the smiley scheme for restaurants and food businesses? Here you also tell and even publish in the window if a business does not live up to what you can expect it to do. Should we abolish it too? Or is it not reasonable that Danish citizens who pay taxes themselves, small traders who pay their corporation tax, should be able to check whether the big mastodons are cheating?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212124311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212124313	I think that's a strange comparison. An acid smiley gets you if you haven't lived up to some rules. The companies we are talking about here comply with the Danish rules. They live up to paying the tax they have to pay under the law. And when Enhedslisten equates low tax payments with cheating, it borders on libel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212124336	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212124340	I would actually like to start the debate on what we really want consumers to think about. Because I also recognise that it seems that we are keeping the open tax lists, and it seems that the rapporteur from the Left also wants to do as well as possible and improve what is now in place, now that the parliamentary basis makes it impossible for us to open them up. I am thinking that this is actually an interesting discussion, i.e. if it is not okay, even if we safeguard the interests of private companies in Denmark. I myself am from the entrepreneurial and advertising industry, and I am used to making PR stories on something like this, that is to say, that you have done something good, or if some people are afraid that something bad has happened, then you hurry to report it out before the figures are published. So I'm actually just going to follow up on this dialogue and say that let's try to get it done better, also with the Left. But should we not give the public insight, including those who do not read the newspapers in which it is just mentioned, those who do not actively follow the debates in here? I must confess that I was not very keen on the tax debates until I arrived in the Folketing, nor on how much individual companies paid in taxes. I had some ideas about what I'd like to pay for. Isn't it good to have that debate? Then I am aware that, like when photos come from in here, you get a very, very small part of the political perspective, but you can follow it after all. Should we not give citizens the opportunity to make political choices, to make choices that are consistent with their convictions when they act? If you just walk around in the city picture and see the advertising banners that I myself have been involved in doing, it is hard to assess whether it is a company you want to buy something from. Then it's just those who have the most money that can flash the most.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212124509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212124511	You can't keep selling a bad product, even if you have good ads. I think we can agree on that. I probably do not share that very much confidence in the super-enlightened consumer who goes in advance when buying petrol or whatever it may be, checking open tax lists and finding out how to compare and so on. I'm not. I also think that much of the debate that has taken place shows that it has not taken place on a very thorough and objective basis. For example, there is the whole debate on the telecommunications company 3. What they were subjected to was not reasonable, and that was not a proper and fair and objective debate. Not least on social media, then, such debates often run completely off the rails. In other words, we can do things better so that we can have a better basis for decision-making, and so that we can also give the newspapers and others who go ahead with these stories a more complete picture, in recognition that we cannot get rid of the tax lists, then perhaps that is the way we should try to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212124622	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212124624	I would just like to summarise that I agree that we cannot go out and expect consumers to know exactly what they are going in and buying and have a completely enlightened basis to do so. That is not the intention either. I'm thinking that as well as we can get there now, it's interesting. And then I very much disagree that you cannot continue to sell a very, very bad product if you are good enough to market it. At any rate, I have seen many times in the advertising industry that this is so possible, and so I would actually like it to be said that we should try to see whether we cannot avoid it and if we could not give the citizens the best opportunity to make sensible choices that are appropriate to what they would like to have. When we see companies that pay 0 kr. in tax, it may be because investments are being made by their parent company or because a price different from that which may be the real one is being paid. That could be good enough. I just think it's good to have openness about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212124711	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212124712	Well, debate is always fine, and then I should like to remind the rapporteur that there may be a day after this, when you no longer sit in the Folketing, but have to go back to the old industry. So it might be that you should try to keep some of your clients by then.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212124731	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's line is Mr Enhedslisten's. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212124752	Thank you. It is not surprising that the Enhedslisten does not support this motion for a resolution. The open tax lists are, of course, one of our heart children, and it is also one of the victories that we have managed to get through under the former S-led government, and, just as we have pointed this out, on today's occasion, when the Liberal Alliance has tabled this motion for a resolution, we have produced a small video in which I and Mr. Frank Aaen is discussing this subject, and you can look at it, for example. Enhedslisten's Facebook and on my own profile on Facebook. The tax lists are good. They provide citizens, politicians and interest groups, etc. openness and transparency so that we can see what is being paid in tax. I think it is a perfectly reasonable requirement for consumers or politicians, for example. can see what is being paid in tax; if someone does not pay tax and if someone does not pay tax at all. It can also be seen that there are a number of companies, a number of multinational companies, which previously did not pay taxes in Denmark, which have actually begun to pay taxes. It has to be said that open tax lists all other things equally must have an impact here in order to prevent or minimise and reduce the very aggressive tax thinking which is obviously taking place around here. Of course, it is not only the open tax lists that contribute to this. The public debate, which has been about corporate tax payments, has of course also been of great importance, for example. Is it true that a company like McDonald's, which for many years has been a target for this because for many years they didn't pay taxes, actually started paying taxes before these tax lists were created? So it is a sign that the public debate on the lack of tax payments by these companies is also in itself helping large companies to make a little contribution to the Community. We fully agree with the Liberal Alliance that we do not get the full picture of looking at a company's tax payment, which is why it is also important to say two things to it: firstly, it is important that the tax lists not only cover one year at a time but cover a number of years. We would very much like to look at whether the years agreed now, which are five years old, can be extended to a longer period of time. Everything else just will give a better picture and more information, but we would also very much like to take a look at how to develop it here with other information that might be relevant and give a more complete picture. We think that can only improve these tax lists. So if the argument is that one is against, i.e. that corporation tax does not say enough, then it would be nice if the Liberal Alliance, when the Liberal Alliance then cannot get a majority for this motion for a resolution, would perhaps be involved in a process in which one can look at what information might otherwise be available on the SKAT website. We in the Enhedslisten would very much like to discuss this with the Liberal Alliance. In this context, I would like to say that it is a little paradoxical that a party such as the Liberal Alliance is opposed to the openness of these tax concessions, especially if they are to be extended. After all, it is the small and medium-sized Danish companies that pay their taxes that are in an unequal competitive relationship with some of the companies that can juggle around with aggressive tax thinking and avoid paying taxes. So if you are a liberalist, and I know Mrs Merete Riisager is that, then perhaps it was an idea to go into this positively and say: we actually have the opportunity to point out that there are some companies operating under unequal conditions of competition, because they are doing aggressive tax thinking, and in this sense and in this context, it is very good that you have a tool, a tool such as the open tax lists, which, like that, can point this out. to consumers. The tax lists are also important for another reason, namely that if we did not have the tax lists, the tax payments made by companies paying taxes in Denmark would not be publicly available. Then you would only have tax figures from the company's annual accounts, and the tax payment that appears in an annual accounts is only the tax payment that the company pays worldwide. And if it is now a small or medium-sized Danish company that has the largest part of its activity in Denmark, there will be consistency between what is stated in the financial statements and what you can see on SKAT's open tax list. But if so, for example... If there is a multinational group, there will be a difference here. You can take many examples, but now I take A.P. Møller-Mærsk's accounts, and if you go in and look into their accounts for 2013, you will see in their financial statements that they have paid 18.2 billion. kr. Baby. But if you are in favour of the same year in the open tax lists that you can use the SKAT website and see what they have paid in tax in Denmark, it does not say 18.2 billion. kr., that's 60.7 million. kr. Well, that's a relevant piece of information. As the annual accounts of the companies do not provide this country with country information, it is of course important to have an open tax list in addition to the financial statements. That fg. President. - The debate is closed. ) The rapporteur has finished because the rapporteur has no more time to speak in.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212125341	Thank you. One person has asked for a brief comment. This is Mrs. Merete Riisager, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212125348	First of all, I should like to make a comment. Sir. Rune Lund calls me a liberal. He says he knows I am. Then I can only say that the rapporteur does not know very much about me because I am a liberal. I could also say about Mr. Rune Lund, I know he's a communist. It is my experience of things, but it is not certain that he himself identifies himself in that way. But let it go. What we are discussing today are company tax lists. Are we gonna have them or aren't we gonna have them? We do not believe in the Liberal Alliance that they serve any purpose whatsoever. In the Enhedslisten, the view is that the company tax lists should be used because, as a political consumer, we must be able to relate to them. I think that is actually a very clear way to go about it. It was a little more muddled when the Socialists had to explain what the lists were for. But how do you do it? So, how do you act as the perfect political consumer? Sir. Rune Lund himself stated that he has a car, and when he drives around and has to tank gas, he's just considering: Does this company pay corporation tax or not? But there must also be other things to consider when driving around there as a political consumer. Do you even have to drive a car? Like other Unity List members, should you drive a public transport vehicle? Is there anything else? Is there child labour in connection with a product? How are you the perfectly enlightened consumer who saves the world in this way by his own choices? How do you do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212125511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212125513	I will not call Mrs Merete Riisager a liberal if she feels that she is not a liberal but a liberal. I have to say that I myself, in fact, feel like a liberal, but of a different caliber than the Liberal Alliance questioner. I would say that in the Enhedslisten we have never had any illusions that the political consumer could, what to say, fix it all. But we take the view that if you can create consumer information, if you can give people the opportunity to make an informed choice, then we think it is a very good idea. And consumers, in line with politicians, interest groups and NGOs, can make use of these tax lists. And if you like... Having a number of children, it may be a good idea to have a car, and when you drive around in that car, it is also very nice to know who it is of the gasoline companies that pay taxes and who it is who does not pay taxes. As far as I am concerned, I can say that it matters to me where I go and refuel gas. It is clear that if the idea is going completely empty, you have to take what you can get, but if you have the option of choosing, you can go where you know tax is paid to the community, so that there is money for welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212125622	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212125623	Thank you. Well, it can be hard to be a father to babies. It is a bit like being a mother toddlers; there are a lot of things to be done, and there are many things to be taken into account and you also need to have analyses of corporate ethical profiles while driving around there and shopping in and thinking about gasoline. So there's enough to do. Could one consider the situation that perhaps it was the authorities, as the Social Democratic rapporteur also agreed with me, who were responsible for the companies' compliance with the law, i.e. that it is simply not Mr. Rune Lund, when he drives around and has so much else to think about to make sure companies pay the tax they have to pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212125706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212125708	Well, legislation is very important here, and if the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslist could agree on an initiative where we close a lot of tax holes and take a lot of initiatives that prevent aggressive tax thinking, then I would say that we will be very open to it. I believe that the Enhedslisten must find its political alliance partners elsewhere than at the Liberal Alliance, but we are very aware of the importance of the legislation, and Enhedslisten's doors will always be open to anyone who wants a dialogue with Enhedslisten on how we can reduce aggressive tax thinking and how we can close tax holes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212125746	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. René Gade from the Alternative. René Gade from the Alternative. Merete Riisager Sorry). It does not matter; it is good that we have rapporteurs who are ready to jump on the platform. Here you go, sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212125807	Yeah, that surprised me, too. Just for a second, I thought the alternative had grown bigger than the Liberal Alliance, but I think it's only in the dreams. We have had a very good debate today, I think. I'm here too rarely on Fridays, I can feel it all. I think there's a good mood and a lot of smiles. It may also be because you have an idea where this tips off and that there may remain open tax lists. And that's why there's actually a very, very great willingness to listen to how we can now move on and get this improved. That's very happy, I think. That is why I do not want to add so much new to saying that it is simply a basic view of the alternative when we go out and say that we want to have open tax lists. We would like to have open tax lists because we simply believe that there is too much information that is not available to citizens in a way that allows citizens to get hold of them and take an interest in them, unless we help them a little. The information we are talking about here is of course available to those who want to find it and those who will spend time finding it. But it is a little hasty for many people to dust their way through an accounting, and that is not necessarily what you spend your time on. And since, in the alternative, we would like to encourage people to think about how we use our resources, we also find it interesting to know how the companies we deal with use their resources and what they are building on. We're not gonna solve that with open tax lists. I'm completely open about that. There is, as it is today, too little information to give you a true picture, but it is a step on the way. As I hear from almost every party, we are all interested in getting something done so that we at least avoid companies being shown in a way that is not appropriate. In other words, if there are companies on display because they do not pay taxes for a year, then it is essential to find out why they do not pay taxes. Is there a good reason for that? It could be investment, and it could also be because one buys goods from a parent company and pays a different price than the one that might actually be the market price, and therefore ends up not really earning any money, or because one pays interest on a loan to perhaps a parent company that is a little higher than they might actually be, so one can end up in a zero here in Denmark. There may be many reasons, but it is important, at least for the alternative, that we help the companies on these tax lists. If there's something that might surprise and give newspapers or politicians the urge to tell you about this number as something quite horrible or as something that has to be so distanced from, then we have to help each other to make it possible for these numbers to be better understood. One thing we should not do is to remove the figures or shut down transparency. Because it is not everywhere in the world that you can trust the authorities as much as you can in Denmark. So when I hear from the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur that it is not really the duty of the individual citizen to drive around and check what is the right purchase for oneself, I think that we should at least not put it in the hands of multinational companies to operate in a way here in Denmark that does not correspond to the values we would like to have. So if there are some companies acting in a way here in Denmark that do not match the values that we in Denmark would like to have one comply with, then I think it is actually our duty as authorities, but also as citizens, to respond to it. You can then assess what comes first: the chicken or the egg, the authorities or the citizens. And there I think it's a start to drive around in your car and look for where you'd like to tank gas so it fits your own values. The fact that it is almost impossible to figure out is because it's so hard to figure out these numbers and what kind of companies you're dealing with. It is as it is in a globalised world, and we should not change that, but we should try to use our tax system and our regulatory apparatus to motivate consumers to understand what they are buying and consuming. There we are thinking that the open tax lists are a good way to encourage curiosity in curiosity, as to what this company, which is just around the corner, is growing and growing and opening up new branches, is actually spending their profits on. Is it precisely to create new jobs? Is it for a skilled entrepreneur to get more and more money in the bank account, and then when he becomes a couple and sixty, he finds out: Stop it, what a world that opens up when I start thinking a little more about other people, and maybe I should do something with this money that benefits somewhere else than in the funds that I invest in, or maybe in the new entrepreneurial projects that I invest in, we can also channel the money somewhere else where it might benefit the majority. What I am saying here about entrepreneurs' motivation to do business is almost conspiracy thoughts, but we have to acknowledge that when we drive around Denmark and shop in companies, we cannot expect them to live up to the values that we want you to live up to here in Denmark. That is why it is a good start with open tax lists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212130314	No one has asked for brief comments to the rapporteur, so we thank the rapporteur. As there is no rapporteur present for the Radical Left, the SF and the Conservative People's Party, we move on to the rapporteur for the proposers. This is Mrs Merete Riisager of the Liberal Alliance. For the sake of good order, I must say that it may well be that the rapporteur comes to the end; on the other hand, the rapporteur has 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212130337	That's great. That's very classy. Thank you. In Denmark, we need a better business and investment climate. We need this because a good investment climate is an investment in the future. Denmark must be the garden in which others dream of letting their crops grow. A good business and investment climate means a larger private sector, more exciting jobs for young people, more prosperity and more opportunities for citizens to do what they want in their lives. Instead of seeing companies as necessary evils, we must show respect for people who take risks, create jobs for others and pay taxes to hospitals, roads and schools. The company tax lists invented by the previous government are a suspicion of companies. They explicitly aim to hang out companies in order not to pay corporation tax. The basic premise is that companies that do not pay corporation tax are likely to cheat. The lists were to be used to cause indignation and torment that could affect companies on their reputation. But the whole manoeuvre does not take into account the fact that there can be many, entirely legitimate and legitimate reasons why companies do not pay corporation tax in Denmark. Maybe you don't have a surplus, maybe you're investing. The company tax lists create an hostile climate around the companies, whether they comply with the law or not, because that is what is at issue here. Companies must comply with the law, and it is up to the authorities to get companies to comply with the law, not with citizens' responsibilities. A good business and investment climate in Denmark will not only be achieved by abolishing company tax lists. We should also reduce corporate tax. We have proposed that it be reduced to 121⁄2%. We must do this for ourselves and not just for the sake of businesses. It is time to put an end to the suspicion that has influenced the political debate and the great reluctance to bring down the costs of companies, because in a global market companies move to where it is profitable to create a business. They may be here or somewhere else it is the framework conditions that determine it. The ideas of the Left that companies should pay the highest possible tax for moral reasons are at best naive. The world doesn't work that way. It is not the case that business owners do not own morals, but companies that do not earn money or that cannot develop and grow are being wound up again. Therefore, we must create the best possible conditions for enterprising people who want to invest in a company in Denmark and demand that they comply with the law. Of course. A blue government must start at all times to clean up any business-distorting measures that may have been introduced by red governments. Then we can start thinking visionally and create a tax climate that is attractive to companies and therefore also to Denmark. The company tax lists are a stone in the shoe, and when we have not yet removed it, it is mainly due to the fact that Dansk Folkeparti has entered into an agreement with the red parties, and the company tax lists form part of it. The Danish People's Party is constantly moving between a bourgeois, business-friendly profile that focuses on growth and prosperity, and a more socialist approach that focuses on cheating, rule tyranny and the collection of tax dollars regardless of the consequences. I would like to call on the Danish People's Party and the rapporteur, who is a sensible and thoughtful person, to find the way out of the agreement that has been reached so that we can put this harmful business action behind us and start planning how companies can get better conditions and contribute to growth and prosperity in Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212130708	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are three who have asked for brief comments, and the first is Mr. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212130714	I am thinking that the Danish company owners are being counted down a little in this speech by the rapporteur. Because there are a lot of people who really like these tax lists. Even before the tax lists started, where Enhedslisten had to publish similar tax lists to the best of my ability, I was contacted by a trader down from Strøget. I don't want to mention the fire, but it was one of the major foreign brands. I was then an advisor to Mr. Frank Aaen, and he wanted to sponsor a suit for Mr. Frank Aaen, for he was simply as fond of the work as Mr. Frank Aaen did. For he paid himself with pleasure his corporation tax and the other taxes that were, and he was tired of experiencing that some of the really big companies, who earn a lot of money and who have a huge turnover in Denmark, paid 0 DKK. Year after year, because with an army of lawyers and others they could do what they call creative tax planning, i.e. through transfer pricing move their tax payments to countries with lower taxes, and thus avoid contributing to the society on which they are lurking. I think it is great that there are people who create businesses, but we must remember that they are doing so on the back of a society where there is an infrastructure where there is education and everything else that taxes contribute to paying. So isn't this a little bit to be a spokesperson for some companies, many of which might actually think this is a really good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212130837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212130839	I will not say at all that I can make myself a spokesperson for companies, but I would venture to claim that I have worked for quite a few more Danish companies than Mr. Pelle Dragsted, and it is the case that Danish companies rarely go out and complain. They will very rarely go out and complain about anything, among other things. because they do not want to appear as whiners, nor do they want to harm their own brand, but when you do tasks for them, you can ask them calmly how they really feel about this, and there I would venture to claim that very many companies do not want to be hanged out for something that they have not done. Of course they don't. It's harmful to their fire. It's private companies, they have a business to run, and we shouldn't bother them. All we have to do is make sure they keep the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212130931	I think, for the sake of good order, I have to say that another time you can only express it as whimpers if you have to use an expression in relation to it and if we are to stay within the framework of the Rules of Procedure. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212130943	It doesn't bother me, I'll say. But there is, for example. companies like McDonald's, who have actually been out praising these tax lists. It is just to say that the picture may be a little more broad than the rapporteur says. Then the rapporteur says that some companies are dissatisfied with this. Yeah, but it's not always that you think it's nice to be looked at in the seams. There are also ministries that would like to shut down, we know, with the blackout law, and this is an area in which the Liberal Alliance has actually taken a progressive line in terms of openness. However, it is in the interests of society that we have a great deal of openness and that the citizens have a great deal of insight into, for example. This type of information.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212131029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212131030	Now the rapporteur was not here when we previously discussed this difference between public and private, and I know that there is not so much distinction in the Enhedslisten, but most other parties do, and so there is a huge difference between demanding openness from a state and from a private company. There's a huge difference. We have no right to know everything they do in a company as long as they comply with the law. There are two completely different things, and there is therefore a difference. And for the fact that in some companies they say that oh, how nice it was that it was now revealed that we are paying the tax we have to pay, I have to say that it is a little absurd that one in the Enhedslisten, which itself creates the suspicion, can then ask: is it not nice for you that we are now removing it again? It's the very same people who whip up a mood.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212131116	Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212131118	I really think it is a rather funny view, as the rapporteur says here, that the citizen must be power-critical of the state, but that the citizen must not be power-critical of companies, even if it is very, very large companies, which also have great power in the society we have. There I think there is a lack of coherence. But I would like to ask about the fact that what the open tax lists can do today is that you can see what a company pays in tax in Denmark. It is a piece of information which cannot be seen from the financial statements of a large multinational group. So let's take A.P. Møller - Mærsk A/S, who writes in 2013 that 18.2 billion has been paid. kr. Baby. But we can also see from the open tax lists that A.P. Møller - Mærsk A/S has paid 60.7 million. kr. in tax in 2013. Is it not interesting that in this way you get a more accurate insight into what is actually being paid in taxes, for example? by an undertaking such as A.P. Møller - Mærsk A/S?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212131229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212131231	There may of course be all sorts of things that may be interesting in relation to corporate tax payments. Personally, I think that citizens should know more about Denmark being no. 112 out of 140 countries when it comes to the tax effect on the desire to invest in Denmark. This is not something we discuss very much. A new report has just come from the World Economic Forum which shows that it is true that we have good education and that we have good roads and that is fine, but we have a tax burden and a complexity of our tax legislation, which is hostile to companies. And that means that sir... Rune Lund's children and my children are going to grow up in a country that is quite hostile to investment in the field of taxation. And it hurts them because it gives fewer opportunities in their upbringing; it gives a less rich country. I'm very concerned about that. And it may be that you are not so concerned about it in the Enhedslisten, but we are in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212131330	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212131331	But the tax that is being demanded is precisely what we are using to get a strong society, to get a good infrastructure, to get good education, to get good hospitals, something that will also benefit companies. If we now take the World Economic Forum, it is indeed the case that on the World Economic Forum's top thieves list of countries with the best competitiveness, Denmark is currently in twelfth place in the report covering 2015-2016. And it's a step up, because the year before, we were number one. 13. And we can take lots of other international studies that show that Denmark's competitiveness is at its top. And it is precisely because we have a strong welfare society, which is funded by tax, and here it is also important that those who have the most money and earn the most, the large multinational corporations, also contribute to the community and do not do aggressive tax thinking.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212131420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212131421	But it is here that the waters part so violently between the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance, that the Enhedslisten does not understand that the whole basis for future prosperity is undermined by creating an investment climate as hostile as it is in the field of taxation. For it is of course important for companies that they can be in a place where there is virtually no corruption. It is also important that you are in a place where you can count on what the authorities are saying to be what is going to happen. But it is also very important that you can actually make some money. So when we have a tax climate that is so hostile and here the tax lists make up a smaller part, I am aware of that, but after all a hostile part it has an impact on whether people want to invest in Denmark, and hence also for the Denmark we create for future generations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212131513	Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212131516	I started by thinking that I wouldn't ask this question because I thought it was almost too polemical that it was drawing up the fronts too sharply, but I really think that the rapporteur must correct me that it is quite clear right now, when the waters separate, that where we have some fears about what kind of companies we draw to Denmark, if it is some companies that are being affected in relation to choosing Denmark, because we don't publish these tax figures. If we remove the tax figures from the open, we in the Liberal Alliance have an idea that it would be more advantageous for some companies to choose Denmark. And then it is that I am asking the question, which I tried to start with, but which I could see from the rapporteur was a little knotty: what kind of companies would choose Denmark without open tax figures but would not choose Denmark if there were transparency about tax figures? In the alternative, we believe that there are some companies that we are not really interested in in Denmark if they cannot tolerate the transparency of the tax figures.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212131634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212131636	I do not understand the question that we should be afraid to attract companies to Denmark. That's a very strange fear to have. The alternative markets itself to being a party occupied by entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs will hopefully also grow and become real companies. Which companies should we not want to attract to Denmark? What fears does the rapporteur have about attracting wrong businesses? I simply do not understand that at all. Nor do I understand that the rapporteur, with his background, can be said, in any marketing, as far as I understand, is not aware that a company which is wrongly accused of something is, of course, also suffering damage to its business.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212131722	Sir. Street.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212131723	That was the good reason why I never usually put things up so clearly, because then we get into a debate where we are just trying to paint the other person into a corner. We really want to attract companies, but the whole question is whether open tax lists frighten some companies. In my view, it does not frighten any companies. There I very much agree with Enhedslisten that it is almost talking down to companies. Of course, one can choose a country like Denmark because one gets an infrastructure and the skilled employees that are now and that our welfare society creates. So my whole point is: it may well be that these open tax lists create some havoc in the media and politically, but they also create a debate and openness. I believe that the companies that Denmark must attract, and which the alternative would also very much like to attract, are not afraid of a debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212131803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212131804	Okay, but I'm not so afraid that we're painting each other in a corner either, because I actually think that the alternative and the Liberal Alliance are very, very different parties when it comes to the opportunities both for entrepreneurs and companies in general. So I'm not so afraid of that. In fact, I think it is very important that we talk about the differences that exist and that the alternative also becomes aware of what their policy actually is, because it is also information for citizens when you explain what your policy is, and so the differences are also clearer. Because you obviously do not realize that a brand is of course a business, that is what you sell, after all you sell your brand and your product, and if someone improperly hates it, it is of course a risk to your business.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212131853	The last person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212131857	Thank you. I do not know whether the rapporteur is doing this consciously or unconsciously, but it seems quite crazy that what is like the argument is the rapporteur's own experience with companies. The rapporteur has been around asking whether they are afraid of this, and then they say yes, and anyone who so doubts it has no understanding of what companies are or what reputation is or what branding is. I have not heard the rapporteur make a single real argument about what the negative is in this, and I have not heard the rapporteur make a single real argument that this would be a problem or that some companies would opt out of Denmark because of open tax lists. This is a completely real question, which the Alternative also asks about what kind of companies it is that look at Denmark and say: No, there are open tax lists that we then choose not to place our business. So this is helping to create openness and perhaps also to put an end to some of the myths that I actually think the rapporteur himself contributes to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212132000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212132002	Thank you. Of course, that is a perfectly fair question: what is the problem at all with company tax lists? And I would like to say that, of course, I am based on the analyses that have been carried out, among other things. also from Dansk Erhverv and Dansk Industri. After all, it is they who are talking to their members and those who have the great insight. It is clear that this is the basis on which I stand when I say that the company tax lists are a problem, and it is also, of course, based on the whole rhetoric surrounding the company tax lists when they were made, and then some of the cases that have been followed, where companies have been put out to say that they are not paying corporation tax when there have been perfectly legitimate and legitimate reasons why they have not done so. So, of course, there are problems with having some company tax lists that hang companies for something that they have not done and they have not violated the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212132054	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212132055	You'd think the world would collapse and we wouldn't have a single crown demanded. The fact is that the more openness we have created, the more companies pay corporation tax and the more revenue there is for the Treasury. That was 66 billion. kr. Last year. That's a positive story. That's good. And that information would be available anyway, unless the Liberal Alliance also wants to do away with companies having to make an accounting. So it is a good thing that this information is, of course, available openly and is included on an objective list on the Tax Ministry's website, instead of all sorts of private initiatives that have to provide very relevant information.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212132127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212132129	There is no reason to attribute things to each other that have not been said. I never think a debate will be better. We think it is very good that we have publicly available accounts, of course. When I am against these corporate tax lists, it is because the very purpose of them is to expose companies for something they have not done. That is what I think is unreasonable and creates a hostile climate around companies. The company tax lists are just part of the climate we create around companies; I would call it an investment climate. I think we should start by having them removed and then talk about how we can create a more positive environment around companies and people investing in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212132209	There is an extra questioner who has asked for the floor. It's Mrs. Malou Lundød, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212132214	Thank you. What actually got me out of the chair was that the rapporteur repeated this by saying that companies were being exhibited for something they had not done. But this is really just a complete openness to what it should be like. Could the rapporteur not imagine that it would be better, in fact, to give the true picture rather than perhaps having private individuals sitting there digging into information that is not quite precise and that is why they might have produced a non-justifiable picture of companies? Could the rapporteur not imagine that this was the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212132247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212132248	No. The state should not abuse its citizens. The State should not exhibit companies when there is no evidence. That's what you do with the tax lists. You misrepresent the fact that there are some companies that break the law when they don't. I don't want the state to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212132308	Mrs. Malou Wonderful.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212132309	Well, then, I would like to follow up on some of what the rapporteur also said earlier, namely that we have an anti-business situation, that is to say that we have an anti-business environment for companies in this country and that it can give us a less rich country. I think that is how the rapporteur put it. So I would just like to ask quite clearly: are the tax lists such an anti-business approach and will open tax lists thus making Denmark a less rich country?
ParlaMint-DK_20160212132334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212132334-2	I think I said very clearly in my speech that corporate tax lists are one of many measures that make it less attractive to be a company in Denmark. We, as citizens or politicians, cannot be interested in that. We may be interested in creating a proper and transparent framework for companies that allows them to comply with the law and that they can run their business for the benefit and benefit of all those who work there. They pay their taxes, and then there are all those who benefit from the fact that companies pay taxes in Denmark, not only through corporate tax, but also through taxes and taxes in every possible and impossible other way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212132413	Thank you. No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160212132440	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 23 February 2016, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
