ParlaMint-DK_20160406130244	Today there are the following reviews: Henning Hyllested (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 173 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of chain liability). Jakob Sølvhøj (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 174 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on improved savings rules in the context of the accompanying scheme for children and adults with disabilities). Jacob Mark (SF) and Jonas Dahl (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 175 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending Article 5 of the Law on State Educational Assistance (SU Law) on the possibility of receiving remuneration during the SU- entitled internship). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Member of the Folketing Nase Khader (KF) and others. I have been informed that they wish to withdraw the following proposals: proposal for a parliamentary resolution on the deadline for completion of the scheduled work of the Committee on Religious Affairs. B 92). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406130415	I have to inform you that of Tilde Bork under No. 4 questions put to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, Question No. S 890, is deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. The first question is to the Minister for Culture by Mr. Mogens Jensen of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406130436	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406130437	Thank you. I shall then, as the custom is, read out the question: Does the Minister agree with the Danish People's Party's cultural rapporteur that Danish access to e-books should be restricted and privatised as proposed in Altingen on 15 March?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406130454	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406130455	As a starting point, I do not think that we politicians should dictate what should happen in the future in relation to the library lending of e-books. We must remember that the eReolen is based on completely free negotiation. The publishers can choose for themselves whether their books should be on the eReolen and, as you know, some have opted out of the eReolen. In my opinion, the eReolen and the publishers, who are the two parties, should find the right solutions for themselves, because it is important that we in Denmark have a model where both the market and libraries can exist at the same time. So that is my answer as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406130629	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406130631	I thank you for that, and I think that is an interesting answer, because I think that somehow it does not quite answer the question I have asked. I wonder whether the Minister agrees with what the Danish People's Party is questioning here about whether, even in the case of electronic books, there should be what applies to the physical books, where it has always been a tradition in Denmark, at least in recent times, that one can borrow from the library without having to pay for each book. That is what I think the Danish People's Party is questioning, as they are proposing that there might be a privatisation of the eReolen. This will mean that the Danes' right to borrow books in the library free of charge will only apply to physical books and not to electronic books, and I think this would be a completely wrong development for our welfare society, because then it is a question of really introducing user charges for libraries. So I would like to hear about the Minister's own position on this, i.e. whether he agrees that in the future it should also be possible for Danes to borrow electronic books free of charge, of course, with payment through our tax funds, as it has been so far, in the same way as for physical books.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406130809	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406130810	I have to answer yes to that. The government has no plans to change the free access for citizens to borrow books, whether in one way or another. On the other hand, I think it is okay that, just as with physical books, people can wait a little longer. If it is a very new book, then you do not have an unlimited number of copies, and then people have to wait a bit in line before they can get their free book lending. And the same could also apply to e-books. This is something the parties themselves have talked about. There are some of the great success writers who do not want to play that game, and this is also true of some of the publishers, but most of them will fortunately, and the loan of e-books is therefore down to about 1%. of all loans. But that is why I think the question is relevant, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406130915	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406130916	The Minister therefore clearly states that the good Danish library tradition should not change. And I am glad of that, because then we agree that the tradition that you can go down and borrow books in the library and that it is something we have paid for with our tax dollars so you don't have to pull money out of your pocket every time, because we know who it is going to hurt, just as it is going to continue when it comes to electronic books. It is also natural, because it does not really matter what platform the books are on in my view. In this way, however, the Minister also says that he does not agree with Mr Gundelach. Alex Ahrendtsen, who proposes that the eReolen be placed under private control. And so it would have to be financed commercially. Am I right?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131007	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131008	It's not that easy for me to answer Mr. Alex Ahrendtsens and the Danish People's Party. It would not look like either him or the party to support increased user charges, so I doubt that. But I can tell you that we received a report from the Committee on Bibliography on this matter last year, and I intend to call on the cultural rapporteurs to discuss it. And then we can meet again and talk about this important question. When I mention that this concerns only about approx. 1% of the loan, it is not to minimize it, because it will grow, and the publishers disagree wildly. I could tell you a lot about that, and we can discuss it on that occasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131104	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131106	Thank you for that answer. I think that we are in agreement, and that is why I am just asking here at the end to be precise: will the Minister take the initiative, or does the Minister agree that the eReolen should be privatised?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131123	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131125	I do not know exactly what is meant by privatisation. Are the publishers privatised? You could say they are. So I don't know what's in it, and that's why I don't want to give too square an answer. I think that when all the media rapporteurs meet, Mr. Mogens Jensen asks that question to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131158	Thank you. Then we move on to question 2. It is also for the Minister of Culture, and it is also for Mr. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131204	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131205	Yeah, so we don't really have to wait until the meeting that the Minister will call. I ask this question: what will the Minister do to ensure that the Danish library tradition continues and that the Danes have access to borrow e-books at a time when libraries and publishers are arguing about this access?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131221	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131223	The Danish tradition is that the Danes should have the opportunity to find and access a very wide and versatile section of books and other material. That is the way it is today, and that is the way it should continue to be. But libraries and their services are not static sizes. There has been a huge development in the library sector for many years, and digitalisation has left its mark. Today you can find and reserve material from home, you can let yourself into unmanned self-service libraries, the so-called open libraries. This has not always been the case and a lot of material, but not everything, can be borrowed digitally on, among other things. The eReolen, without moving to the library. But it is also part of the tradition that there must be a division of labour and a balance between libraries and the book market. It is a challenge to find that balance when the market is constantly evolving. Some publishers are happy with the eReolen, while others have terminated their agreements. The market is on the move and both publishers and other players need to be able to test different approaches to the digital book market. Having said that, however, it is also my opinion that the modern public library should have a good selection of e-books, and I still think the e-Reolen does, even though some of the major publishers currently do not have their books on e-Reolen. But fortunately, the vast majority have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131401	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131403	I understand from the Minister's reply here that he agrees with the Socialists that we must continue the good Danish library tradition with the possibility of borrowing books from the library, both physical books and, as happens more and more, electronic books, e-books. Does the Minister not also disagree with this and would disagree with a proposal to lend electronic books on a commercial basis and therefore to collect money from the user for their lending?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131442	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131443	It follows from what I have said that the government believes that the tradition we have for free access to the culture recorded in books must continue, both for physical books, audio books and e-books, but not to an unlimited extent, especially after a book has been published. And so there have been found until more models for that. When it comes to e-books, they have three fine names: one is called the click model, the other is called something else, and the third is called something third. So this is the way to try to ensure that the physical book, after all, has a chance of getting a distribution before people make free use of its contents. Whether there is any sense in introducing something that can be paid for in this context, I would not like to answer today. What is crucial is that there is the same basic freedom of access to the content of books, whether physically or electronically.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131612	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131613	I now get so little confused, because the Minister said at the outset that it was agreed that there should be free access to both physical books and electronic books in the library • those which would then have been made available by the publishers. Now the Minister says that he will not rule out the possibility of some form of payment being made. In other words, the Minister could nevertheless have thought about introducing user charges, for example. on the loan of e-books?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131644	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131646	[Sound emission]... we have no plans at all. I'm just trying to cover myself up for a future development where virtually every book is sold as e-books. If you can get them free of charge in libraries, you probably won't be able to sell so many, and with the system we have, you can get any book for free, but it's not necessarily the case that everyone can borrow any book right after it's published. If you want it anyway, yes, you have to pay either in the bookstore or in other ways. I'd rather not stand here and say something that hits both me and Mr. Knox. Mogens Jensen in the back of the neck afterwards, when we discover that technical development has made us have to find some new ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131749	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131749-2	The Social Democrats fully agree that we must, of course, be able to deliver what we have always been able to through a free loan in libraries, while at the same time ensuring that this happens in a way that you have a private market and that the publishers can of course live and function and the authors also receive money for their books. For a number of years now we have seen that there has been no agreement between publishers and libraries on electronic lending, and I have called on the Minister, as well as trying to act as a mediator in this and as the head of culture in Denmark, to take the lead in trying to communicate a solution. Is it not a task that it would be natural for the Minister of Culture to undertake?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131840	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131841	I can in one and all agree with what Mr. Mogens Jensen here has described this is the problem in a nutshell and I also thank you for the call for me to sit down for the table end. I will not say yes unless both parties ask me to do so, and it should be a broad section of both sides. So I do not want to say 'yes' unconditionally to stand in front of the table in the difficult debate that will come in the future between publishers and libraries and authors.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131928	We thank the Minister for Culture and thank him. Mogens Jensen. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 3 to the Minister for Education and Research, and the question has been asked by Mr. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131939	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131940	Thank you, President. What does the Minister intend to do to strengthen the development of several research and training sites on Lolland-Falster, which can support the strong competences, for example: in the field of agricultural production, which is already in the area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406131958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406132000	It is of great concern to me and to the government that good opportunities are given to strengthen the development and access to knowledge and education throughout the country. This is a prerequisite for innovation and growth throughout the country. Regional growth can build on the strengths that already exist in the region. For example, for Lolland-Falster, this is true. the agricultural and food sectors. With the strategy for growth and development throughout Denmark from November 2015, the government has presented a coherent strategy to support that the country will not be divided into areas with development and settlement areas. The strategy includes a number of initiatives aimed at improving the conditions for production and investment, strengthening regional knowledge cooperation and the innovative capacity of enterprises. The agricultural and food industry is a special priority for the government. With the agricultural package of December last year, the government has concluded an agreement to make the food and agricultural industry better equipped to produce more, increase exports and help create growth and employment in Denmark. It also benefits Lolland-Falster. At the same time, the government also promotes other growth potentials on Lolland-Falster, for example. in the construction sector, where the establishment of the Fehmarnbelt network will support the Fehmarn building project leading to sustainable innovation, employment and growth in the region. For me, it is absolutely crucial that we, as a society, are trained the graduates that companies around the country need. It goes without saying that we cannot offer all higher education in all the cities on the Danish map, but the desire to take higher education must not require that you move to the big cities. In this context, regional educational institutions play a special role in providing competent labour to all areas of the country. I would therefore like to keep professional colleges and professional academies firmly committed to meeting their regional coverage obligations in the future. I would like to stress that, at the same time, the institutions must guarantee the professional level of training. Broad regional training coverage must not be at the expense of the quality of our education sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406132219	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406132219-2	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I thought the Minister would refer to the growth strategy, some of which was put forward by the government last year and some of which will be put forward this spring. And I am also very pleased that the Minister signs by saying that, of course, there must be higher education in all areas, including rural areas, and that this means that you do not necessarily have to move from the countryside to the centre cities in order to be able to take on an education. But what I am also asking is to a large extent a subject such as research, in other words research jobs. Because there is no doubt that if there really is to be gunpowder in the cannon, you can say, that is, if you have to have some local areas where there is growth and dynamism • it also shows all experience in Denmark • then you have to have some highly educated and some research jobs. There has to be some research that can support some of the competences that are already in the areas. I just need some kind of attitude from the Minister. In other words, I suppose the Minister has a position on whether we should strengthen rural areas' competences. And you can, among other things. • to do so by placing research work places for example. Lolland-Falster. The Agricultural College is a good example. I can mention that they have a huge number of exciting institutes, which lie to the right to locate in some of the rural areas, rather than continuing the process of centralisation, which unfortunately has been going on for many years. That is why my question is very brief: what is the Minister's position that we might have to move some research jobs into rural areas? There must be a little more concrete policy than just a growth plan that focuses almost exclusively on the private sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406132415	The minister. The Minister for Education and Research There is no light in the microphone). We have to try to get the technician to look at it, because the viewers can't hear the minister if we don't get light on the microphone. We're trying to use the microphone next door.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406132452	Okay. I borrow the microphone of the Minister for Transport and Building here, and then I just want to emphasise what I said in the reply: it is important for the government that we create opportunities for growth throughout and in this context, of course, it is also important that we have knowledge communicated from our strong research-based educational institutions to companies outside university cities. And there the government has actually taken a number of initiatives. Let me just highlight here one which is being rolled out. It is in fact the decision to set up rural growth pilots where companies will also be able to apply on Lolland-Falster to get a person with long higher education into a company, which will thus be the direct bridge builder from the knowledge institution to the production in the companies. That's what the government has set aside for 40 million. kr. In fact, it is a project which I myself have great expectations of will be able to contribute to precisely what the questioner is calling for, namely how we get knowledge brought out to companies for the benefit of growth and development throughout the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406132617	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406132619	Thank you. I am, of course, very pleased that we should have growth throughout Denmark. I am also aware of the government's proposal to make these centres with rural pilots. That's 40 million. kr., which then has to cover an area of more than 1 million people, and we can quite quickly figure out that it's probably not something that's going to move so much, unfortunately. But what does the Minister think you can go back with? What am I supposed to say to my municipality, Guldborgsund Municipality? Should I say: the government is not listening anyway, they are not listening to us standing out in rural areas asking if we cannot get any strength, can be allowed to get pondus so that we can develop some issues and some competences that benefit the whole country? What do you want me to say?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406132714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406132715	I would strongly recommend to the honourable Member that he refer very precisely to what I have said here: that the government is concerned with the creation of development throughout the country and that there are several keys to be played on in this context. The questioner now mentions the agricultural and food industry in his question, and I would just like to refer to the agricultural package adopted by the government here in the Danish Parliament, which is intended precisely to increase agricultural production, that is to say. food production, which I assume will also be used on Lolland-Falster. So I would strongly recommend that the questioner, that is to say to go home to the City of Guldborg and Lolland-Falster, and explain the initiatives already taken in this area when it comes to creating opportunities for growth and development throughout the country. I very much hope that the questioner will look beyond the fact that the questioner did not actually vote in favour of the package and will look at the content of the package and relate to the possibilities offered by the package for Lolland-Falster in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406132832	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406132833	Thank you. Well, I'm definitely dealing with the growth package as well. It is, of course, like what I am trying to say to the Minister in my question: I do not think that these options are an answer to my question. I mean, I don't think they're exactly an answer to the questions: what about these heavy research sites? What about these heavy research skills, which lie in universities and different places, DTU, KU etc. etc.? What about them? In other words, I can hardly help but conclude that the government believes that the heavy research and training sites should continue to be in the center towns. And then we have to hope that 40 million. kr. here and 10 million. kr. There are enough rural areas to find out for themselves, that is. find out how to create some research jobs in one way or another, while billions are still being spent in center cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406132927	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406132932	I am very sorry if what the questioner is saying here should be understood to mean that the wish is for a Guldborgsund university to be established, because that makes no sense. I'm sorry to say that, but it doesn't. What makes sense is to bridge the gap between strong research institutions, which can also measure up to international standards, i.e. where we have high-quality research. And we have that in our universities. What this is all about is building bridges between our strong universities and our strong educational institutions and bringing the knowledge they possess into the country for the benefit of growth and development throughout Denmark. That is the task, I believe. I believe that you will miss out on the fact that you are wrong if you think that the best thing would be to set up a so-called Guldborgsund university with a research institution and other things. That is not my aim. My aim is to ensure that the high-quality research carried out at our educational institutions will benefit everyone in Danish society. This is the way we ensure that we have the best research, of the highest quality, not knowing, if I may say so, to lubricate the liver mail so thinly that we cannot measure ourselves internationally and thus fail to meet the demands that I, as Minister, will allow me to make on the use of the tax dollars we spend on research and education in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406133104	Thank you, Minister. And thank you, sir. Kasper Roug. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Question No 5, by Mr de la Malène It is for the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, and it is put forward by Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406133120	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406133121	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that the municipalities increasingly require a diagnosis in order for citizens with a loss of function to obtain the right to social benefits, as it does, for example. is described in the article "Health Manager: The municipalities all too often require a diagnosis to help the Politiken on 26 March 2016?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406133145	Let me start by apologizing, now I just took the floor, I have got a nod from the President to thank for the question, because it is a relevant discussion, and it is also an interesting article. I think it is a good thing that we have an opportunity here to make it quite clear that there is therefore no requirement whatsoever for a diagnosis as a prerequisite for obtaining assistance under the Services Act. On the other hand, the determining factor is whether the person concerned has a disability of such a degree that he or she falls within the scope of the person concerned as described in the Services Act. It is true that there will often be a diagnosis of a disability, but the diagnosis is not decisive. So if the municipalities refuse social assistance simply because there is no diagnosis, it simply does not comply with the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406133239	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406133241	That then leads to the next question as to what the Minister intends to do. We have here a health director who says in the newspapers that the municipalities all too often require a disease diagnosis, so that citizens with a loss of function can get help from the public. It is then, you might say, contrary to the law when you do so. I also hear the Minister say today that the legislation is not being observed. Then we come to the point: what will the Minister do to ensure that the municipalities comply with the legislation, and what has the Minister done specifically in this case, where a health director is out to pronounce it here? I believe that when a health director says these things, there is at least something about it. Then it is not a matter of the Minister hearing it from me only in consultation or otherwise. We have a director in this area who says that this is a serious problem. So what will the Minister do? Will the Minister send out a shepherd's letter? Will the Minister look at the legislation in relation to the adult regulations? Is it any clarification in the guidance that needs to be made?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406133352	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406133354	So, in the article on which the whole question is concerned, the problem is raised precisely from a health perspective, and the focus in this issue is whether the doctors are used incorrectly in the course where they should have done something else. And then I have to say that I am not really aware in this article and in this whole debate that the problem should have been raised from such a social point of view. But it is clear that I would like to ask my ministry to discuss the matter with KL, because it is under the auspices of KL that we will then have to have this question, which has been raised somewhere under the auspices of KL, clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406133447	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406133448	There's actually a statement from KL. I quote: Annette Wandel, head of quality and politics in Danske Patients... No, it wasn't that. I'm sorry! It wasn't exactly that one. It is here: Christian Harsløf, Head of Health Policy of the National Association of Municipalities, rejects the criticism, but explains that disease diagnosis is naturally part of the municipal procedure when a citizen's needs are to be identified. So the thing about having a discussion with KL, which does not recognise that there are some challenges, I do not know how much can help. So perhaps what is needed is for the Minister to put this in a good and thorough way to the municipalities and to say that we are not getting help on the basis of a diagnosis, but because of the disability that we have and that it must be respected. Will the Minister do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406133539	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406133540	I am glad that the questioner once again says: what is this article about? Well, it raises a problem from a health professional angle, and that's what's the difference here. That is also why I say that I would like to take that discussion with the KL in order to clarify that question. Because it's not a problem that's been raised from this social point of view. However, I made it quite clear in the first part of the answer to this question that if there are municipalities which refuse social assistance simply because no diagnosis has been made, it is not in accordance with the law and it cannot be said much clearer than I am doing here. The municipalities are aware of the nature of the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406133635	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406133637	Will the Minister examine the extent of this problem and forward the result to the Social Affairs Committee, and will the Minister inform the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment of what the KL and the Minister are achieving and how action is being taken in this area? Otherwise, we will have the same problem in a few years' time. This is not a new issue. I can see here that DUKH has also written about this challenge in 2012, namely that they often got calls from citizens who, so to speak, are chasing a diagnosis to get help with their children with ADHD or other. So what is the Minister going to do in the future to follow up on this issue so that we do not come back here in a few years' time with the same problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406133734	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406133735	As mentioned, I would now like to ask the Ministry to address KL from the social angle, because that is what I represent here, in relation to how the aid is given. And, as I said, I am not aware that the problem we are discussing here should have been raised from a social standpoint. Again: I agree that in the case of children and young people with ADHD there is a discussion about whether a diagnosis is required for any help whatsoever, and I can say that basically I am not of that opinion, but we will have it examined more closely now that we are faced with some groups that get stuck in this way between the health system and the social system. I would just like to say that if there is a reluctance in the health system to give diagnoses, which may have many professional reasons, there must be no impact on the possibility of social assistance. Because if you have a disability of such a nature that you meet the criteria for obtaining assistance under the Service Act, then you need help, and so you must, even if you have not been diagnosed. However, in order to conclude the question with this agreement, I would like to ask the Ministry, as I have said, to take this discussion with KL in order to clarify whether they have the experience that there is this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406133913	Thank you. Before moving on to question 6, I have to tell you that we are doing what we can to make the technology work, but that, for the sake of the viewers, we need to have patience, which means that the microphones must be switched on, otherwise it is quite impossible to hear what the ministers and members of the Folketing say. I know it's unsatisfactory, but I'm hoping for your patience. We move on to Question 6 to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, and this question has also been asked by Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406133946	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406133949	What considerations is the Minister making on the occasion of the murder of the 57-year-old social and health assistant at the settlement Lindegården in Roskilde committed on 25 March 2016 by a 30-year-old mentally ill and abusing resident?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406134003	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406134004	Let me start by saying that it is deeply tragic that we have now again witnessed the killing of an employee on a settlement offer. Let me also stress that this is something that I take very, very seriously, because it is simply not acceptable for us to have such incidents on our accommodation offer. We simply cannot have settlements where it is not safe for the employee to go to work. It must be safe both for employees and for residents to be in the country's settlements. In view of the violent events which we have seen in previous years, unfortunately, initiatives have been taken in this area. At the heart of these initiatives is the development of the national guidelines for the prevention of violence which have been sought after. The work is under way, and it is not quite complete, but it is a necessary task to complete thoroughly and sensibly, because these guidelines must provide, among other things. the municipalities are quite practical instructions for action in relation to how to avoid violence in housing and welfare homes in the future. Having said that, however, I would also like to acknowledge quite clearly that the recent tragic incident at Lindegården in Roskilde shows that there is therefore a need to do more than just discuss national guidelines which have been sought after. That is why I currently have an agreement in the calendar, where my colleague, the Minister for Health, also participates, and where we talk to the professional organisations in this area, so that we can discuss together how we can create a secure environment for the country's employees in the settlements. Because there is no doubt that we must do better.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406134203	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406134204	Yes, this is an incredibly sad case, and we have also seen cases in the past where several ministers have been out saying that now there should be action. But there is a need for action now and here, so the Minister can come up with the time perspective. I have read these articles and followed the case of the killed social and health assistant, and the resident in question should not have been at that place of residence. It is the case that, according to the Services Act's settlement offer according to § 107 and § 108, you have to go in and look at what kind of residents are being searched to those places. And as I understand, the man has been hospitalized on red papers 14 days before... at least that's what's been in the paper. Then it seems quite grotesque that a man who has been in a closed ward 14 days before, because the man was a danger to himself and others, is now on a settlement offer under section 107 or 108 of the Service Act. I don't understand how that can be done. Another thing to take in is the closure of psychiatric beds. It might be that this man was supposed to be in an open psychiatric ward, but where, you might say, there was enough staff to care for the man's needs too. Something quite different from what is being said here, which the Minister is allowed to mention, which is absolutely horrible, is that we have heard that students do not have attack alarms. It simply cannot be that because you are a student, you do not have an assault alarm so you can call for help. The Minister may raise this question as to whether or not the Minister wishes to address it. It has also been written in the newspapers here that students do not have assault alarms. So I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406134413	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406134415	I would like to thank the questioner for just asking rather nuancedly about this issue, because these are people who, as it were, move between different types of offers. Either you are in the psychiatry of treatment, that is to say in a psychiatric ward and thus under my colleague, the Minister of Health, or you are on a settlement offer which is then under my jurisdiction. What I think is crucially important to include in this discussion, that is to say to include in the work table that we have, fortunately, set a date for meeting, where my colleague is also involved, is the discussion on how this cooperation works. I believe that this clearly shows that cooperation between the various authorities is just not good enough, and it is, of course, a discussion about whether doctors can improve on an ongoing basis and in cooperation with the settlements to assess whether the accommodation offer in question can deal with the person concerned. And then it must also be a discussion that such a person, a citizen whose condition is so noticeably deteriorating and to such an extent that it must be said that he is a danger to both employees and other residents, must be able to find a place in a psychiatric ward. That's why I'm saying it's going between two authorities, and that's also why we're both at this desk. Then it is also a discussion about the responsibilities of the municipalities to ensure that there is also a link between the staff resources and the citizens with whom the staff work on the accommodation offers. It is clear that we must also discuss whether, in municipal daily life, these settlements are subject to excessive burdens, and it is clear that once again the guidelines, the clear rules, should apply, simply to support employees who work with citizens with mental and social problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406134631	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406134632	I understand from the Minister's reply that the Minister is of the opinion that there is simply a lack of clear rules in this area, and that is what the Minister is working on with the Minister for Health and the elderly. But the time perspective was not addressed by the Minister. How long will this work take? Because it takes action. We hear daily about the dismantling of psychiatric beds, and I think it is five who are on a waiting list for Security, which is one of the places where some of those who are at least at risk to others are. So that's why it's connected in a whole. What's the time perspective, what's the date for this meeting? And does the Minister think that students shouldn't have assault alarms on them if they're on a settlement offer?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406134726	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406134727	To start with the last of the attack alarms first, I would like to say that I do not really know how to deal with the rules of the individual settlements. At any rate, this seems to me to be worrying when dealing with potentially dangerous people. It is undoubtedly a dangerous place of work to be on a home offer. We have now seen examples of this with five killings in the last four years. I understand the impatience, I have it myself, and that is also why I am saying that something needs to be done here. We have the calendar meeting on 9 May, where both the Minister for Health and I and the professional organisations sit together to discuss it in addition to the discussion on the national guidelines. For the national guidelines, what has been demanded is in fact what has been demanded. That is the work that has been started. I have asked for this to be completed as soon as possible, but it should not be in such a way that we end up in a hurry to become cargo, so that we do not get it done properly. But what concerns me is that we are simply looking at what we can do further beyond the national guidelines. Among other things, it can be done. be the discussion about the conditions for employees in everyday life in relation to protection when at a dangerous workplace.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406134855	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406134856	I am quite interested in what those guidelines will contain, in relation to the search criteria, and in relation to whether there are enough staff. I have to confess, frankly, that after the times when we have seen this in the media it is not the first killing of staff I think it is simply under all criticism that there has been no action. The former minister was out to say that work was started in this area. Why has that not been followed up? That is simply not good enough. It's gonna be a long time until May 9th.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406134934	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406134935	But I think the questioner agrees with me that we should do the work properly. We should not just say in haste that we are now publishing some national guidelines, and then the sacred grave is well preserved. Because it's not. It's not done with it. Nor has it been done with half a job. This work is under way. There are good, talented people working hard on this because it's important. It's important it works. It is not important that it appears 2 weeks before expected. On 9 May, if the questioner was aware of how difficult it can sometimes be to gather so many players around a table. Because it is important that all actors are brought together at the same table, and this issue covers several authorities. It can be extremely difficult to get something like this into a higher unit, but it is not the case that we just sit with our hands in our laps. We take this very seriously, and we must. We owe it to the employees, and we owe it to the residents. It is a discussion about what a settlement is for a type of place, how we best take care of the people who have resided in a settlement, but certainly also what the framework is for the employees, so that it does not become an insecure workplace, but that as a professional you can do your job and take care of the people who need you to take care of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406135101	Thank you to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, and thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party. Then we move on to Question 7. This is for the Minister of Justice, and the questioner is Mr. Rasmus Prehn of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406135114	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406135116	Thank you. I have to read out the question: will the Minister look at whether there can be a fairer distribution of police resources so that North Jutland will not be so heavily burdened in the future by lack of police, as is currently the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406135131	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406135133	Large bills have been drawn on Danish police since the terrorist attack in Copenhagen and the introduction of temporary border controls. It is clear that when so much staff is needed for border controls and guarding, as has been the case, all police circles will be affected, including the North Jutland Police Department. Unfortunately, it can't be any different. How the division is to be between the individual police circles should be based on a police professional judgement, of course taking into account specific local challenges and the priorities we have politically defined in the multiannual agreement, for example. The action against burglar crime and the biker and gang environment. I am confident that the police are doing that and I am convinced that the police are doing what is possible to distribute the burden between police circles in a fair and reasonable way. At the same time, I can inform the questioner that the police from 1 April have changed their guarding efforts so that the circles in Jutland and Funen, including the North Jutland Police, no longer send personnel to guard in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406135235	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406135236	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for answering these questions. Actually, it's been holding a little hard. I think this is the fourth time I have asked questions about this, but this is the first time I have had the opportunity to bring the Minister down and answer it, because otherwise the Minister should have prepared the answer to it. This is something that takes up a lot in Northern Jutland, because there are many really scary stories in the media about increasing violence, increased drug crime, young people who are subject to stupid penalties. And there are a lot of homeowners and holiday home owners who are subjected to forced entry. Where the rest of the country has fortunately seen a decrease in the number of break-ins, we are in the unfortunate situation in North Jutland that we have seen an increase in the number of break-ins. That's why you're wondering why it's the North Jutland Police who's gonna hand in the most police officers. I believe that, for that matter, most North Jutlanders and Social Democrats are in complete agreement with the Minister that there are common tasks to be solved. When there is a terrorist threat, we must stand together and oppose it, and when there are limits to be guarded, we must also ensure that this task is done in the best possible way. And there it is, of course, also the case that we North Jutland must make our contribution. However, many people in North Jutland wonder that when we have an increase in burglary, when we have increased violence, increased drug crime, it is Nordjylland's Police Department that has to hand over most police officers. There is an overview here, which Nordjyske Stiftstidende has made, where you can see from the inventory that has been made that the North Jutland Police must deliver, which corresponds to 1,200 male hours per week corresponding to about 32 full-time employees, while e.g. Mid- and West Jutland Police only have to deliver 300 man-hours. The Copenhagen Police Department also has 300 man-hours, i.e. significantly fewer man-hours. So it is Nordjyllands P.D. who has to hand over most police officers, even though, unlike the rest of the country, you have an increase in crime. This is not understood in North Jutland, and I would like to hear the Minister's reply to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406135458	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406135458-2	I always come with great pleasure and answer questions from the Members of Parliament, especially when they stay within the Rules of Procedure of the Folketing. If they do, I'll be there, and I'll be very, very happy. The time picture, as Mr. Rasmus Prehn draws, must stand for Mr. Rasmus Prehn's bill. I can say that, as I have just said here and now, from the beginning of this month it is now the case that policemen from Jutland or from Funen are no longer sent to circles here in Copenhagen for guarding duties. Then, of course, when we have border controls, there will be shifts between the individual police circles. It will take turns and it will be up to the police to assess how it is most responsible. But, of course, I'd be happy to hear from Mr. Rasmus Prehn, after the previous government cut away 400 policemen, which other things should then be given away priority. I can tell you, sir. Rasmus Prehn's own party colleague, the legal rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Trine Bramsen, the other day thought that we should send personnel to clean up all hashbods at Christiania so continuously. This is something I think all governments have tried since Christiania was established. This has not yet been fully achieved. Perhaps when we speak of priorities, I could imagine that there were wiser times to do this kind of thing. So all contributions are welcome. And if sir... Rasmus Prehn has an idea of where to remove something from, so I would like to hear it in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406135638	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406135639	I fully understand that this is a hugely difficult task. I also fully understand that the policemen who are are working a certain amount out of their pants to make this work. They're doing everything they can to take care of us, and we should be happy with the police we have. But the simple question is that when, unlike the rest of the country, where we have fortunately reduced the number of break-ins, for example, there is an increase in North Jutland, why do we have to hand in 32 full-time employees, whereas for example. is only 8 in Copenhagen and in Central and West Zealand? I mean, these are some things that can't be understood; that's the distribution I'm asking about. When we agree that there are some common tasks that need to be solved, why is it the North Jutland Police who have to deliver so many more people than they have to do elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406135727	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406135728	I'm sorry, sir. Rasmus Prehn by saying that it is not only North Jutland that is plagued by an increased number of burglaries at the moment. This is true, for example. also in West Jutland. This is an increasing problem because the Danish police are under severe pressure. When you have 10,600 police officers and you distribute them across the country, and at the same time 1,200 man-hours are taken out for guarding duties.That may be where the answer lies in relation to Copenhagen, because the pressure is now much harder on the Copenhagen Police in relation to the tasks and you have also introduced a border control, but, unfortunately, until we implement the agreement, which among other things. Social democracy is part of where Danish police are added 2 billion. kr., be a number of difficulties. I know that the North Jutland Police have given priority to the burglary effort, but it will of course take some time before that effort comes through. Then it is our job in the meantime to do everything we can to make as much police work out of them as possible out of the 10,600 police officers. That process is going on, but I can't solve it by snapping my fingers. The momentary figures for the distribution between circles, which Mr. Rasmus Prehn mentions for example. Nordjylland's case, as I said, is constantly changed, so it is changing between the circles.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406135849	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406135850	It is very interesting that the Minister for Justice also mentions West Jutland as one of the places where there is an increase in the number of break-ins, because it is one of the other areas or one of the other police circles on the list that has to hand over more officers than others. So, they are about to hand in 24 full-time employees, while in Central and West Zealand and in Copenhagen you only have to hand in 8. It's that bias that can't be understood, and the Justice Minister still hasn't answered that. It is true that in North Jutland efforts have now been prioritised in relation to burglary. I think this is because we have put the political focus on it and good for it. Now it is happening that there are a lot of drug crimes that are not being dealt with, and personal threats, threats of violence, threats of stupid fines and everything else. Can't this be shared more fairly?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406135939	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406135940	But everything else would have been easier if the previous government had not cut back on the number of police officers we have at our disposal and which I took over. We have then shared that, because the Left was also part of the police settlement that was preserved. But the thing is, I'm doing everything in my power to get more policemen. When Mr. Rasmus Prehn says that I have not answered the question of distribution, I can say that a police professional assessment is being carried out on an ongoing basis, and that is to distribute it as fairly as possible between circles. I have just said that all the efforts that have been made and thanks for the policemen both in Jutland and on Funen, in relation to guarding tasks in the capital, have now ceased, so that the whole weight that lies there now rests solely on Zealand, and this is an extremely important task. It can be said that when 1,200 years' work is pulled out by the Danish police for guarding tasks in connection with terrorism, which we have seen is a serious threat we saw in February, we saw it in Paris, and we saw it now in Brussels, too, that we also have a border control task, which in all these 1,200 years' work, then it is not just that we can remove it with a snap. So it happens according to a police professional judgement, and the police professional assessment I'm comfortable with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406140054	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of It is also for the Minister of Justice, and the questioner is Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406140101	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406140107	Thank you. What considerations does the Minister make about the many stories in the press that both carers and officials, as well as for example: carers, police and firemen cannot take care of their work in troubled residential areas without taking special precautions, and what initiatives will the Minister take to ensure that both carers and officials can take care of their work in troubled residential areas without fear of being attacked and harassed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406140133	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406140134	The prerequisite for living in a secure and well-functioning community is that we have respect for each other, for public space and for the institutions and people who represent the community. It is totally unacceptable that for a number of years we have seen a marked increase in the number of reports for violence and threats, etc. In recent years we have witnessed a series of violent attacks against people in the public service. police and rescue personnel performing tasks in specific areas. This is a task that I have been aware of since the beginning of my office, and I have therefore worked for a long time with a package of respect for others. in a very close collaboration with the Danish People's Party's Legal Rapporteur who will be launched within a short time. The respect package will include: against assaults and harassment of officials.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406140225	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406140227	Thank you. And thank you for the short answer, I would say. In other words, when I put the question today to the Minister for Justice, it is because I am a Social and Older People's Rapporteur and have been reminded here in recent months that there has been an increase in the number of employees in precisely the area of work that cannot take care of their jobs and go safely to work. And I am fully aware of what the Minister has now said, also from a written reply I have received from the Minister, namely that he considers this unacceptable • we are fully in agreement on this and that there is also a package of respect on the way. But I just find it deeply worrying that we are in a situation now that we can hear that over the last few years there has been an escalation in this area, that is, in addition to the police, who find that tires are being cut up, that stones are being thrown, that cannon strikes are being thrown, that SOSU employees cannot go on evening shift without being attacked and then have to be treated in a hospital. I think it is deeply worrying that we are in a situation now that we can see that there is a group of citizens, especially in these troubled housing areas, who say: it is a victory over the police when we do these things, and that is why, of course, we are just continuing with it. We have also seen that some police reports write about what has happened: that the group of citizens does not want carers to be able to enter the area and care for the elderly. There it is again that with the hat I am now wearing as a social and elderly rapporteur, I think: we have vulnerable citizens who need care and treatment, and we have some staff who are doing an excellent job, and if it cannot be combined, if it is not possible in today's Denmark, then there is something quite raving wrong. That is what I would like the Minister to do. For it is clear that this is unacceptable and that there must be law and order, but here we are faced with a group of citizens who are obviously completely indifferent to law and order and to how to behave and to have respect. I fully agree with what the Minister starts by saying: it is important that we respect each other. They don't have respect. That is why I would really like to have a more detailed discussion and to hear from the Minister how the government intends to take a practical approach to this group of citizens who are very vulnerable.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406140439	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406140440	This is not a new issue, and I do not really think the questioner meant it either. Or I do not know, the questioner will have to explain whether this is a new issue for the rapporteur. But unfortunately, it's not for me. I remember how, when I was the mayor of construction and engineering in Copenhagen, a hard-core ambulance driver actually collapsed when he could tell me that no one would listen to them having problems in getting to certain places and that they were attacked and also in some cases persecuted. Therefore, it has been my concern ever since I took office to get a proper, basic effort done. And that is why I understand that Mrs Karin Nødgaard is talking about here and now and that something has to happen. It won't be long either. It's gonna come this month. There's gonna be a whole-shaped proposal for a full-scale effort aimed at these conditions. To be honest, there has been a lot of talk for many years. Anyway, I started as Minister of Justice at a low level in this context. I can guarantee that I would very much like to explain the contents of this package, but I think it would be a little out of the way if I were to explain in detail what, for example, is going to happen. Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen and I are going to present before too long. What I can guarantee Mrs Karin Nødgaard is: this is an issue which I am fully aware of and which needs to be addressed from a wide range of angles. And when Mrs Karin Nødgaard quite rightly says that this has escalated, I can say as much as this has escalated to almost triple since the mid-1990s, i.e. as far as the number of cases we have about that kind of thing. And that's why I've been working on this pretty much since I joined, and that's why there's gonna be a whole lot of work out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406140630	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406140631	It may well be that I misspelled it out in relation to the fact that it was supposed to be a new issue. What I think is perhaps the more recent issue is that we now also see that it is another group of citizens, of employees who are actually being attacked. It may have been a lot of Falck and rescue services in the past. We have also heard about the fire department in specific areas cannot even come in and put out fires. And we've heard a lot about the police. But now we are faced with this very vulnerable group of SOSU assistants, who just go completely into civilian life, you can almost say, and have to go in and take care of some citizens. It may be disabled, it may be older, it may be many who need it but cannot do it and have actually been told that they should stay away. Where I say we kind of have a new group now that doesn't... now the clock doesn't work again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406140712	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406140714	There is no doubt that when you... well, yes, the thing about you talking ugly to the police or just by chance, I had almost said, got to cut up a tire or got to throw a bottle at a firefighter, or whatever it might be. I mean, if you haven't taken this seriously, and if the penalties that have been in this area haven't been used, then there's nothing to say that it's starting to get infected in other areas. I can only say this: we are going to be very hard on that now. I can guarantee that this is an issue that I take seriously and that we will deliver on it. And I really wanted to present it all now, but I can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406140756	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406140758	Well, I'm sorry, too, that the Minister may not be willing to lift a little of the veil about what's in this package, which is called a respect package. I think it will be really exciting to follow, because I am very concerned about this group of both employees and also citizens of Danish society. But is it an inter-ministerial work that is being done so that you actually get input from precisely the areas that are the softer areas that I represent through my rapporteurs, or is it something that is only being done under the auspices of the Ministry of Justice? And then I would like to know about the timetable, i.e. whether you can say anything specific about it? The latter concerns the travel team that was discussed under a former minister. It was a home minister who said something had been done about this area. Is that something the current government has been working on?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406140842	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406140843	In other words, I have started to solve the problems that I could solve immediately, because I just thought that this matter was therefore urgent. This isn't gonna be something we're gonna get through just like this. A number of measures will be taken in the area of criminal law and the like, a wide range. And then, of course, something will have to be done in the area of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Home Affairs in these contexts. But we will have the opportunity to return to all this once the package has been presented. In relation to the specific question of a former Minister of Housing who should have promised something, that is something I simply do not dare to say anything about. I would very much like to reply to that in writing, but with the responsibility that lies with me and where people can be persecuted from here and right into the Court of Justice, I do not dare to answer anything that may not be so accurate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406140931	Thank you, Minister. And thank you to Mrs Karin Nødgaard. Let's move on to question 9. It is also for the Minister of Justice, and the questioner is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406140940	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406140943	Thank you. What is the Minister's position on the fact that fewer criminal foreigners are being sent home for service despite promises of the opposite before the elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406140953	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406140954	It is a clear priority for the government that as many expelled foreigners as possible should be transferred to the country of origin, and that is why it is not satisfactory. It is certainly not satisfactory that the level of transfer and expulsion sentences is around the 30th. It should not be a secret that I would have liked that figure to be significantly higher. I would like to stress that the Ministry of Justice raises cases of transfer to the home Member State in all cases where there is a possibility that a transfer may take place. The criteria for when the Ministry of Justice raises a transfer case remain unchanged, and I can mention that in 2015 the Ministry raised approx. Eighty transfer cases. However, in order for the transfer to take place, it ultimately requires acceptance from the country of origin to take over the enforcement of the judgment and, unfortunately, this is not achieved in so many cases. It also affects the number of transfers that the length of the penalty in individual cases that are raised on a continuous basis varies. It may be important to which countries cases are raised, as the process and the length of proceedings in each country differ. I have then asked my officials to investigate how more exiled foreigners can be sent home for service. It can, for example, be done. be in the form of new forms of cooperation or strengthening existing cooperation within the European Union. I can guarantee that I am ready to go new ways of curbing the influx of criminal foreigners, and we must therefore find out what measures are working, firstly, and secondly, send out the strongest signal. But there must be coherence, both economic and administrative. But that will certainly be an issue, as Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen and I will have the opportunity to discuss in extenso.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141134	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141136	Well, I'd love to, and thank you for inviting me. I would actually like to read a quote to the Minister: 'Lefts can guarantee that, in the event of voters entrusting ourselves with government responsibilities, we will introduce rules that ensure that we go to the edge of the conventions in order to ensure the expulsion of foreign criminals'. I hope the Minister is aware of the quote, because it is actually a quote from the Minister himself and Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, who at the time was rapporteur for legal policy on the Left. The quote is from May 2015 - it is not even a year old. I would like to hear a little more specific about the guarantee mentioned in the quote, which is from a larger chronicle, namely when the government expects to be able to fulfil that guarantee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141219	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141221	Now I myself have been a minister for nine months, and what I can guarantee is that there will be significant changes during this government's term of office. I can guarantee that. So this is an area in which there are some things that need to be searched, for example, how can we do this? Imagine that we're about to acquire prison places in some places? Would it be possible to build a prison somewhere else? In other words, there are a number of different options that can ensure that what we are talking about can become a reality. Then there is the problem, then, which Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen and I will also be discussing at some point. This is the whole question of the EU agreement on which some of this is based. It is not certain that Denmark can continue to be in it, and then it will actually become even more difficult to secure it. So my efforts are quite clearly directed towards a thorough examination of this area and fulfilling the guarantee that I agree with, I must say to Mr Beazley. Peter Kofod Poulsen, that I have given.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141328	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141329	I'm glad. I just need to check in on what the Minister says, namely that the Minister will live up to the guarantee. Is it also in relation to going completely to the edge of the conventions in order to ensure the expulsion? So, is it government policy that you want to go right to the edge to make sure you can execute this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141350	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141352	I think I should remind you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen said that when I was Minister for Integration, we adopted the expulsion rule in Denmark, which has so far given most of the exiles, namely the charge to the prosecution that it should have resulted in thousands of expulsions since then. That text also stated that one should so I have shown what my approach to that question is before, and yes, I would say to Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, that's what I'm going to show again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141434	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141435	Excellent. Then, in my last round, I'll ask for the number. Because I found out that the number of expulsions was 34 in 2013, 31 in 2014 and 29 in 2015. Does the government have a success criterion? So, what's it gonna take? How many people must be shown in order to say that we have now lived up to the promises; that now we have really fulfilled what we put the voters in anticipation of the elections? Do you have one of those in the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141500	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141502	I wish I had. But the fact is that modern politics simply does not allow me to give. And I agree with Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen all the kindness I find in his person, but the thing is, to deviate my success criterion by one, then it is a political failure. What I can guarantee is that I will do everything in my power to ensure that this figure is substantially increased, because in the amount of punishment we have there are too many criminal foreigners, and that is also a problem with the situation we have in the Danish prison system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141538	Thank you. We're going to point 10, which is with the same crew. It is a question to the Minister for Justice, Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141548	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141552	What does the Minister intend to do to ensure that convicted and expelled criminal foreigners are actually sent out of the country as intended by law?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141600	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141601	Well, I understand, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen wants to go all the way around, but I think I got into it. As I indicated in my last reply, I have asked the Ministry of Justice to investigate how we can have more deportees sent home for service. They are now doing so, and I can guarantee that it will also be examined on the basis of criteria which are non-traditional in relation to what has been looked at so far. I think I also indicated this in my answer. I am ready to go new ways not only to send a signal that they have nothing to do in Denmark, but actually to have more criminals expelled. And on that basis, I can refer to the discussion that we had just now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141644	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141645	It's gratifying. We look forward to discussing this more. Then I would like to ask about rehabilitation, because in the Danish prisons and detention houses there are incredibly many prisoners resocialised every year. A large part of them are people completely unrelated to Denmark: foreigners who come here and commit crime and who should actually have been expelled. Yet we spend an incredible amount of resources resocializing criminals who have no business here in Denmark but who should have just been home. What will the Minister do to stop it? Because I suppose the minister wants to stop.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141722	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141723	Yeah, that's something that seems pointless at first, and I kind of feel like attacking pointless things. So, sir... Peter Kofod Poulsen and I, among others. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141739	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141741	I just have to be sure, for the sake of hundred per cent, that this is one of the clear priorities with which the government will enter into these negotiations, namely that this must, of course, be slowed down, because it is a totally unnecessary waste of money and, incidentally, deeply unfair.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141754	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141755	What I can say is that it seems very strange at any rate at first sight, and I have not yet come across good reasons why it should be so. But I'm not arguing, so when we're gonna negotiate this with the criminal services... and it won't take long... then I'm gonna have the whole argumenting field ahead of me, and then we're gonna have to take a stand on that. I might as well say in advance that I am extremely sceptical about doing so at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141819	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141820	I can then guarantee the Minister that when we turn up, it is at least one of the very clear points that we have with us, because this is completely weary, to put it bluntly. But I don't have any more questions in this round. Thank you to the Minister for the answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141833	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. We move on to the final question, which is also addressed to the Minister of Justice. And the questioner is Mrs Susanne Eilersen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141842	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141844	Thank you for that, President. I shall read out my question: from the answer to Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 347 (alm. part) of the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights states that there are no residential areas in any of the country's police circles where the police generally cannot do their job in the normal way without taking special precautions, but on 17 February 2016 on TV 2 the chairman of the Police Union, Claus Oxfelt, says that areas such as Gellerup in Aarhus Vest, Vollsmose in Odense and parts of Nørrebro in Copenhagen are places where it can be difficult to patrol the police. Does that not give the Minister cause for concern?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141927	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406141929	For the sake of good order, I should like to point out that, in answering this question, the National Police also state that special measures must be taken, in relation to certain residential areas, on an occasional or occasional basis in several police circles. to secure the police against assault. Actually, that's what it is, sir. Claus Oxfelt refers to in his statement. There should be no doubt whatsoever that the police and other authorities should be able to do their job all over the country without being subjected to harassment or abuse. I think I touched on a question here for a few Question Times ago and that is why we have been working for a long time with a respect package which will be launched in a short space of time. Among other things, it must: I would like to point out to the honourable Member that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406142026	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406142028	We are also pleased about this, and I also listened to the Minister's reply to the previous question. But that is a little worrying because, as I heard from the police union Claus Oxfelt, he did not interpret it in the same way as the answer I also refer to, to question 347, that is to say, that the police union thinks it happens occasionally. He said on the television that you can't drive into those areas if you're only two cops in one patrol car, but that you can only drive in there when you have a little more backup. So there is a slightly greater concern in the Police Union than that expressed in the answer given by the National Police. I would like the Minister to clarify a little whether he is listening to the fact that the police union is actually a little more concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406142121	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406142122	What I think is the essence of this is that, although there may be nuance differences between Claus Oxfelt's and the Reichspolice's replies, Claus Oxfelt doesn't answer questions like that, but there may be nuances in the views. I think that is what we need to concentrate on. Is it an acceptable state or not? It is not, and that is why a police agreement has been reached on a strong strengthening of the police force, where, among other things, we have reached agreement. With the help of the Danish People's Party, the police will receive 2 billion. kr. culminating in 2019, many newly trained police officers and a strengthening of police analytical tools and other tools, which include: We must also ensure that special efforts are made in these places. This is a challenge which the government is quite familiar with and which we are also actively addressing. What is then the challenge right now is the discussion I have had here today during Question Time, namely that Denmark currently has 10,600 police officers and that we are under pressure from outside conditions, on the one hand, terrorism and on the other hand, border controls, which means that resources are not quite sufficient. We are dealing with this, and we are doing so in relation to the vulnerable residential areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406142237	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406142238	Now we have had border controls for 12-14 weeks and, as the Minister himself mentioned in an earlier question, this has escalated since the 1990s. More residential areas have been added. I mentioned three large residential areas that we are familiar with, but Motalavej in Korsør and Ringparken in Slagelse are also some of the areas that are being mentioned here. It is like a slippery slope that we see more and more places, and we are also worried about the citizens who live in these areas. Are there times when the police don't drive in like they should because they're not more than one patrol car and two cops?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406142316	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406142318	So what the police are saying in this context is that there are several police circles where there are apartment or temporary residential areas to ensure that extra police are present. That is the reality. But the message I get is that it handles the police so far. But it is quite right, as it is said, that this is a long-term escalation, which we have seen and all the more important is this respect package, and the action against juvenile delinquency that we agreed on, combined with action against bicker gang crime and socially vulnerable residential areas. It is clearly one of the government's priorities that the overall effort should result in us seeing significantly less of it in the future when the police settlement is fully implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406142412	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406142414	Now, somewhere in the answer to question 347, which is a very long answer, it is clear that the National Police would like to see more local police. They can better handle the tasks out there when local cops are deployed. Can the Minister lift a little bit of the veil as to whether you are looking at setting up more local police stations with local police officers in connection with this package he is talking about or in the police settlement, which you sort of cut off at the previous police settlement, where you centralised a little more, so that you go a little the other way now and make a little more near police stations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160406142450	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406142452	I do not want to say anything square about that, but what I can say is that it is quite right that, for example, The experience gained from Nørrebro, with local patrol police who knew the conditions, has given a different tonality and other opportunities to get things done. And it is clear that this is, of course, part of the consideration of what to do specifically about some of the areas • of course it does so and especially in a situation like now, where we train many more police officers and where we should have the strongest police force Denmark has had, at least in the time that Mrs Susanne Eilersen and I have been here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406142528	Then there are no more questions today, and I would like to thank both ministers and questioners for their work in the service of the people's regime today. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160406142542	There's nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Friday 8 April 2016 at 10:00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
