ParlaMint-DK_20161014100009	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 12 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on equal opportunities for assistance in crisis situations for men and women). Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 13 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the prohibition of the special treatment of minorities in public institutions). Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. 14 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution setting up a committee of experts to improve economic models). Søren Espersen (DF) and others: Question No. 6 (About the government's value policy with a focus on immigration). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Foreign Affairs has informed me that, pursuant to Rule 19 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, he wishes to give the Danish Parliament a written statement on the cooperation in the Arctic. Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday 25 October 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014100122	The debate is open. This is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014100138	After all, globalisation is taking place: more and more people are getting married across national borders. That is what is happening, and it is perhaps not so gratifying that more and more people are being divorced across national borders. One thing somehow follows the other. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party think it is quite appropriate to have better and better legislation and cooperation and rules, for example. concerns the recovery of child support across national borders, but of course also other forms of maintenance for family members. What we are discussing here today is, in fact, precisely that part of the Hague Convention which, incidentally, resembles other international agreements, of which Denmark is a part, in that area. The aim of the Convention is to be able to effectively recover child support and other forms of maintenance for family members across participating countries. Cooperation arrangements are being established between the countries' authorities and, as I said, Denmark is part of a series of other conventions in this area. But there's something we're not part of. I cannot help mentioning that from this platform in connection with this proposal. These are the things that were involved in the Europol vote, which means that we have more difficulty dealing with divorces across national borders than we would have had if we had got that part of the convention. I am very sorry about this, because I think it puts children in particular situations that we could have avoided with the other model. But we don't have to be sorry about that right now. Now we must welcome the fact that we are, however, joining this in order to make it easier for families across national borders. We can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014100322	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014100330	Thank you very much for that, President. In the Danish People's Party we support an extended and complementary international cooperation to recover child support and the parents' obligation to support their children. Parental responsibility is something that weighs heavily among us in the Danish People's Party. We think it is a good thing that better cooperation can now be achieved with this proposal. When you put a child in the world, when you are a part of it, you are also part of the subsequent responsibility, including financial responsibility. You have to take that part too. Of course, it should be considered when it comes to exchanging personal information such as the address and financial circumstances of the person responsible for payment, but in this case the best interests of the child must prevail. However, we are less enthusiastic about the fact that Denmark may be forced to take a case and, as it looks now, it is not really possible to reject it. Some exceptions have been mentioned as basic legal principles, i.e. that they must not conflict with the rule of law in Denmark. But it is said that it is a narrow area. You can read it in such a way that there is no possibility of rejecting any cases. We would therefore ask the Minister to confirm or deny whether it is possible to reject a case. That the contribution can be higher than it is in Denmark is not something we clap so much in our hands over. The question then is whether it is a thoughtful situation or whether there really are countries that have higher contributions than we have in Denmark. That is why we think it would be nice to know whether this is actually a real risk. The Court of Justice's Board of Justice points out in their hearing that there must be an increased approach to cases in the courts, but in view of the number of cases, it must be a limited number. We propose that it be evaluated here and followed up on whether there has been a marked increase in the number of cases after a while, and then we can consider what might have to be done if that is the case. With those words, we can accept the recommendation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014100528	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014100534	Like the two previous rapporteurs, the Left also supports the draft law. We support the aim of the bill to strengthen the recovery of maintenance across national borders. And we support making it easier to recover contributions abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014100557	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014100606	I do not want to drag the negotiations any further than is necessary, although one might be a little worried that things are going so fast. Of course, the Enhedslisten can also support the proposal. As the previous speakers have explained, it is an intergovernmental agreement, a convention that it makes sense to endorse. It is similar to many others in this area, and that means that we have coordinated cooperation with other countries on what to do when people marry across borders and also get divorced again and there will be some economic conditions that need to be clarified. So it's only smart and smart and good.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014100649	Thank you. Then it's mr. Danny K. Malkowski, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014100658	In the Liberal Alliance, of course, we also think that a parent has an obligation to support his child, regardless of whether he lives in the same country as the child. It therefore seems quite reasonable to have international binding cooperation to ensure that child support is paid across borders. On the other hand, when we look at the consultation answers, we become a little concerned when we see the consultation answer from the Association Dad, where a legal situation is described, where there are no restrictions on what a foreign authority can impose on a Dane for enforcement in Denmark. Perhaps it would mostly be a theoretical problem if it were a cooperation with countries similar to Denmark. For example, it happened. in the European Union, perhaps there was little reason to be concerned. However, when you read from the draft law that these are also non-EU countries, it seems a little off. It can be read from the consultation note that it cannot be refused to enforce decisions which contain contributions which are substantially higher than under Danish law. It seems a bit problematic to leave it to the authorities in countries that are not at all similar to Denmark to decide how much money should be collected from Danes without any redress in Denmark. We would therefore very much like to delve deeper into the position of Danes in committee in the event of accession to this cooperation, and our position on the proposal therefore depends on satisfactory answers to the issues raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014100812	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014100821	As has been pointed out, we are marrying across Europe and the world, and that is why we would also like to support the legislation that ensures that we know what to do when we get a cross-separate, so the Alternative backs up this law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014100837	Thank you. Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014100842	The Radical Left would also very much like to endorse the bill and take the opportunity to stress that this is a good example of the usefulness, I would almost say the necessity, of international cooperation. Here it is about financial differences between divorced persons. It may be implemented, if necessary, by other Member States of the Hague Convention. After all, it is wonderful that the entire Folketing can join it, including the Enhedslisten, even though it is international cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014100916	Then it is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014100925	In the SF, we also fully support the entry into force of the Hague Convention for Denmark. As mentioned earlier, the Convention provides for cooperation on the international recovery of child support and other forms of maintenance for family members. It is always important that Denmark is included in conventions and international agreements which can strengthen legal certainty for the individual citizen and, above all, as in this case, the families involved. In December of last year, when we recommended that the Danes vote in favour of changing the legal reservation into an opt-in system, it was among other things. in view of the fact that a yes would mean that Denmark is covered by the maintenance obligation regulation in the EU, the aim of which is to simplify and streamline the handling of cross-border maintenance cases. Today, Denmark has only a parallel agreement on parts of the regulation. As is also noted in the draft law, the EU has already acceded to the Hague Convention, but because of the Danish legal reservation, Denmark is not directly associated here either, and therefore we in the Folketing must now deal with the matter so that Denmark can, on a general international basis, be associated with the Convention. In the SF, of course, we believe that it makes sense to equate the rights of Danish citizens with the rights of citizens in the other EU countries. The purpose of the Convention is to ensure that children's contributions can be recovered effectively, legally and in cooperation with the central authorities of the States which have acceded to the Convention. It is good and positive for Danish citizens and families that possible cross-border conflicts on child support or other forms of maintenance can be done effectively and in trusting and legitimate cooperation between the authorities of the States which have acceded to the Convention. In other words, we are in favour of the proposal and look forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014101119	Thank you. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014101127	Thank you. We can also support the bill. This would mean that Denmark would accede to the 2007 Hague Convention. The aim of the Convention, as has been mentioned, is to ensure the effective recovery of child support and other forms of maintenance for family members through cooperation between the authorities of the countries which have acceded to the Convention. In particular, the Hague Convention will strengthen the possibilities for international enforcement, create clear rules for the free process and exchange of information for enforcement purposes. In situations where parents move apart and even settle in different countries, the most important consideration is, of course, the care of the children's best interests. A dispute over child support or maintenance, especially if parents live in different countries, can cause anxiety or insecurity and insecurity. At the same time, we know that it is precisely disputes over contributions that create the most conflict in connection, for example, with the United States. divorce. That is why I and we think it is important to ensure effective rules, first and foremost for the sake of the situation of children, so that uncertainty is not allowed to grow into frustration, which can develop into disputes between parents. In general terms, it must be in everyone's interest to get matters settled quickly by the authorities in the interests of donors and recipients of contributions, and that is why we support L 7.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014101249	Thank you. Then it's the Social Affairs and Interior Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014101258	I would like to thank the whole range of rapporteurs, first of all for the general rather positive reception of the draft law and the initial discussions we have now had in this Chamber today. I agree that there will be questions which we can now have clarified in committee, but I will at least confirm here that it is true that the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur also mentioned that a decision on contributions will have to be enforced as a starting point, even if it is significantly higher than what would have been laid down under the Danish rules on contributions. In this discussion one must also look at what it is that the contribution goes to the entertainment contribution, but the maintenance allowance, although it may probably be very entertaining in relation to the children, but it is clear that we also need to go into the committee's proceedings in more detail. For the overall purpose of the draft law, as several have also mentioned, is precisely to strengthen the recovery of maintenance across national borders, and with this proposal we support and complement the already existing cooperation in this area. So I expect that exactly with this bill we will make it easier to recover contributions abroad. But it is clear that we need to have answers to any questions that may be raised, and we will do so during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014101426	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014101444	The debate is open, and this is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014101502	Thank you. It is not often that one gets excited about something called supervision, but exactly the social inspectorate is actually one of the things that I think is a huge achievement, and when I think it is, it is because, when dealing with social policy, one finds out quite quickly that it is approx. 80% I usually say that it is 80-20, and all those who sit in this Chamber know that when I say that, I mean the municipalities that can find out, and those who cannot, the institutions that can find out, and those who cannot, or the foster families who can find out, and those who cannot. Virtually no matter what you are dealing with in the social field, it is the case that the lion's share of the people who are dealing with the most vulnerable citizens and children in our society is lifting a huge task and making life very much better for the people they are dealing with. And then there is just a part that doesn't do it. It may be municipalities, it may be administrations, it may be institutions, and it may be individuals and it may not carry out the task on the basis of what was the purpose of the legislation that we have decided on here in the Folketing, which is of course intended to provide people who, for one reason or another, in periods of their lives need help and support. What, then, is the Social Protection Agency supposed to do, and where is the enthusiasm? Yes, it is that the Social Protection Agency must make sure that those who are not and it is not just a matter of coming as an authority and beating them in the head and saying that you are not doing well enough here, but that you have actually done a supervision which has both authority responsibility and which can therefore go in and say that here the conditions are so scandalous that you close the door immediately you close and shut off, you no longer have to exist it is one variation, one extreme of the responsibility of the authority, and that we can say that here there are simply some things that are not working optimally, and we know that there are other institutions or other municipalities that are doing better, so we would like to take hold of them and help them to do it in the way that you do best in other places. So it is a form that is both about the responsibility of the authorities, but also about the dialogue that I think is extremely important for us to be able to provide the best possible help in an area where there is no need to just open and close all the time, but where there is a need for a stable framework and then, of course, the upgrading that needs to be done when things are better elsewhere, because better methods have been found. So what are we doing with the legislation here today? Yes, what we are doing is that we go in and give this supervision a review after it has now worked since 2014, and there is, of course, as there is always in relation to legislation, some adjustments, and those corrections we have discussed thoroughly in the circle of people who are sitting here today, and of course they can join the Social Democracy. It is primarily a question of offerings which are essentially similar to those currently covered by the Social Protection Agency should also be subject to supervision in the future, and this is, of course, based on a desire to spread it out and that the quality boost that we believe lies in having social oversight should include as many as possible. Then we will strengthen the legal certainty of private offers. For it is the case that if you get a remark from the Social Protection Agency, it is, by its very nature, relatively serious, and it should not be so unless it is, in fact, because you want to close the place in question, because then you just have to close it, and it can be that if an remark is not of the serious nature and then you try to get it checked by the Ankestyrelsen, in the intervening period, which can go where the complaint is pending, it can actually destroy the whole of the financial foundations of an otherwise fantastic good social offer, which has only received remarks on something that should not have the effect at all on the place. What we have to bear in mind is that we do not need to feel sorry for them, or that is something I think one can afford to have because it is not so much for either the authorities or for the institution. But it is for the benefit of the citizens who need that help and support on the offer in question. There, when we have supervisory authorities and when we make decisions, we must take very seriously the fact that those citizens do not need to be moved from one place to the next place and to the next place, and therefore there must be a connection between how serious a remark it is and then the consequence it has for that offer, and we have come closer to that here. Then we have opened the door to free vocational schools, afterschools and free primary schools being subject to supervision only if they have more than eight seats, and when we place that limit, it is simply because it seems heavy and bureaucratic and foolish and does not live up to what was actually intended by the Social Inspectorate if a post-school, for example, were to be completed. Only one student has been accepted and then, at institutional level, must be subject to the same supervision as is required in institutions dealing only with full-time children. So the person-oriented supervision is still intact with the legislation we are getting here, but we are removing what is the supervision of the whole institution, which is not meaningful, since, for example, the post-school has no one other than one student placed. The last thing we have done is that the draft law allows those who wish to have their anonymity removed in whole or in part in the case of appeals to the Social Protection Agency to obtain it, and that is in the light of their own wishes. All in all, we believe that these are some very good adjustments to social supervision. This makes me feel extremely nerdy when I get excited about it, but I think it is a big boost to the social area that we have gone down this road. So we can back the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014102022	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Karin Nødgaard, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014102031	It was a lengthy process back in 2013 when we made the supervisory reform. Clearly there was a great need to strengthen supervision and I believe that today, with the reform, we have made a major step in the right direction in order to protect vulnerable citizens. There is no doubt that it takes time to implement such a law, but we also see today that with the five supervisory units that were established, we have made a very good solution. When we adopted the law, there was agreement that it should be followed up, and we did so earlier this year when we made the vote agreement on the reform of social oversight. And today it's this bill that relates to that deal. Fortunately, it is not very substantial changes or measures that need to be decided. It turns out that we actually made a good law originally. However, it is more a question of clarification and also improvements for all the parties involved, and I think that is important to make that clear. When reform of the area was needed at the time, it was because we could see that there was not enough focus on ensuring proper conditions for those who were placed. The fact is that, unfortunately, we still experience that, for one reason or another, not all people have good living conditions and a secure environment to grow up in and live in. That is why society must step in and help. And with society, of course, I am thinking primarily of us as legislators and of the people who, among other things, are. in the municipalities are set to manage the legislation. Care must be taken to ensure that these vulnerable citizens have the best possible conditions for a better life and with a starting point where it is an increase in the quality of life and respect for the individual that must be the highest on the agenda. Unfortunately, before we made supervisory reform, it turned out that there had been significant shortcomings in the area of supervision of resident citizens. What can be done from each foundation to improve conditions is to show the will and action to change the condition. The law, which has now worked for a few years, has helped to make a difference not only for the people who are placed today, but it will also do so for the people whom we unfortunately know will be placed in the future, because placement outside our own home is probably not something we can avoid. But when it comes to this, there must be a guarantee that the people involved are offered the best possible conditions. Often, it is citizens who have already been abandoned and often up to several times by those who should actually be the ones who looked after them best. When that happens, they should not be subjected to further failure by the authorities and by the institutions on which they are placed. When the supervisory reform was made, we in the contract circle were very concerned about getting the whole area through, so there would be noticeable and visible improvements, but we also agreed to make further steps if necessary afterwards. And we owe this to those citizens who are at risk and who have experienced these neglects and often those who have been massive. The previous rapporteur mentioned several of the elements, so of course I do not want to spend time on them now, but I would like to make it clear that for the Danish People's Party it is important that several of the wishes and comments that have been made since we adopted the law and that this has been included in the supervisory area in one way or another. For the Danish People's Party, it is important that the offers which can be compared in substance with those which are currently covered by the Social Protection Agency should also be subject to supervision. It is also important to ensure the legal certainty of private offers and that, when we discuss this with the economy of offers, we have ensured that it is sustainable and transparent and also transparent, and that we have also ensured the necessary quality. Having the five social oversights for us in the Danish People's Party is a very good model, because in this way we have created a uniformity of supervision so that they can continue to be in dialogue about supervisory matters and the obligations of supervision, and work with the constant involvement of new knowledge and the use of experience gained. That must happen today, but it must also happen in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014102446	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014102453	Thank you, President. The Left supports the draft law and does so on the same grounds as those put forward by the two previous speakers. We support the objective of promoting the efficiency and quality of the social inspectorate, but it is also important for the Left that the legislation in force in the future should be more appropriate and more targeted. Finally, as the two previous speakers have also said, it is important for the Left to ensure the legal certainty of private offers by means of the bill, by giving suspensive effect to the decisions of the Social Protection Agency on termination of approval.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014102546	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014102557	As several of the previous rapporteurs have said, this proposal for a directive is, after all, about social supervision, and I am, in fact, very much in agreement with the Social Democrats' rapporteur that it is worth exciting that we had the supervision back in 2012-13 and that we did so thoroughly that the review we are now facing is so relatively limited. These are some minor adjustments, as others have said, namely that all offers of accommodation are included, for example. so that it is not so crucial which it is not for the residents whether they fall under the Service Act or they are tenants and thus the General Housing Act. As a resident, as a person who needs help and support in one way or another, it does not really matter. After all, we still have to make sure that there is proper supervision that their relationship is as they should be. In the same way, I also think it is worth emphasising that the remarks to be made, which must, of course, be given only a few examples of the fact that, in particular, some less private-run housing offers, which, because of a remark and a complaint pending in the Ankestyrelsen, have become so economical that their livelihoods were threatened, even though the remark was not at all at a level where the offer should be closed. I am glad that we have been corrected. After all, the purpose of the social services is to ensure and that is why we made them • that we could have real and independent supervision of the quality, of the economy, of the conditions of some of the most vulnerable groups of citizens who are in our society, of citizens who cannot take care of themselves and who need the community. We had some stories where it turned out that some of the people who really cannot tolerate more failures had actually been let down to a very unpleasant degree and in a way that should not happen in our welfare societies. That is why it was so important that we now have supervision, which has proper resources, which are real resources, we have got a whistleblower scheme, but also that it is independent, so that it is not the municipalities that are checking themselves, especially at a time when the municipal funds are as pressured as they are, and, incidentally, also a few years ago, because of course it is not going to happen that the municipalities are watching themselves and can then bend the rules or disregard things, because it does not fit into a municipal budget. So, in general, I think this is an example of when the cooperative popular government works best. All the parties were there when we started, and all the parties are still gone, and we listen to each other, and we correct when needed, and we listen to the organisations and the consultation responses. I just think we should keep doing that. It's a really good style in this area, and we can really be proud of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014102925	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Danny K. Malkowski of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014102933	Thank you. I shall be very brief and will not review all the elements of this proposal again, since the previous rapporteurs have done so well. I should just like to point out that there are a number of minor and sensible adjustments to a common agreement, and of course we can fully support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014102948	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014103002	We in the Ministry of Social Affairs have spent a number of meetings adjusting the tasks of the Social Inspectorate and working with the background of some years of practice. It always makes sense to adjust legislation in relation to the problems that arise when the law meets reality. This has been a good course, which has ended up with legislation that the parties have advocated in a joint vote agreement, which, fortunately, happens often in the Committee on Social Affairs. Good rapporteurs have already listed most of the individual parts of the legislation, so I shall save the Chamber and the viewers a few things for which we are particularly pleased in the Alternative and for which we have been involved: the draft law has the aim of ensuring the legal certainty of private offers, by granting suspension effect to the decisions of the Social Protection Agency on termination of approval, unless there are special circumstances, including the danger of the well-being or health of residents, which requires the immediate implementation of the decision. So you will have the opportunity to continue until the case has been tried by the Ankestyrelsen. Then we also like to work with this little limit. It is specified in the Supervisory Act that supervision may issue injunctions only when necessary to ensure that tenders continue to meet the conditions for approval. We heard at one point a concerned representative of the LOS, who mentioned some of these trivial remarks; e.g. there was a place that had had its Christmas decoration set up too soon. It is clear that it seems very, very innocent, but if it gives annotation on the Offer Portal, it may actually mean that some opt out of the place. So we're also really happy with this little limit. One of the things that has our great attention, but which did not come into the negotiations, is the possibility of comparing the prices of the various offers across the board, but I understand from the Minister that this will come up in a later separate debate. I have looked through 19 pages of consultation notes where there are some comments, but I think the Ministry is able to counter them all and adjust in a sensible way. So we're happy, and that's why the alternative looks at this legislation positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014103208	Thank you. Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014103216	Thank you. We have had a very good process about which I had almost said the prospect of social supervision legislation, and it has been done relatively early, i.e. only two years after the law on social supervision was put into effect. I think that was a very good idea, because then the things that might not work out quite well cannot get stuck and become a habit or a way of doing it and are then difficult to change. So I would like to sign for that, and I would also like to sign for the fact that we, together with the rapporteurs of the other parties, were able to conclude that agreement. It is quite important in such areas that there is broad political consensus on it. An exception has been made because we have had to recognise that post-schools and free vocational schools and free basic schools with boarding departments have quite a lot of expense and difficulty if they are to carry out a social supervision relationship, if that is to say, when they also have educational supervision. But that only applies when they have up to 8 seats with children placed. It is also important for me to mention that the decisions of the Social Protection Agency that a private offer may be closed have had suspensory effect. That's logical, you should think. It is strange that we have not thought of this before, because if you charge such a decision to the Ankestyrelsen, there will be some time, with a procedure, and that means that there is a closed institution which can be difficult to open up again if the Ankestyrelsen opposes the decision of the Social Inspectorate, because then you have not had any insight into that area during that period. It goes without saying that if these are very special circumstances which one cannot accept continue in any way, even if complaints are made to the Ankestyrelsen, one must close the place, but it is therefore a decision in the individual case, i.e. whether the suspensive effect can be used. Finally, there will be supervision of the economy, which I also think is very important. We say that the Social Protection Agency must look for the economy to be actually sustainable and that offers can have the necessary quality in view of the economy that is present and, finally, there must be transparency in the economy. It has been a strong wish, among other things. from the Radical Left, because we have the impression that private offers and municipal offers are economically difficult to compare in terms of the way in which the economy is made up. We hope so, and we will follow that closely. Overall, it is a very good clarification and a very good review that has been of the legislation on social supervision so far, so we are voting in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014103508	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014103515	I would like to start by thanking you for your good cooperation, both in relation to when supervisory reform was designed for the first time, but also in the further reading now that we have adjusted it, because when we do such a comprehensive reform, there will also be some child diseases, and it is very wise and sensible to deal with them relatively quickly and to include the comments and experiences that various parties have had with the reform after it has entered into force. So I would just like to sign for a thorough and good cooperation on that reform. I also think it is very important to say that the most important thing about this reform is to ensure the quality of the social services that our citizens must have. That is the overall purpose. That is why we have made it, and if it has a lot of consequences that do not fulfil that purpose, it is that we have to adjust it. One of the things I would like to highlight here is that social services should now also include housing offers. As has been said before, it is rather illogical that because you have a lease, there is not the same supervision as if you are placed in an institution. It is, of course, the treatment effort that is interesting, and hence not what one's residence relationship is like that. The second is the question of free post-schools, where we can only agree that we have to conduct roughly the same supervision twice when there are relatively few seats. Then there is the change in the whistleblower system, and it is always a little vulnerable when you start to change something like that, but I really think it makes very good sense that you have the opportunity to remove anonymity completely or in part, and that you can decide for yourself how anonymous you want to be, because it can also be an advantage sometimes that you actually stand by some of the criticisms you might have. But I also believe that this must of course be done on the basis of informed consent, so that we know what the consequences of lifting anonymity can be. Then I am pleased that there is a suspensive effect, because, as I said at the outset, the aim of social supervision is to ensure quality. The primary purpose is not to close social offers. It is, of course, in very, very few cases that it is necessary and there must of course also be that possibility, but it must not be the case that one of the unintended effects of supervision actually means that there are some good offers that, due to minor errors, are in fact in danger of closing. That is why we are pleased that we have had suspensive effect as a general rule, but that we still have the exception that states that the problems in one place are serious enough, there is no longer any suspensive effect. I would also like to say that the simplification of the supervision of the economy of the offers is also essential, because what we should also have as a headline is that it is the quality of the offer, and that is whether the economy supports the quality of the offer, and that is what we are monitoring. It must be a monitoring system that monitors whether the economy is stable, whether it is transparent and whether it is sustainable in the long term. That must be the primary focus. Finally, I would like to say that some of what we have also discussed very much, and which I think is essential, is that when the aim is to promote quality, supervision should also be dialogue-based, that is, that it is not just verification visits. This means that with regard to any remarks you may have, supervision also has a role to play in helping individual social services to correct a better course or put some things on which to improve quality. So again, we support the changes we have made and thank you for good cooperation in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014103951	Thank you. The last rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Anders Johansson, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014103958	Thank you. When you get that far down the line of speeches, it can be really hard to contribute something new. I think most of what has been said by the previous rapporteurs, and I would really just like to thank you for the cooperation that has taken place on the legislative proposal and just say that we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014104012	Thank you. Then it's the Social Affairs and Interior Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014104019	It is certainly appropriate to sign for the immensely positive reception in this Chamber today. In particular, of course, I am pleased that so many rapporteurs also mention the whole origin, the importance of the creation and indeed the very, very constructive process we have had with these adjustments. Because it is not just a minister and rapporteurs who are in a debate here, and therefore I am very, very grateful that praises are also given to the professionals involved in such a process. Of course, it is professionals in the Ministry, but it is certainly also the employees of the social services and all the other actors that you can see have contributed actively. This can be seen from the consultation answers, and they have certainly also been very, very constructive throughout this evaluation. So I very, very much agree that here we have together done something good, done something that really matters in the Danish social landscape in relation to how the institutions work. Yes, it is a legislative proposal which implements the voting agreement that we concluded with all of the parties of the Folketing back before the summer recess. It is quite right to say that this is not a legislative proposal which fundamentally alters the social oversight that has been established. Fortunately, not because it was something good that was established. That is why the purpose of precisely this bill is to promote the quality of social oversight, to promote efficiency and to make these adjustments to the regulatory framework. All the elements that are in this package have been mentioned. Whether you have a private rental contract or if you are in a settlement offer under the Service Act, we equate. Of course there has to be supervision here. Of course, there is also the whole simplification in relation to whether a post-secondary school has eight or fewer places. Of course, in this context we should not experience double supervision, because the post-schools also have their own supervision as schools, and the person-oriented supervision continues to be there. Then there is the matter of strengthening citizens' legal certainty in terms of consent, in terms of abolishing anonymity, if you turn to social oversight about some worrying matters. I think that is an important element on which we had good discussions. We also strengthen the legal certainty of private offers, as several have mentioned, because the starting point will be that complaints about termination of approval will be given suspensory effect. So, of course, I welcome the positive reception and, of course, I am available to answer any questions that may arise during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014104328	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Affairs and, if no one objects, consider it adopted. It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014104344	The debate is open. And this is sir. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014104406	Thank you. The bill here is a small mixed rum ball of all sorts of different things, which the President also read out. There are different laws that need to be changed, but the title and content are about how we trim our rules in terms of having a well-functioning democracy. And it is quite relevant to do so; we do so on a regular basis here in the Folketing. In my preparation, I tried to skim the material to see what has been done in recent years, and there are, as such, many different small areas where we constantly modernise, trim and ensure that democracy and the election process follow with time. So I think it is wise of the Minister to continue this work. What, then, is the content about? Among the various initiatives are: proposals for help from a personal helper to vote. There are new and perhaps more clear and sensible rules for the suspension of election posters. I think we must expect that when the elections are held, there will once again be press stories throughout Denmark that some people break the rules and get press stories out of it. I think that is such a tradition that apparently continues to be in Denmark, even though it is rather trivial. Either way, we need some decent rules that most of us should follow. There are proposals for rules on when municipalities can destroy electoral material, so that it can be used for, among other things. research. There are proposals that it should be possible for people with Danish citizenship to vote in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland to, for example, the European Parliament, and then the provisions of the electoral law will also be extended. By far, the vast majority of these proposals are sensible. These are small important steps that strengthen our democracy. What I want to focus on, and what we in the Social Democratic Party have focused on in our debate on this, is the part of the proposal that is about help from a personal helper to vote. It is a wish that has been long with various Danish disability organisations, and I must say that I fully understand the intention, but there is also reason to really cultivate the detail here. I know there was a resolution earlier, but now we have a legislative proposal where we can dive into detail and find out that it is often there that the devil lives, and we must be absolutely sure that such a system cannot be abused. When I read the proposal here, I do not think that it is quite clear at this stage who can use such help, and when we read the answers given to Mrs Adsbøl last year, I do not think it is clear how we are going to define it here either. To put it as it is, I can be nervous that you can use all sorts of reasons for having a personal helper • a spouse or someone else to help understand the election procedure and put the intersection. We have a very basic premise in Denmark that says: Only you decide, and only you know where it is crossed. It is absolutely essential that we do not come to the back door to open up the possibility of different forms of social control or anything else being carried out in the voting box. So in the further work I will announce that we will drill this whole thing out and ensure that, with regard to this element of the otherwise sensible legislative proposal, we do not open up anything that would be a slip on the democratic principles of ticking, and that is done on the basis of one's own conscience and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014104830	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014104842	Thank you. If anyone is wondering why I am here and not the municipal rapporteur, I can say that it is because the Danish People's Party tabled B 32 which concerned people with disabilities. And in the Danish People's Party we are very pleased that in the Danish Parliament there was broad support for the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution. Maybe the Minister will also listen to my speech, thanks to which the government should propose amendments to the electoral laws for parliamentary, regional and local elections and elections for the European Parliament, so that people with a disability could be allowed to vote with the help they themselves wanted and that special or electronic aids should be provided in the voting box which would make it easier for people with a disability to vote. All the parties in the Folketing voted in favour of this, and that is why we are standing here today and discussing the proposal from the government. It may seem intimidating to the individual choose that there must always be an authority person inside the voting box when the voter needs help. Among other things, it has. Danish Blind Society explained. Experience with the rules has also shown that a number of voters do not want an official present. On the basis of this proposal, the electorate must expressly state that he or she only wants the help of the personally appointed helper. And there have been a number of positive consultation responses to this where there is great support, among others. from Dansk Blindsamfund, Danske Senierer og Danske Handicaporganisationer. Then there has been a hearing from the Left, as the Left has sent a hearing answer to their own bill, that is, the Left Land Organisation. And then it says that the Left is concerned about the abuse of the system of relatively free inclusion of another person in the vote itself. The concern is that there will be a much greater possibility of influencing the vote. So I would like the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior to clarify this, because after all, it is a Left Secretary who has tabled this bill. So that's something I was really puzzled about. The issue of giving increased powers to the Minister, which is also part of this bill, is something that I want to keep an eye on, because I want to make sure that this does not mean a carte blanche to the Minister, because the Minister can then suddenly decide that in future elections must be digital, or other things. In relation to the part relating to the notice, I expect that we will have it for review, including the consultation answers received, which will be available on that. However, this draft law has also put in other things, including the extension of the right to vote in European elections and also referendums. And the draft law will also bring the electoral rules into line with the principle of equal treatment in EU law, so that people with Danish citizenship, when moving to the Faroe Islands or Greenland, can retain their right to vote to the European Parliament to the extent that they would be able to do so by moving abroad. The draft law also introduces changes to the rules on the starting date for the suspension of election posters, so that elections may not be suspended until the elections have been formally held. That part will certainly present some challenges, but at least now it is also in the law. To the part about the Minister's authorisation, I will ask follow-up questions in the committee work so that we can have the authority fully established, also in relation to what the Minister has put forward here, because there the Minister has written a letter of assistance, and that part is also something I want to take into account in the further work of the committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014105322	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014105328	Intentions to improve the possibilities for voters with special needs to be more able to vote, I think we all support. On behalf of the Left, I agree with the draft law and can do so with the comments made by the two previous rapporteurs. I think the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Magnus Heunicke, very rightly points out that this isn't easy. One can have good intentions, but one must also ensure that the intentions of the individual choose, in relation to what the electorate wants to vote for, are also implemented in accordance with the draft law's comments that the electorate can point to a helper himself. That is also the point made by the Left National Organization in Søllerød as the starting point for their consultation proposals. And I think that the content of this is very much in line with the challenge that Mr. Magnus Heunicke points out. Of course, we must be aware of this when we all have the intention that as many people as possible should be able to vote despite disability, whether that be one or the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014105508	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014105516	This bill translates motion for a resolution No. B 32 and, in addition, some minor but also sensible amendments to the electoral law. The implementation of B 32 makes it possible, as most other rapporteurs have talked about from up here, to provide aids for people with disabilities and then to use a helper of their own choice for voting. This, of course, brings great joy, among other things. the disability organisations. It does, too, in the Enhedslisten. It is a matter that we have been fighting for for a very, very long time because we know how much it means for people with disabilities who need help to cast their vote, that they can be allowed to get help from the person they trust whom they have chosen. And basically it's about respecting people with disabilities as being so much able, of course even if they have a disability, to be able to make such decisions themselves. That is why it is with pleasure that we support this bill. In addition, the draft law contains a number of sensible amendments and clarifications. This applies to the preservation of the electoral rights of Danish citizens to the European Parliament, referendums if they move to the Faroe Islands or Greenland. It is also reasonable that the electoral law lays down rules for referendums, which are printed under a special law, so that the rules are in place. It is also good to clarify when posters may be suspended in connection with a parliamentary election, as the election discharge is now clearly defined as being the time when the Prime Minister publishes it. Perhaps we are a little confused there, because the Minister's speech says that this is the time when the elections have been formally held, and the comments state that the election has been formally held once the Queen has signed an open letter to the people about this election statement. Since the Queen does not have a real role in our democracy, it can be said that it is a step forward that we must be allowed to embark on all the campaigning and all the politically active people must plunge into the streets as soon as the election campaign has actually taken place. Oh! In addition to this, there are a number of other minor but excellent clarifications ■ clarification of the use and destruction of election documents for research and statistics, clarification of the possibilities for municipal councils to postpone some later deadlines in relation to letter voting, etc. It is a bit a mixed country trade, but all in all a very fine and excellent piece of work that Enhedslisten can support. And, yes, in particular, we will celebrate that people with disabilities are allowed to choose their own helper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014105820	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Merete Riisager, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014105827	Thank you. L 9 is a very sensible little bill. It is, after all, the implementation of motion for a resolution No. B-32 adopted unanimously earlier this year. As in the spring, we in the Liberal Alliance believe that there is a need for modernisation and improvement of the electoral law for the benefit of our disabled fellow citizens. It is central to the Liberal Alliance that this bill envisages that citizens who need help in voting will in future be able to decide for themselves whether voting aid alone should be provided by a person appointed by the citizen personally, that is, without the involvement of an official. In our view, this increases the individual's personal freedom, as well as the proposal is in line with several disability policy interest groups who have also expressed a need for this. That is why the Liberal Alliance can, of course, support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014105922	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014105930	The alternative looks positively at this small collection of proposals, which goes by the name L 9. This is a slightly mixed country trade, resulting from EU judgments, resulting in resolutions and minor legislative proposals. This is among other things. a nice reunion with the motion for a resolution B 32, adopted on the initiative of the DF before the summer, which has resulted in people with special needs who need help to vote, being able to take their own helper into the box and use a helper they have chosen instead of the one made available by the authorities. There has then been some concern as to whether the helper affects the person with special needs who needs help. That is a fair concern, but it is not a concern that we share so much with us in the alternative. We trust that people who choose to go into the voting box to help someone with special needs to carry out their democratic work will make sense. It will often be the husband or the wife, and I believe that if you have been married to your spouse for 30 years and she will affect you, has she not already done so? It is also proposed that the Minister for the Interior should be able to lay down rules for the provision of voting aids. I think that is sensible to follow closely. I also note that disability organisations are really, really happy with this legislation in their consultation response. Then there are other suggestions. I'm not going to mention them all at all, but just one. We also think that the proposal, which requires parties to start at the same time as posters are suspended, is very good. It is true that there is some doubt as to how this should be interpreted, and it may be that I am wrong, but as far as I can see, this means that we must not start the suspension at the announcement by the Prime Minister or as announced by royally open letter, but that we must start when the elections are formally held. As I interpret it, it means in practice that the whole field of parties can reach down to the starting field before the shot goes off. In general, we think that this is sensible legislation and we welcome this small collection of proposals in the next readings.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014110134	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014110144	As the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr. Andreas Steenberg, cannot be present, I will say what he would have said. The Radical Left has respect for the desire that we meet with many people with or without a disability, namely to experience the dignity that it is to be able to fend for themselves. After all, we have discussed in this Chamber in the early summer whether there could be more tools in the election room for people, for example. with a visual disability and whether people with disabilities must take their helper into the actual vote in the voting box to help with the vote. A large number of parties, including the Radical Left, wanted to meet those wishes, and we do so with this bill today. We're really happy about that. Finally, we also believe that there are many of our party members who are happy that they can hang election posters from 1 p.m. 12:00 in the middle of the day and not until 2:00 in the morning. 24, so we know they'll be able to get their night's sleep instead of hanging posters. Well, that makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014110255	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. Then it is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014110304	Thank you. In the SF, we voted in favour of the motion for a resolution that preceded the proposed legislative proposal, and we did so because we always support initiatives that can give people more equal opportunities, regardless of any disability or disability they may have. We share the ambition to promote equality for people with disabilities in connection with the electoral process and its availability, and we strongly support that part of the proposal. Increased accessibility and access to more aids can help voters with disabilities to be more independent of the help of others when they have to tick on election day. That must be the basic ambition, and we can only support that. Better use of AT when voting is therefore clearly something that we can support. However, as I also noted when we dealt with the motion for a resolution in the last session, there are also some dilemmas in this draft law which must be dealt with. People who, because of disability, need help when voting will have the opportunity to decide for themselves whether or not to give help by a self-chosen and personal helper, and it has a fundamental tension between two important principles that we must weigh and weigh in relation to each other when we have to deal with this proposal. On the one hand, there is the right of the electorate to self-determination and the freedom to be able to identify from whom one wants help when it comes to voting, whether it be a family member, a friend, a helper or someone else that one trusts. It is basically very important that you can do so. On the other hand, there is regard for public confidence in the electoral process and the electoral system as such. So it is not a question of having mistrust of the helper or distrust that the individual citizen can find a way of choosing the one who is going to help with the election procedure. These are some of the basic principles of secret elections that we have in our democracy, which are based on trust in the electoral process. Here, in the SF, we continue to believe that the protection of the secret ballot is essential to create confidence in the election process, and today people with disabilities already have the opportunity to choose to take someone they know into the ballot box, but at the same time there must be an election order. It is precisely to ensure that there are no errors in voting and to prevent others from influencing the electoral process. Then you could ask yourself what everything I'm saying means. Am I for or against? I have to say, then, that the most important thing is that the disability organisations, all those involved, recommend this proposal. It weighs the most heavily, so that is why we support it. But I also hope that, in the course of further discussion, and when we discuss it here in the Folketing, we can be aware of the dilemmas that exist in it, because it is not that simple. Furthermore, with regard to the other elements of the draft law concerning the extension of the electoral right to European elections and referenda, as well as changes to the rules governing the starting date for the suspension of electoral material, we can also support it. I can then personally think that it is a bit too bad that I cannot bake lemon crescents and serve them with coffee and beer at night, but it is such a personal tradition. Basically, I think it is right to change it. Overall, we are positive about the draft law and look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014110645	Thank you. Then it's the Social and Interior Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014110647	Thank you to the rapporteurs. It is fun to hear that a great many rapporteurs say that this is something that has been wanted for a long time. I agree with that. After all, I have had the pleasure of being Minister of Social Affairs and Interior in the former VK government, and back in 2009, I remember a horrible evening as a guest in 21 Sunday, when I was skinned for why the rules were so unfair as they were. And I had to sit there and defend something that I thought was very, very difficult to defend in relation to the fact that, as the visually impaired, one was forced to bring in a helper, and in addition, there had to be an additional election order to make sure that everything was as good as possible. It goes without saying that if you're in a small polling place, that's where you think the rules are a little difficult. I think the Socialist rapporteur was very, very nuanced in precisely the dilemma we are faced with here, because this poses a risk of electoral action, where we may be concerned about the exercise of social control. That is why I think we should agree that we are paying close attention to this, because none of us have a wish to do so. I remember that horrible night alive in 21 Sunday, when I brought something under the table, and you have to be careful, because the reporter got very mad. I brought an aid, and it was a ballot paper that was made with a script. This was an example of the fact that there are aids. The reason I am just mentioning this right now is that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party was a little worried that there are some authorisation provisions for the minister in this bill. I will try to reassure you a little by saying that these are two authorisation provisions, and they then go back into the various electoral laws, and that is why it seems a little bit. One of the provisions is, in fact, that the Minister is authorised to determine the means by which the vote and the vote are to be made available. The reason why this kind of authorization is being made is because you try to take account of the fact that there are ongoing technological developments here, and that makes it a little more flexible to ensure that the best aids can then be used if an opportunity arises. The second authorisation shall apply to the extension of the electoral right to persons temporarily residing in the Faroe Islands and Greenland, where the Minister shall be authorised to lay down the detailed rules for applying for entry in the electoral register. But, of course, attention must be paid when deciding to give authority to a minister. Then there were several of the rapporteurs who raised this point: when is it possible to start hanging up the posters, because when has the election been held? It is true that the formal thing is about the signature of the Majesty, but in practice, and I would like to confirm that here, it will be when the Prime Minister announces that elections will be held for the Folketing. Let me conclude by expressing our support for the positive reception of this joint legislative proposal and for the constructive debate we have had in the Chamber. It's quite true that you get around in this bouquet about electoral law and various other initiatives. I am glad that we will have the opportunity to make these changes, and I am glad that somewhere here we will continue to contribute, as the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned, to maintaining our position of strength as the world leader in the electoral field. After all, we have simply become world champions in the holding of elections, and we must continue to hold this leading position. So thank you for your comments. I am, of course, available to answer any questions which the committee may wish to clarify during the committee's proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014111105	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014111109	Thank you. Then I would just like to ask whether the Minister shares the concern of the Left Land Organisation about the bill that the Minister himself has put forward. Does the Minister not agree that if there are the right tools in the voting box, it will also make people with disabilities more self-reliant and that in the end it may be that we arrive at a result where it is not necessary to include a helper or two helpers in one's own confidence?
ParlaMint-DK_20161014111138	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014111139	It is clear that, with technological developments, it is ideal and perhaps achievable that even more people will be able to vote precisely by means of aids and not by means of personal assistance. However, yes, I do share my party's concern in the hearing answer, and I also share the concern of the Socialist rapporteur in relation to the dilemma that arises when you may be concerned about whether this is really the exercise of social control. However, I agree, as several rapporteurs, that this is in fact offset by what we are providing here and which I have long wanted, namely the possibility of people with disabilities having a much greater self-determination, being given far more choice. I think that makes it up to a high level. So I am not puzzled by that consultation answer; I think it is in line with the dilemma, after all, it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014111236	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014111238	When we discuss things, the Minister is regularly out to say that the Minister trusts the municipalities. Then I just want to know if the minister is confident that people with disabilities may be blind, or it may be someone who has a spastic paralysis... is able to choose for himself the helper you want to bring into the voice box.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014111259	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014111300	Unlike the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, yes, I have confidence in the municipalities, and I am also confident that the electorate will be able to find out. And yes, then we share the confidence that a person with disabilities can also find out about this. But basically, I think the rapporteur and I often have discussions about whether there is confidence in how municipalities manage the municipal day-to-day performance of the tasks of a municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014111327	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161014111341	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 25 October 2016, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
