ParlaMint-DK_20161201100020	The meeting is open. The parliamentary group of the Liberal Alliance has informed me that, with effect from 1 December 2016, it has appointed a member of the Folketing, Villum Christensen, as a state auditor, instead of a member of the Folketing, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, who per year. 28 November 2016 has been appointed Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201100048	Some people are making signs, because they can't hear what I'm saying. That is because there is too much unrest in the Chamber. Thank you. I welcome Lars Løkke Rasmussen as Prime Minister of a new government and give him the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201100110	Last week I was in Nyborg at a conference on the future labour market. It was a conference on what globalisation and technology and robots mean for our jobs. It was a conference organized by the trade union movement, by the LO. It was Monday, November 21st. Negotiations on a new government had just begun. I came directly from meetings at Marienborg with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Justice. Yes, I didn't know that at the time, because it's the present ones, not the then ones. And it occurred to me that the things that recorded the about 300 people gathered in Nyborg from all over the country, and what recorded us at Marienborg, were the same far along the way. Luckily, you might say. For me, it confirmed something important about Denmark, namely that across society we have a trust and respect and a willingness to discuss problems, to find common solutions based on common interests. It may sound quite banal, but it is probably in an international perspective in reality not. It's something special. LO's chairman, Lizette Risgaard, gave me an inspiration back to Marienborg. Insecure people hesitate, safe people dare, she said. Insecure people hesitate, safe people dry. I could then chew on that in the car across the Storebælt Bridge and home over Zealand on a dark November night, and I did. The days that followed went by government negotiations, and I believe that the trade union movement and the new Triple Government across what divides us can actually agree on a great deal. A freer, a richer, a safer Denmark; that is the direction that Denmark's new three-clover government has set. We need to get growth going. We must create security for our citizens. We must put freedom and opportunities first, promote cohesion, fertilise optimism. We will develop Denmark for the future. Because there's a need to look ahead. We have an obligation to look after our country and that obligation only becomes clearer when we look at the world around us, where what binds together crumbles and what separates grows large. That's what we're looking around the world. But we should not be afraid of the future, and we should not wish ourselves back to the past. For the good old days might not have been so good. Humans were trapped by narrow standards, prosperity was less, opportunities fewer. Generation for generation, life and everyday life have improved, so the future may be unknown, it is, but it is above all hopeful. And if we rust ourselves to it, as we have done before in the history of Denmark, it will also become bright and optimistic. In Denmark we have created a secure society where prosperity not only benefits the few but creates opportunities for the many. We can be proud of that. This is our legacy from the past, and it is our most important asset in the future. In Denmark, in many ways, it has been possible to build the bridge that modern man wants, a bridge between personal freedom to dream and think big and a warm, secure community. Because when more people are safe, more people are dry. It is a unique balance between freedom and cohesion, and that balance is our best card in globalisation. That is also why many countries look at Denmark with recognition and probably also a little envy. It is our goal in the three-clover government that in 5, 10, 15, 20 years you will also look to Denmark to get inspiration, that you will look this way and say: they managed to become winners in globalisation, they managed to bring everyone along. We want to safeguard the Danish welfare society, not by allowing ourselves to do so, but by doing things better. After all, the foundations of our welfare are good health care, a dignified care for the elderly. Less than two weeks ago, a historic amount was set aside for the fight against cancer, with the aim that more people should survive the terrible disease and as a common thread through the whole of a patient-responsible doctor, who is to provide security for the patient, security for the relatives. It is an effort that we will continue, because we will put man first. In the area of the elderly, our starting point is that people should thrive, not with technological checklists, but with good experiences. The Elder Minister has made it clear: we are born as originals, we are not to die as copies. We must stand firm for the freedom to decide for ourselves throughout our lives. We need fewer rules that limit, and this applies to the whole welfare society, both to citizens and to employees, because the two things are linked. When the citizen decides, the good is elected and the bad is chosen from. It puts healthy pressure on the public sector to deliver quality, and then the need for schedules, rules, controls, process regulation falls. I have great respect for the staff in kindergartens, schools, nursing homes and institutions, and fortunately I am not alone in this. When the Danes are asked, the vast majority are satisfied. Therefore, I would like to say here today to the thousands of employees in the core welfare: you are being remembered with warmth by the people you have followed on the way. I believe that each of us bears in mind a teacher who gave the extra push needed to break the code and learn to read; about the midwife who delivered our child; about the nurse who cared lovingly and professionally for our parents when they were dying. At least these are memories I'm carrying around with me. We have skilled civil servants, and that is precisely why we must show them more respect, give freedom to use their professional skills, free their commitment, focus on the core task so that they can deliver even better welfare to citizens. It takes a lot of things, but it requires, among other things. also skilled managers; lighthouses that take responsibility set a clear direction, motivate employees, make a clear priority at a time when resources and budgets are tight and where we need to spend the money with care. And those leaders are in several places today. Good governance practices and good experience must move, and managers must also move themselves, including between the public and private sectors. We need to raise the quality even more, move paper piles and enthusiasm in. And all this we want to boost with a new leadership commission. We need solid welfare and service. It requires renewal. That is why we have put a new Minister of Public Innovation, anchored in the Ministry of Finance with all the resources and muscle it provides, at the head of the work. This is an important priority. No welfare without prosperity. If we do not achieve productivity, if we do not make more progress, then we will have less money for better schools, better education, better care for the elderly, better hospitals, because the money must now be made before it can be used. Right now we see that employment is rising, unemployment is low, people in large numbers are moving away from passive support and into the working community. House prices are rising all over the country, and it is going the right way. But we cannot just sit back and wait for growth to creep up all by itself. We must build on optimism, we must fertilise optimism, we must give progress a flying height. We need more new companies and we need more new companies that are growing big. That is why we must promote a strong entrepreneurship culture. We need companies that are at the forefront of digitalisation and automation. That is why we want to push for investment and risk-taking. We need more business investment. We need employees who can use the technology. It requires high qualifications, it requires new competences. We must have companies that are at the forefront of international competition. It requires good business conditions. That's why the government wants to lower taxes. That's why the government wants to simplify the rules. That is why we want to make decisions that allow us to invest more in digitisation, infrastructure, roads, railways, all for the benefit of Danish business. In short, it must be both cheaper and better to operate. That is why we are going to present a new growth initiative. Then we need to know that while we are speeding up, others are doing the same, and that is why we must always be careful that we now provide the best possible framework conditions. That's why we want an annual check of Danish business conditions: Are they still at the level of the best in the world? And to keep an eye on it, we set up a council of business people, organisations and experts. For Danish business conditions, it must also be said that we must maintain the green leadership position. The government has set a new and very ambitious target: by 2030 at least 50%. of energy needs to be covered by renewable energy • today the share is 29 per cent. Look, it's going the right way. Companies are again hiring in all regions of the country. That is a positive step, and we must give a backlash to that progress. That is why we want to build on and on the historic relocation of state jobs from the capital to the other regions. You could call it a move-in, you could call it a move-in. It depends a little on where you see the world. In any case, it is a movement that is based on confidence that there are, of course, talented people throughout Denmark, and on the goal that our small country should not break into development and settlement. It has already been decided to move close to 4,000 jobs and the vast majority of relocations will be completed in next year. Then in 2018 we will propose to move more state jobs. And in future, when we expand state institutions or maybe create new ones, they must be outside the metropolitan area, unless very good reasons speak against it. A new institution in a city where there has been no one before is a piece of the optimism created by many pieces: a freer law on plans, fast Internet, cheap ferries, better infrastructure, more private jobs and competitive conditions for the whole food sector, which not only provides export earnings and thousands of jobs, but also helps to create activity precisely where it is most needed, namely outside the large cities. We must take care of Denmark. We must develop Denmark. We must therefore maintain that trade creates wealth, interaction provides vision, cooperation with the world opens doors to more opportunities, and we must seize them as well and as quickly as other countries. At a time when some people are looking inwards, we need to look out, have vision and be forward-looking in our foreign policy. The world is worried about terror, with wars, with people on the run. It's insecure. A lot of people are worried about that. I guess that really worries us all. But that is precisely why we should not turn our backs on, but strengthen our commitment internationally, seek to influence developments in a more stable direction, pursue Danish interests. We need to use our development aid wisely and we need to be prepared against terrorism, fragile states and a Russia that threatens European security. We have to take care of ourselves. We must take care of our freedom. That's why we're going to add more funds to the defense. We will do so in the forthcoming defence agreement, which covers the period after 2017. And in the new year, we will be presenting a comprehensive foreign and security policy strategy that the government is looking forward to discussing here in the Danish Parliament. Historically, politically and economically, Denmark is closely associated with Europe. Two thirds of our exports go to our European neighbours. That's where our wealth comes from. In a world of change where the only constant is the change, and with instability around us, we need a stable European Union. The government will work towards strong, slim and effective European cooperation, focusing on the tasks that the Member States can best fulfil together. We must ensure that Europe can continue to compete with the rest of the world in the future, create growth, create jobs, create security for our children and our grandchildren. That is also why we need to strengthen control of the EU's external borders, and we need to work closely together to combat crime and terrorism across borders. This requires strong European police cooperation. Therefore, the government is working on a special agreement where Danish police can maintain a close relationship with Europol when Denmark has to leave the cooperation until May next year. This is an issue which the Minister of Justice will be discussing in this Chamber later today and which I myself will be discussing with the party leaders. I have invited all party leaders to a meeting of the Prime Minister's Office on 8 December, i.e. Today in one week. The European Union is important. The European Union is also important for the Kingdom community. The government wants a close dialogue with the Faroe Islands and Greenland about Britain's withdrawal from the EU. We attach great importance to ensuring that the interests of the whole Kingdom community are taken into account in the forthcoming negotiations. We prioritize close cooperation on the Arctic and on our international work, among others. Arctic Council. All in all, we want constructive cooperation in the Kingdom community. In major conciliation negotiations, we will have separate discussions with the North Atlantic members of the Folketing, as also happened during the financial law negotiations. Thank you for your cooperation there. Both in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland there is a desire for own constitutions. I understand the wish, and I respect it, and the government is, of course, available for discussion during the work of the Faroe Islands and now Greenland, on a constitution. Right now the business cycle is good in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland. The two countries are very different, but there are major challenges in the slightly longer term. The government would like to share experience with economic reforms if there is a desire, because I believe it applies both in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands and in Denmark, that the welfare of our countries rests most securely on a healthy economy. At home we must create not only a healthy economy, but also economic security for the Danes. There must be peace of mind about the economy of families. No one should experience being taxed out of their homes. In the Folketing we have just reached a broad agreement on a new assessment system. I'm glad. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the parties involved. The next step will be an agreement on security in the area of housing taxation. The government will present its proposal at the beginning of the new year, and I hope that here too we will be able to reach a broad agreement that will provide security for the country's homeowners. Until the new rules come into force, the government will maintain the freezing of the property value tax and continue to freeze the land debt for the property owners. I would also like to thank the broad majority who have agreed a common understanding on a secure and well-functioning tax system. By 2020, we will invest massively in, among others. more employees and new IT in SKAT. It is my aim to interpret it in such a way that it is everyone's aim to have a modern and effective tax administration, because it is a security that must be in the welfare society. It is both positive and necessary that we carry out the task together here in the Folketing. Last week, when I was in my office at Marienborg, a woman was shot a few miles away on an otherwise peaceful shopping street in Lyngby. It happened in front of a little child. She was accidentally caught in a gang fight. Happily, she survived. The fact that such a thing can happen in Denmark is both tragic and in every way cross-border. I can't let that happen. It must be the case that an ordinary family can go shopping without fear of life. Denmark must be a safe place, Denmark must be a safe country. That is why we want to tighten our course towards criminals. We need to strengthen our police. We need to tighten up the penalties for perilous crime. We need to strengthen our efforts against bikers and gangs, and we need to look at how our penal code is screwed up. It's from 1933, and there's a need to give it a checkup. The government will continue a balanced and realistic foreign policy. The Danes are quite an open people. We're happy to help those who need it. We do, and we can be proud of that. But we also need to be realistic. We cannot solve all the world's problems by taking people to Denmark. It is important, also in order to maintain the open Danish mind and tolerance, to keep the refugee situation under control, because it came out of control last year when Europe's borders broke. Since then, it's been slowed down. It has been effective for Denmark. We have to go back five years to find a period where asylum is as low as today. That's good, but now we have to hold on. The Finance Act 2017 has taken significant steps: an emergency brake so that we can reject asylum seekers at the border if there is a crisis situation that puts Danish borders under pressure; more police to ensure order and order in and around asylum centres; tighter rules for permanent stay; more money to help in the vicinity, because that is where the problems have arisen, and that is where they can best be solved. That is why the government will work for a new asylum system. We must remove the basis for traffickers. We must ease the pressure on Europe. We must continue to pursue a strict, firm refugee policy, because this issue is a major issue. But it is also important to say that it must not make us forget the other side of the coin. There are also some places where we need foreigners, the right foreigners to put it bluntly. Companies need highly skilled workers, employees, and therefore it is also part of the government's basis that there must be good opportunities to recruit skilled employees from abroad. Globalisation and new technology open up the world, make us richer. Often, as in all other relationships of life, young people are the best at grasping the new. They get an education, they look at the future optimistically, they catch the opportunities, they raise their backs, they have confidence, they want to move forward into the future, as the young are most. But there are also young people who experience that the train with comrades is running at lightning speed towards new bright horizons while they themselves are standing on a dark and deserted platform. I think we all know them: the boy who is still struggling to read in the 7th grade; the girl who cannot concentrate on the professional; the young people who experience defeat during school years. They are the ones whom no one expects anything from, and who do not expect anything from, and here it will be really sad and expect something from themselves. I have had the great pleasure of working with young people on the edge for several years, and it is a great joy, for it can succeed in moving young people from the edge into the community. When there are adults who gave a boost, the confidence that is needed has the methods that work, then the young person experiences that labor is rewarded. Then there's a way out, and there's a way out. It can be done. And more people have to have that chance. It's a matter for the government, and for me, it's a matter of heart. We will take action in the past and with a significantly strengthened effort. In primary school everyone must have the basic professional skills: read, write and count. For having the basic skills in place is the largest and first prerequisite for being able to be socially mobile, moving. It's absolutely crucial to how things go for the rest of your life. Therefore, we will encourage schools that have many professionally weak pupils to do something that works to raise the level of those pupils. That is why we want to allocate 500 million. kr., i.e. 0.5 billion. kr., in a targeted pool for about 100 schools around the country. It is schools which have many students who have a professional backlog who have problems with Danish and mathematics. The pool is based on the idea that the funds are made available, but they are only given if the schools can prove that the academically weak pupils have learned more has moved forward. This is exactly the same method that we used back in the '00s to remove waiting lists for hospitals. It's an additional activity pool. It worked back then. Now we're doing something you could call an extra-quality pool. I am convinced that it will work again, both in the places where the pool is made available, but also wider into the primary school, where information about the learning methods that work and which move our children is needed, because we cannot accept that children leave the Danish primary school after 9 or 10 years without having the basic skills that are the foundation of a good and rich life in place. After primary school, we need to find better ways for more young people to get the youth education that suits them. More people have to take a vocational training course. We need to give young people on the edge a solid grip on the school so that they can pull themselves up over the edge to get hold of themselves, get hold of life. All the kids, all the kids are going. And so must their parents. We have to solve the problem that many get little out of work. This maintains families in passivity. Children grow up with parents who depend on public help. It's a burden on society's coffers. That's one thing. The money goes to cash aid instead of to hospitals or to education or research. It is in every way a vicious circle and a waste of resources, economic, social and human. We need to break that circle. Because if we can break that circle, it will be a huge social policy achievement. After all, the greatest social policy achievement is not to give people more in public services. It's giving them a job. It is to give them a life where they can stand on their own feet, take responsibility for themselves and theirs. That is why it must be worthwhile to work. And that is why the government will present a job reform II. We want to reduce the tax on the lowest labour income, so that the profits of low-paid work are increased. A high tax for low-income people is in itself a barrier to self-sufficiency and helps to make people dependent on public aid because a high tax limits labour market opportunities. That is why we want to reduce the tax on people with small incomes. We would also like to reduce the tax on the last earned crown. The top tax must play a much smaller role than today. Quite a few people will have to pay top tax, also to give our companies a helping hand in recruiting the skilled specialised labour that there is such fierce international competition. We will give a job premium to the long-term unemployed who are going to work. We will come up with a concrete proposal for this before Christmas, because it is right now that the times are better, that optimism is there, that companies open the doors to new recruitments, and that is why it is right now that we have to take action to get everyone inside the door. I don't want anyone standing outside. But even in a rich welfare society like the Danish one, there are people who lose their foothold. It is in every way a heartbreaking dilemma that in a country where we have woven the safety net closer and closer generation by generation, we still see people falling through. Children grow up in families where there is no surplus to give the love that children need. Men and women get a personal break for one reason or another, such as divorce, unemployment, sickness, abuse. It can happen to anyone. And they're going down, they're going out, and they can't find their way home again. One day last year, when I passed the Central Station in Copenhagen, I was taken up by a man with the words: I am 63 years old, am I supposed to live on the street? Is that the point? No, that's not the point of any human being in a welfare society. That's not good enough. That meeting last year was the beginning of an acquaintance between Jørgen and me. We've talked a few times since, and I've been visiting Jørgen in the apartment he's now got in Hvidovre Municipality. I've also promised that one day when he'll have a real house warming, I'll have to come by. I have promised to bring half a piggy, and you have to keep your promises, but he hasn't set the date yet. But that's not the important thing. The important thing is that getting a home has given Jørgen a chance to get more control over his day, get a little more calm, a little more stability in life, maybe do a job, sell House Over or help in a business. We would like to support that. That is why the government wants to introduce a social free card for the homeless and others at risk for precisely the kind of small jobs that are not subject to tax and that do not mean that you have to withdraw from public aid. Then there's a perspective on your life, and then there's a flash of light, and then there's something to go for. We will present an action plan to combat homelessness. It is a plan where we build on the good experiences that exist in some municipalities, so that more people like Jørgen can have a home and a daily life. We have built our society together. The more people shape and progress, the better our country will be. And now we must make every effort to ensure that people are not left out of: globalisation, digitalisation, the fourth industrial revolution, disruption, artificial intelligence, robots, automation, words flying around, but no matter what words we use about all the new things, it changes our labour market. There are some who are excited that there are very many who are enthusiastic. Others are worried there are many who are worried. We must have both eyes open; we must not just see it in black and white; we must see it in colors; we must see it in shades. We must take both opportunities and risks seriously. Danish craftsmen get competition from foreign colleagues. That's fair enough if it happens on fair terms. New companies are growing out of the shared economy to the delight of many, and that is good, but others are being pressured on the livelihood. Robots can do the grueling work in industry and care for the elderly. It is good for the working environment, but there are also people who are being forced. This brings me back to where I started my speech today: LO's conference in Nyborg. This isn't the only conference I've ever been to. In November I have actually been to two major conferences on the challenges of the future, both organised by the trade union movement. One was arranged by LO in Nyborg, the other was with Denmark's largest federation, 3F. In both places there was the positive and constructive approach that the new development is something we have to deal with, something we can do, yes, we can even get out stronger than we went in. This is the approach of the Danish trade union movement, and I am pleased about that. A year ago we entered into the tripartite cooperation from the absolute zero point that it was convicted out, it was condemned dead, it was buried by the previous government. Since then we have made two good agreements: one on better integration, so that foreigners get to work, make an effort and earn money, and a very important agreement in which we strengthen vocational training, re-schools unskilled unemployed and secure more skilled people in the future. It has been possible to revive cooperation between employers, employees and government thanks to a constructive trade union movement and forward-looking employers. And it wasn't a second too soon. Responsible cooperation on major societal challenges is needed now, as before, now as never.Therefore, continued tripartite cooperation is also an important part of the government basis for the new Triple Government. The next step will be better adult and further training for those in work. Courses and training courses must follow with new needs at the workplace • needs which change at the speed of lightning. I hope and believe that we can once again get a solid agreement for the benefit of employees, for the benefit of growth, for the benefit of Denmark. But we have to do more than that. I will follow the invitation given to me both by LO's chairman, Lizette Risgaard, and by 3F's Federal President, Per Christensen • a call for cooperation on the labour market of the future. In parallel with the trialogues, I would therefore like to invite the trade union movement, employers, companies and experts to a whole new partnership or advice where we need to discuss and analyse the labour market of the future with the clear aim that we must have everyone involved in making everyone the winners of globalisation. I myself will take the lead in the work. It is very dear to me and I will call the first meeting this month. I see in many places a strong will to look beyond my own narrow interests, look into the future, and I also hope to meet the will of this Parliament, including from the opposition. I understand, of course, that for a period there was an expectation that perhaps there might soon be parliamentary elections and that, therefore, there was also, what to say, a certain sluggishness in the discussions and, not least, a certain sluggishness in the matter of self, but there is no reason for that any longer, because now the country has a new Triple Government, and that gives more peace of mind to the parliamentary situation, so that everyone can now think long-term and think loudly and take co-responsibility. Because we should not go backwards into the future; we should go forwards into the future. After all, that is the obligation that has been the responsibility of all generations. It's ours too. In a world where stalemate is like decline, where progress requires us to go beyond differences, we must find common ground, which does not share, but binds us together. So I look forward to a good and trusting cooperation with the parliamentary political parties. The new government's parliamentary basis is the Danish People's Party. Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for the support. I look forward to a good one, and I will add further fruitful cooperation, just as I look forward to working with all parties in the Folketing. And then I look forward to a good debate here in the Danish Parliament on Monday, a debate where hopefully the starting point can be a joint answer to the big questions of the time • how we can equip all Danes to become winners in globalisation. We cannot hide from the winds of change. We must let it fill our sails, and we have a responsibility to ensure that everyone gets on board the trip. The Trikle Government is and wants to be a government for all Danes. The course is set against a richer, a freer and a safer Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201104332	Thank you, Prime Minister. As announced, the statement will be debated on Monday 5 December 2016 at 3 p.m. 10:00. And we will continue voting in seven minutes so that everyone can be present.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201105016	The sitting is resumed. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 13 by Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF), Trine Bramsen (S), Jakob Engel-Schmidt (V), Christina Egelund (LA), Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and Mette Abildgaard (DF). And a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 93 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF) voted against 16 (EL and ALT), [no votes for or against 0]. Proposal for adoption No V 13 has been adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 14 of Rune Lund (EL) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201105149	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201105207	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 58 (DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 56 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201105248	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201105306	The final adoption of the draft law shall be approved and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of voting 112 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), 0 abstentions 0]. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201105332	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201105356	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour 102 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 10 (EL), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201105429	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201105457	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of voting 113 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), [against 0 abstentions], 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201105527	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201105543	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. For voting 111 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), 0 abstentions 0]. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201105614	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201105636	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of voting 113 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), [against 0 abstentions], 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201105704	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201105719	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of voting 112 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), 0 abstentions 0]. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201105749	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201105806	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-6, member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201105825	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201105847	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT). The vote is closed. In favour 19 (EL, ALT and SF) voted against 93 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201105932	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201110000	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201110027	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL, ALT, RV and SF). The vote is over. In favour of voting 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against voting 88 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201110106	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201110119	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201110141	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 6 December 2016. Do you want to calm down? Then it is the rapporteur of the questioners, Mrs Zenia Stampe, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201110215	Thank you. And thanks to the Minister for Justice for running for this inquiry debate. If I know the Minister for Justice right, this is a subject that is at least as important to him as it does to us...
ParlaMint-DK_20161201110232	I'm sorry. There's got to be a little quieter in the room. We are wearing a rapporteur and we cannot hear what is being said and there must be quiet in the Chamber when you go out. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201110244	What we are discussing today is European police cooperation, and it is one of the police's most important tools for combating and solving the most serious crime, as it is very often cross-border. The background to the question is known. The Danes voted against an opt-in system in the legal field a year ago. This means that Denmark stands to fall out of European police cooperation when it goes from intergovernmental cooperation to supranational cooperation in May 2017. The government has been working intensively over the last year and we have no reason to cast doubt on this in order to have a parallel agreement on Europol. It has looked quite bad, and despite reports that something might be on the way, it is a fact that an agreement has not yet been reached and that, in the event that an agreement is actually reached, it is probably not a parallel agreement that gives full and complete access to Europol, but a special agreement of a more operational nature, which provides only limited access to parts of Europol. This must be assumed as the reason why the then Minister of Justice, Søren Pind, asked the National Police Commissioner in October to prepare for an exit from Europol. It was a sensible and timely decision. That was also the specific reason why we raised this question debate. Because the debate on the electoral system before the referendum was mainly about the anatomy of the electoral system, that is to say, the construction of the agreement itself. The debate on Europol itself, on the other hand, did not fill so much, as there was a broad political and popular majority behind the cooperation and the Danish People's Party guaranteed that Denmark could continue as a full member of Europol also after a 'no' vote to the electoral system. Those who, on the other hand, said that a 'no' could mean goodbye to Europol were accused of conducting a scaremongering campaign and, as a situation outside Europol was thus considered unrealistic, the interest in discussing the consequences of such a scenario was very limited. The work of the National Police in preparing a possible exit from Europol finally gives us the opportunity to get a clear picture of what a possible future outside Europol will look like and what political, strategic and operational consequences it will have. I know that some people will certainly object that an agreement is on the way, but as far as I understand it, it is still completely unknown what form such an agreement will take. Therefore, I still consider it appropriate to discuss a possible exit scenario and, furthermore, the Minister's statement and summary of the consequences could serve as a possible yardstick for a possible special operating agreement. We will be able to use it to assess the extent to which a possible agreement mitigates the consequences of a full exit. We are therefore looking forward to the statement. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Alternative, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party... President (Pia Kjærsgaard) We shall just wait with the proposal for adoption until the Minister for Justice has been on. ) That's fine, that's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201110546	Here you go, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201110559	The government's clear view is that there is a need for close European cooperation in the fight against cross-border crime and terrorism. It goes without saying that this need does not suddenly disappear on 1 May 2017 when Denmark as a starting point goes out of police cooperation in Europol. Therefore, the government also works on behalf of the parties of the Folketing to conclude an agreement with the European Union on the closest possible link for Denmark to Europol after 1 May 2017. At the same time, the National Police Office has been asked to take the necessary steps so that the Danish police are as prepared as possible for a possible withdrawal from Europol. It is a matter of due diligence that the Danish police have begun to prepare for the consequences of a possible withdrawal. Today's question debate is precisely about the consequences of a Danish withdrawal from Europol. Europol is today a key international focus for combating serious and organised crime in Europe, and Europol plays a crucial role in solving and combating crime in Denmark. It would therefore have very serious consequences for the Danish police if Denmark were to withdraw from Europol. Departure could significantly complicate specific cross-border investigations, as the Danish police will no longer be able to make use of Europol's support and assistance. I will briefly review the main operational consequences of a withdrawal. I will do so by examining a number of the forms of support and assistance provided by Europol. This is the support and assistance that the Danish police will lose if Denmark has to withdraw from Europol. At the heart of Europol cooperation is the exchange of information for the purpose of combating crime. Europol is already the focal point for the exchange of information between police authorities in Europe, and this role will only be strengthened in the future. The information received by Europol is stored and processed in Europol's databases, including Europol's Information System, what we call the EIS. The storage and processing of the information in the EIS means that the information will be available to all Member States, and via a direct search in the EIS, Danish police can now easily obtain knowledge of e.g. relevant investigations in other Member States. It is quite specifically important that the police, for example. can find out whether foreigners who have been stopped are known as travelling criminals in other EU countries. Danish police use this opportunity very actively and carry out a large number of searches in the EIS each year. In 2015 alone, Danish police conducted 91,472 searches in the EIS, which corresponds to approx. 250 searches a day. On termination of Europol cooperation, the Danish police will no longer have access to direct searches into the data transmitted by the other Member States to Europol and stored in Europol's databases. It is quite unrealistic to imagine that the Danish police could replace this access by directing over 91 000 inquiries annually to the police authorities in the individual Member States. The lack of access to the data contained in Europol's databases would damage the police's ability to investigate cross-border crime. If Denmark is no longer involved in Europol cooperation, Danish police will lose crucial knowledge both in relation to specific investigations and in relation to being able to target specific actions in individual areas, for example. on the rocker gang area. An extremely important part of the exchange of information between European police authorities is today via the liaison officers seconded to Europol in The Hague. Europol houses the world's largest network of liaison officers representing law enforcement authorities from all Member States and a large number of other countries that have concluded agreements with Europol. The presence of liaison officers under the same roof offers a unique opportunity for close daily cooperation between the police authorities of the Member States. The liaison officers in Europol play a key role in specific investigations, where rapid and effective coordination between the authorities of different countries is essential for the conduct of the investigation. This applies, among other things, to: cross-border observations and cases of drug smuggling, where liaison officers help ensure proper and timely cross-border management. Furthermore, without participation in Europol cooperation, the Danish police will no longer have access to Europol's analysis capacity. It is the opinion of the National Police that it will have a major negative impact on the Danish police. That is, for example, the case. in relation to cybercrime, where Danish police rely on being able to send large amounts of data for processing and analysis in Europol in order to identify underlying criminal networks operating globally via the Internet. The exchange and analysis of data under Europol also gives Denmark a significantly enhanced intelligence image in relation to other forms of crime such as trafficking in human beings, drugs, travelling criminals and sexual assaults against children. I would also like to point out that Europol can provide analysis assistance in exceptional situations. That was among other things. the case following the terrorist attack in Paris in November 2015 when Europol granted investigative assistance to France and Belgium. More than 60 Europol staff were associated to provide analysis assistance to French and Belgian police. Such an opportunity for analysis aid for specific investigations will also be lost if we have to leave Europol's cooperation. Europol's assistance to the French and Belgian authorities following the terrorist attack in Paris last November is, moreover, a concrete example of the strengthening of cooperation in Europol in the field of counter-terrorism, as we have seen in recent years. Europol shall have, inter alia: By setting up the European Counter-Terrorism Centre in January 2016, it focused and strengthened its assistance and support for Member States' action against terrorism and radicalisation. This centre acts as an information hub for counter-terrorism. Member States are increasingly using Europol services to share information on counter-terrorism and radicalisation. This is true, for example. Europol database on foreign fighters. Through this database, information on recruitment of potential foreign fighters and their travel routes is collected, analysed and shared, and more than 5,000 foreign fighters have been reported to the database today. Denmark's withdrawal from Europol will mean that Danish police no longer have access to information on potential foreign fighters via Europol. If Denmark leaves Europol, it will also weaken the modern analytical capacity that the Danish police are building in these years, among other things. to address serious cross-border crime. Thus, the police will not be able to integrate into their analysis platform the very extensive and valid intelligence and information about foreign criminals, trends in the crime picture, etc. provided by Europol. Those of you who have participated in the debate on Denmark's future association with Europol in the last two years will recognize my examination of the consequences of Denmark's withdrawal from Europol. So it remains to be seen that it will have very serious consequences for the Danish police if Denmark is allowed to withdraw from Europol. That is why I would also like to emphasise that the government is working hard to reach an agreement with the European Union to ensure that Denmark is the closest possible link with Europol after 1 May 2017. In this connection, I can mention that yesterday the Prime Minister sent a letter to the party leaders. The letter is about the status of the discussions with the Commission. The letter shows that the Prime Minister will hold an orientation meeting on 8 December 2016. Immediately thereafter, I will have a meeting with the party rapporteurs, where the National Police will also be present. More technical questions could be asked here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201111424	Thank you, Minister. Then again, Mrs Zenia Stampe, the rapporteur of the questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201111441	Thank you. I shall be relatively brief because, on the other hand, I kept a rather long motivation. I would like to reflect a tiny bit on some of the points raised by the Minister. I think that there is a rather gloomy picture of the Danish fight against crime in a scenario where we are outside Europol. That is why, of course, we hope that an agreement will succeed and that it will give us as close a link as possible. I fully understand that if we cannot get too close to that agreement in today's debate, because there are still negotiations, and I respect that. There are some things I would really like to clarify a little bit I don't know whether it should be about questions or what it might be. I think, in fact, that the Minister made a very good point about some of the specific consequences I have, at least, been laughing and laughing. Some of the things I'm a little concerned about are, among other things: border controls. After all, it is no secret that we are not very much in favour of border controls. Now, however, we have it, and I had the pleasure of visiting our border controls down in South Jutland a few weeks ago, and there I asked what to do when you stop these cars and you have a suspicion that something might be wrong. Then I was told that Europol can be applied for. This may not be so much aimed at the Minister, because I know that the Minister and the government are very concerned that we continue to be part of Europol and will also have full access to these information systems, but I think that this must be something that we must dig a little more into, too, those who are great supporters of border controls and who are, of course, part of the reason why we are standing here today and do not become full members of Europol. Because what might well be the situation is that we do not have full access to Europol, perhaps a delay in accessing Europol, but it does not help to stop anyone at the border and say that we would really like to find out whether they are in some database if you can only get an answer after half a day. That is why I really think it is a little interesting that we will already be able to see in a very short space of time some very serious consequences of the withdrawal of Europol, even if we still want to have a link with Europol, perhaps in the form of an operational special agreement. I am not going to say so much here, apart from reading out a proposal for adoption. I repeat that this is on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Alternative, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservative People's Party, and the adoption text reads as follows: Proposals for adoption The Parliament recognises that it will have serious consequences for Danish police if Denmark has to withdraw from Europol. This is partly due to the fact that Denmark, on leaving Europol, will lose access to information which is currently of great importance for police action against cross-border crime. Denmark will also lose the opportunity to participate in enhanced cooperation in Europol in the fight against terrorism. At the same time, the Danish Parliament notes that the government has asked the National Police to take the necessary steps so that the Danish police are as well prepared to withdraw from Europol as possible. The Danish Parliament also notes that the Government will continue to work to conclude an agreement with the European Union to ensure that Denmark is the closest possible link with Europol after 1 May 2017. V 15).
ParlaMint-DK_20161201111822	Thank you. There are a few brief comments to be made to Mrs Zenia Stampe. First, it's sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201111829	I understand that Mrs Zenia Stampe has moved to the Yellow Denmark, and it is always nice to come out and visit some of those you do not understand. But I would really like to ask Mrs Zenia Stampe a very specific question. How to apply in Europol
ParlaMint-DK_20161201111850	Here you go, Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201111852	As far as I know, you search through your computer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201111857	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201111859	So Mrs Zenia Stampe is of the opinion that any police officer in Denmark can just apply to Europol?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201111907	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201111908	No, but now we heard before the Minister explain the number of searches, and that was 90,000 searches alone in one year, i.e.. about 250 searches a day. That is to say, it is a tool that is used quite extensively and that is used, among other things. also uses in the context of border controls. And you might ask yourself: what is the real relevance of border controls if you cannot apply to Europol? Because if there are those who seem suspicious but who, by the way, have the papers in order and who cannot be looked up in Europol and then find out that they are really travelling criminals, what is the point of border controls? Because then you have to let them in. I think that is actually a question to which the Danish People's Party owes an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201111951	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201111953	I must admit that I think it is the most, what should I say, untimely debate on questions that can be imagined. In other words, we are in the middle of a debate about continuing to be associated with Europol, and the text which, among other things, is. Mrs. Zenia Stampe is putting forward, doesn't even have support for the government about it you just take note of it. There is not even any support for the government's negotiations to get the closest possible connection. Instead, we have to stand here and discuss how serious it is that we go out. What is the reason why this text does not support the government's negotiations? Then there is also a specific question from me, because Mrs Zenia Stampe has apparently been down at the border and has been told that they are looking for Europol registers, and so I would like to know: if you are standing down at the border and looking for Europol registers, what is the specific information you can get from that search?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201112049	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201112051	That was a lot of questions at once. It may be that we reach them all in the second round. First to the criticism that we do not support the government: we do. In fact, I started by saying that I would like to acknowledge the government for its intense efforts to achieve a parallel agreement which now seems to be an operational special agreement. There is no doubt about that at all. This debate is not about the special agreement either. It is about a scenario in which we are completely outside Europol. And I actually explained in my motivation why we have chosen to make the cut like that. This is because, in our opinion, there really was little focus on that particular scenario in the campaign leading up to the referendum, because the debate came to be about the design or anatomy of the agreement. And that is really what a majority of Danes voted against, and not whether you would be a member of Europol. After all, the polls we have seen on this issue show that there is broad support for Europol, and that, as far as I know, is also there in this Parliament. So this question debate is about getting a realistic picture of Denmark's position outside Europol. And now there is much to point out that we are not going to be outside Europol, but that is why this question may well be a very good tool in terms of measuring this special agreement against it. Has it mitigated all the consequences that the Minister of Justice explained or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201112218	Yes, please! Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201112220	After all, it is difficult to take that discussion when we do not know what an agreement is being made by the government and if the government gets an agreement at all then it is a rather difficult discussion. But all right, that's the rapporteur's choice. I just want to ask: what exactly is this information that the Danish police get when they stand down at the border and search Europol's registers?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201112241	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201112242	It was one of those things. What the Minister for Justice has said before, and it is, among other things, a question of travelling criminals. It's not something you can just look at people when they come in, but it's something you can get information about in a register. Compared to the deal, I lost track. I don't remember what Mr. Søren Søndergaard's objection was, but I also think I have explained very well why we are discussing the scenario in which we are completely outside Europol. Because I really believe that it will be an excellent scenario to measure up to an agreement, and I hope that most of the negative consequences explained by the Minister will be mitigated by means of an agreement. But I also think it is real to ourselves and to the Danes to show: what is the position quite outside Europol, and what is it that we will then have mitigated by a possible agreement, and what would we really be like if we were a full member of Europol?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201112337	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201112340	I also find it strange in a situation in which we have seen the government finally pulling itself together to negotiate instead of shouting the wolf coming, and that the naysayers were stupid, and I do not know what has been in the press by now of strange comments to those who recommended a no 11 months ago. It is as if you want to create a hysterical atmosphere so that you can be heroes afterwards and say that here we have a solution. I think it looks just the other way around. You try to pretend you've worked hard as hell, and then you'll probably get a solution. Now we have just heard the Prime Minister say that next week he will invite the party leaders, and that is probably to present a possible solution. I'll guess. Why else do they have to drink coffee over at his place? That's why it seems a little strange to start drawing scenarios. I could also draw many strange scenarios around the European Union. I just think that the Danes think it is rather annoying that it should be either total disaster or totally super good to be in the European Union. When will we have the opportunity to discuss things a little more nuanced?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201112448	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201112449	In fact, I believe that this debate is an attempt to create this nuance, because we could have asked differently. Instead of asking about the negative consequences of leaving, you could just turn it around positively if you would have liked Enhedslisten and asked: What are the benefits of being part of Europol? For my sake, no alarm, and that is the way we can turn the debate around. But this is precisely about: what is Denmark getting out of being part of Europol? And once we've got that list of items, it's also easier to assess the possible special agreement that the government will have negotiated home to Denmark, hopefully. And we hope that it is as good as possible and that in this way it mitigates as many of the negative consequences as possible by standing outside, or vice versa, if we are to formulate it positively, it will make as many gains as possible by being associated with Europol.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201112541	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201112542	Well, there's nothing new, absolutely nothing new. I could even understand if Mrs Zenia Stampe asked the Minister: what does the Minister expect there to be in the forthcoming agreement that the government will present next week if it wants to? Then we began to enlighten each other. There is none of what the Minister said now, which we did not discuss at the meetings that I attended up to 3 December, absolutely nothing! If we are to be associated with Europol, the Danes will have an intergovernmental agreement. It is clear to everyone that you do not need to be a minister or a professor to listen to it. The Danes are very clear in the area, there are just a few frustrated politicians who are not satisfied with the Danes' opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201112623	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201112624	But now Mr. Christian Juhl again, as if it were a given matter that we could get an intergovernmental agreement. That is what I see as the problem in the whole debate, namely that it was said here that it was not a question of Europol or Danish participation in Europol, but a question of whether we should have an intergovernmental agreement on Europol or take part in supranational cooperation on Europol. And that is the starting point for this debate: we also need to have a debate on Europol itself when it has become apparent that there is indeed a real risk that we will get out of Europol because we did not become part of the electoral system. And we can hope that this will not be the case. There's a sign that there's an agreement coming. However, it is probably not as good as the guarantees we heard from the Danish People's Party and perhaps also the Enhedslisten, because as far as I can hear, there are some limitations to that agreement, and that is not optimal. However, we have better opportunities to assess this when we know the full consequences of the total withdrawal from Europol.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201112722	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201112726	Thank you. I do not really doubt the intentions behind Mrs Zenia Stampes' desire to conduct this question debate. It has probably been such an agenda, where you thought you could take the opportunity to try the Danish People's Party a little. And I have to say to the rapporteur that I think we might be disappointed there, because we are actually quite happy with the way it works. However, I would really like to ask the rapporteur about this with the interest of other EU countries, which are, of course, part of the Europol agreement. What interest should other countries have in Denmark being left out in relation to, for example, cross-border crime? Can the rapporteur give an example of why there should suddenly be an interest in us being thrown out of Europol completely? After all, this is one of the scenarios that has been enjoyed by the enthusiasts of the European Union. We have the largest airport in the North quite a few miles from here. What should be the interest in limiting the possibilities for police authorities, etc.? at such a large airport should be allowed to go in and use the investigative tools that are needed?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201112834	Here you go, Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201112836	Now I really do not think it is my job to speculate about the interests of other countries. But we just have to say that we are from several actors, among others. An EU Commissioner has heard that it should not be a given matter that we could get an agreement. And if we are going to get into the exercise of going into the head of other countries and examining their interest in whether we are outside or inside, then there has been a discussion both before and after Brexit that a possible parallel agreement with Denmark could give other good ideas, that is, other countries that would like to have the opportunity to choose and choose between the obligations inherent in full EU cooperation, and that such an agreement could somehow open up a number of Member States that would thus have such a kind of, what can be said, free election membership. I do not know whether that is the reason why some people have expressed themselves critically/s skeptical about Denmark's ability to have a full parallel agreement, but that may well have been one of the reasons for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201112942	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201112944	I think it is quite a lax argument that comes from Mrs Zenia Stampe: some Commissioner should have said that we might be in a difficult situation. Firstly, a Commissioner is, after all, a politician, and I know that most of those who are Commissioners within the EU system are quite enthusiastic about the European Union. That is the position I have at least and the clear interpretation I have of the way it works. Secondly, it does not change the fact that if you look at the referendum that has been held in Denmark, it was a referendum which showed a clear picture that the Danes were thus saying no to the fact that it was all supposed to be completely supranational. A debate on this has been requested, of course, and we have also said from the Danish People's Party that we are of course interested in Europol continuing and that Denmark is an active part of it. But why not just take a referendum on it alone, if that was what was essential?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113036	Thank you. Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113038	But it cannot be denied that one day it will be the case. After all, we are talking about a special agreement in the very short space of time, which can mitigate the worst consequences of being outside, but it may well be that these consequences are increasing as technology develops. So to the argument that among other things... These Commissioners are enthusiastic about the European Union, so why will Denmark not be allowed to participate in such a parallel agreement? Well, perhaps it is precisely because of the enthusiasm for the European Union and the fear that the European Union will collapse if a precedent is created for countries to choose and choose between the binding elements of cooperation in this way. And I understand that concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113124	Sir. Carsten Kudsk, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113127	I would like to ask Mrs Zenia Stampe: the future way of catching criminals is through DNA and fingerprints... is that information in the EIS, the Europol system?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113141	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113143	That's one of them. Therefore, we have a query debate; it is to ask about that sort of thing. This isn't about quizzing me about Europol. It's actually about getting an in-depth knowledge of that kind of question. That is why I have invited you to the question debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113159	Sir. Carsten Kudsk.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113200	Then let me ask you another way. Now Mrs Zenia Stampe is so unfortunate that unfortunately I have just visited Europol. What does it mean when a third country requests what is called an emergency call for a potential terrorist? How quickly can this information be obtained from Europol?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113220	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113222	I think that is a question we should ask the Minister. That is why I have asked for this debate. But what I can now sense in the Danish People's Party is that you are moving to where you really no longer think Europol is so crucial. That's why I didn't make a change of course. It's the Danish People's Party. Despite the fact that the Danish People's Party has a President who promised that there would be a vote on Europol if we could not have a full parallel agreement on Europol, it would be put to the vote, and one would now recommend a yes to the Danish People's Party because of some post-rationalisation by making backswimming away from it, and one starts to become more critical of Europol. I find this unfortunate, especially because I know the Danish People's Party's position on combating crime: you cannot get enough at all. And then I just have to say that I think Europol is a necessary tool. But that is why we have the debate today. It is to know how important a tool it really is.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113311	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113314	First of all, I think it would be wise for the rapporteur to stick to what is his own policy, rather than using the speaking time which, moreover, should have been used to reply to Mr Beazley's question. Carsten Kudsk's question, to criticise the Danish People's Party and the thought rushes that the rapporteur otherwise expressed. It was a little embarrassing. However, I would like to ask some of what the rapporteur said in his speech. In his speech, the rapporteur said that Denmark probably cannot have a parallel agreement, but an operational special agreement. I would like to ask the rapporteur to explain the difference between the two types of agreement and also to state what the rapporteur knows, which makes the conclusion that a parallel agreement cannot be reached, but an operational special agreement can be reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113352	Here you go, Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113353	When I motivated the question debate, I said that I would not go too far into the negotiations out of respect for the government and the negotiations under way. However, we have to note that when we had a vote a year ago, we were consistently talking about a parallel agreement, not just the Danish People's Party, but also the Danish People's Party. Now the language has changed into a special agreement. That was also the word used by the Prime Minister earlier today in his statement. That is why this is a different type of agreement, and what we have to dig down today is what opportunities we have, but not in a way, so we are disturbing the debate that is under way. I have complete respect for that. What I do not really understand about the many questions of the Danish People's Party is that it should somehow be about a political game. But for me, this is not really a political game; for me, it is about getting black and white what Denmark gets out of being in Europol. And then we have to see how far a special agreement brings us in relation to reaping the gains or mitigating the negative consequences that could be being left outside Europol, depending on whether you want to formulate it positively or negatively.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113502	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113503	I am even more confused by the answer than I was, because the rapporteur is now saying that we need to look at what opportunities there are and a few answers ago the rapporteur would not go into the whole process of an agreement at all. There it was about what the consequences would be if we went out. So, I just have to say that I find it strange that the rapporteur should call a question debate at all if it is a matter of factual knowledge about Europol. Can I not suggest to the rapporteur that he should put some committee questions and have the answers that come circulated to the whole committee? Well, honestly, it seems very bizarre for us to follow this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113539	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113539-2	I have summoned the Minister but I understand that the Danish People's Party believes that this is about quizzing me in Europol or quizzing me in why I have arranged this inquiry debate. If you are so uninterested in the question debate, I am frankly surprised that there is one, two, three, four, five, six, seven members of the Danish People's Party sitting here. Then perhaps you could spend your time a little more wisely than on a query debate that you think is uninteresting. I am, in fact, just interested in mapping out the consequences of standing outside Europol. I cannot understand that creates such great furore and wonder in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113623	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113628	I would like to ask Mrs Zenia Stampe what Mrs Zenia Stampe thinks about the nature of the access to databases currently available to Danish policemen in Europol when a police officer is on the border and is doing a search in Europol.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113647	Here you go, Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113649	This is precisely one of the questions I would like to put to the Minister, because what I heard on the border was that people are being looked up in Europol, and so I would like to hear without getting too close to the possible agreement that is on the way, what consequences it will have if you do not have immediate access to Europol. These are the questions I would like to clarify with the question debate today. I didn't answer the question. I'm the one who's asking the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113723	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113726	So, when the police stand at the border today and break up with Europol and have access to it, the police get some information. What is the rapporteur's view of the nature of the information available to the police today under the current system?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113740	Here you go, Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113742	I do not understand the question, but I have to say that one of the questions I am interested in answering is precisely what it will mean for border controls if you do not have access to Europol at the border. That is a question that I am also very interested in getting an answer to.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113803	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113806	However, it is strange to hear the rapporteur keep refusing to answer the questions and say that you just want to know what the consequences are about to be outside Europol. If the rapporteur does not know what the consequences are of standing outside Europol, why did the rapporteur so massively run a campaign for the referendum last year for the importance of Europol, when the rapporteur now has no idea what was gained from being inside the company? Why was it so important to stay there if you didn't know what it was about?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113837	Here you go, Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113842	This is about giving concrete shape to the consequences of being outside Europol, because it is clear that the Danish People's Party is aware that it is of great importance for the Danish police's ability to combat and solve organised crime, terrorism, etc. But I would like a statement on the specific consequences that will have, for example. What that would mean is that the police at the border did not have access to break up with Europol. That is the debate or the statement, the questions to which I would like to reply by raising this question debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113924	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113925	I guess that's what you could call a non-answer. I'll try again. If the rapporteur does not know what the consequences are of standing outside Europol, why was it so important to tell the Danes that we should stay inside Europol, that is, if you had no idea what was going on there and what would then be missed by withdrawing from Europol? Why was it so important to stay there when you didn't know what they were doing?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113950	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201113951	Conversely, I have to ask: if the Danish People's Party is fully aware of the consequences it will have, I cannot really understand that they are here today. Yes, I understand that the rapporteur is here today because he has to give a speech to the rapporteur, but I really do not understand why seven Members are sitting here asking so curiously about it. If you are fully aware of the operational consequences, you could sit down in your office and spend your time on something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201114014	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201114017	Somehow this whole development is getting more and more comical, I think. Because I was also one of those who took part in the referendum last year, and one of the main arguments that came from Mrs Zenia Stampe's party and many others was that we would get out of Europol if we voted no. We would no longer be able to have European police cooperation, and that would be pure misery. The Danes nevertheless voted no, fortunately for it. They saw through what was at stake, and then the negotiations started. A few months ago we heard again that it would be completely impossible to reach an agreement. Mrs Zenia Stampe's former party chairman, Mrs Margrethe Vestager, was out saying that it would be completely impossible. And now it seems that such an agreement is on the way. Then Mrs. Zenia Stampe invents a whole new concept. This is not a parallel agreement at all, even though a parallel agreement, as I understood it, was a terrible thing. But now it has been said that a parallel agreement could not come into being, so what we are getting now is not a parallel agreement at all anymore. It's a special deal. But perhaps Mrs Zenia Stampe could tell me and the public about the difference between a parallel agreement and a special agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201114133	Here you go, Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201114134	An operational special agreement is the concept, I believe, which appears in the media. I have no greater knowledge than the other Members here. I note that we have moved from discussing a parallel agreement that gives full and complete access to Europol to a special agreement of an operational nature which has access to parts of Europol.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201114203	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201114205	However, this should not give rise to a bit of red ears for Mrs Zenia Stampe and all the other parties who just two months ago filled their feed on Twitter and many other places to tell how much Enhedslisten and others had lied when we said that it was possible to create an intergovernmental agreement with Europol in line with, for example. The Norwegian?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201114237	Here you go, Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201114238	In fact, I think that last year's negotiations on a parallel agreement have shown that this was certainly not something we could take for granted. And without getting too far into what kind of agreement it is that is on the horizon, I do not think it is an agreement that will be quite as good as what the Danish People's Party guaranteed, and which Enhedslisten also put the people in view. I think there will be some limitations, and I hope that everyone can see that is not optimal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201114311	Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201114313	Thank you. So, this question debate I assume is about what will happen if Denmark falls out of Europol. Am I right about that? I would also say that it is fair to say what the benefits of staying in Europol are. In other words, it will also be a debate on how Europol works in practice. I understand that some of my party colleagues are asking the rapporteur what it is that we lose if we fall out and then asking how it actually works in practice. I would like to make another comment rather quickly, and that is that the debate was also very much about Schengen. It certainly did for me. If Schengen is raised to supranational level, then I do not see that we can have border controls at all. And then Europol will not be able to contribute to anything that has anything to do with border controls. So what the rapporteur says is that Schengen simply means, when someone is at the border, that there will be no permanent border controls. And that's what we're fighting for there to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201114432	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201114432-2	I did not quite understand the question in the long speech. But I know the position of the Danish People's Party, and I see it as a repetition of it, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201114439	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201114441	I understand that the rapporteur has not come down here at all to debate, but actually just to create some kind of advertising pillar for a point of view. I asked: if we had agreed to everything that was in place, with the legal reservation, it would have meant that Schengen had been pulled up to a supranational level, and that would have meant that we had never had permanent border controls. And that is what we have been fighting for, and that was in fact one of the reasons why we said yes. We welcome Europol, but we are very, very critical and concerned about Schengen cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201114518	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201114519	I know the position of the Danish People's Party on Schengen cooperation. It has to be said that we now have border controls based on spot checks, and we have this in agreement with the European Union. So, in this way, there has been some derogation from the rules under the impression of what is being said, the refugee crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201114542	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201114544	Thank you. I noticed that Mrs Zenia Stampe said earlier that this is not a political game, and she also said that the risk in this, if we now got a good agreement, was that other countries could have good ideas. That sounded a little troubling to me. But I think it may be because Mrs Zenia Stampe also believes that the English have got good ideas when they voted as they did and that the Danes have got good ideas when they voted against this agreement. But it could also be that it was because the people now had some opinions about this. But I would really like to ask Mrs Zenia Stampe whether she thinks it is wrong for us to ask the people and that we actually listen to what the people around Europe might think about this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201114634	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201114634-2	No, I think that's okay. I just think that one has to understand that if everyone takes a position like Denmark in relation to the European Union, then eventually there is no longer any European Union. Because if everyone has such arrangements, which means that you can choose and choose, as you think you will get something out of it, then there is no more a strong European Union. It is clear that there are parts of the European Union that we like better than others, but if we are to have others commit themselves in those areas that matter to us, then we also have to commit ourselves in those areas that may not mean quite so much to us. So this is all about whether or not we should have binding cooperation, and if we are going to have it, then we are in, and then we are not just half in or half in when we think it suits us. Of course, the scope of the European Union can be discussed, and whether the European Union is interfering in too much and so on. and so on, and I think this is a completely legitimate debate, and I also thought it was a legitimate referendum, and I think it is good to ask the people. I think we should just realise that if we believe that the European Union is, overall, an important instrument for Denmark and the rest of Europe, then it involves a commitment, and then we cannot have a system in which all countries choose a position as Denmark. It is a luxury position that we are fortunate to have, but which the European Union cannot survive if everyone has it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201114805	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201114806	After all, I am pleased to hear Mrs Zenia Stampe say that the scope of the European Union can be discussed and how the European Union should function, because that is something we would like to do, and one might well discuss which way the European Union should go, in which order things should happen and how they should happen. But does it not also stress that this is a political game and that there are political decisions behind it, whether we get an agreement or not, so that it is not the constructive discussion of what is our interest, what is the interest of the other countries and how we create the best possible cooperation in the field of police, but that it is precisely a political game that makes it possible that we do not get the best agreement because we do not want it politically?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201114848	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201114849	There should be no doubt at all that I and my party and I are absolutely convinced that this is also the case with the government that wants the best possible agreement for Denmark, that is, an agreement where we can be full members of Europol. And if we cannot be full members, then we can be almost full members, where, for example, we are. have access to the information databases without delay and without us having to ask anyone to do so. That is what we want. So that's how we want you to do our scaremongering, if you can call it that, because that's what you've called it to shame. But I just think the course of the last year has shown that it was not a given case. But we hope that we will have a very good agreement. There is no doubt about that. Because it will be the only right thing for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201114939	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201114942	Thank you. First of all, I think it is very important to say that we in the Enhedslist have never said that we could have a full and full agreement, and if Zenia Stampe thinks we should have said otherwise, then I think it is important that we get a proof of that. Because we have clearly stated in both the campaign before the vote and in the negotiations with the Prime Minister afterwards on the Enhedslisten side that a full and full agreement cannot be reached. And why can't you? That goes without saying. You cannot get full and complete membership of a supranational agreement at an intergovernmental level, and that is why we have always called for the best possible intergovernmental agreement. And there we support the government in trying to get it, and we do so, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. But I would like to ask Mrs Zenia Stampe: do you honestly believe that the debate we are having right now strengthens the government's negotiating position in Brussels?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201115052	It's called both Mrs. Zenia Stampe, as was not said earlier, and it's not said you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201115059	First of all, I take note of the fact that the Enhedslisten has not promised full membership and that it has been more realistic in its approach, and I would like to acknowledge that, although I believe that the impression out there in the population was that it would certainly not have any major consequences if you voted 'no' because you could get something that was almost as good. That it was not a full membership, but that it was something that was the best possible and almost as good, I think, was also the impression given by what Enhedslisten's politicians said. Then I would like to say to the question whether it matters in relation to the negotiations that I do not really think it matters very much. However, the question I have raised is, of course, about the consequences of standing outside, and I am not the one who chooses to draw the negotiations into the picture, but it is of course those who have been opposed to the electoral system because they think that it is in some way convenient right now. But I am not the one who brings the negotiations into this question debate and thus touches something that could be a tiny bit inflamed. On the contrary, it is I who keep saying: let us keep that arm's length arm so as not to disturb the negotiations that are under way and which, I hope, are now also in their final phase.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201115220	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201115221	I think it is positive that Mrs Zenia Stampe admits that the Enhedslisten has never said that Europol could be fully involved through an intergovernmental agreement. We must have the best possible agreement, and I have to say that when I listen to today's debate that way, I have some doubts. It is fair that the Radicals would like to see the whole legal reservation abolished, but we do not want to do so in the Enhedslisten, and there is a majority of the Danish people who do not want to do so, and that is why I think we are left with the impression that it is perhaps more important to try to abolish the reservation of law in one way or another in the future than to back up the fact that we are getting the best possible intergovernmental agreement right now. Because is that not what should be our common objective, in other words, that we should have the best possible intergovernmental agreement with Europol so that we can cooperate operationally?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201115317	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201115318	I certainly agree with that. What is the aim and the aim right now is to get the best possible agreement, and I will repeat something that I said in my motivation for the question debate and, as I have said later, that, when I have chosen to ask this question, it is precisely to list the points where Europol plays an important role in the police's work in combating and solving crime, and that it is not just to draw a scare picture if we go out of Europol, although I really believe that most people can agree that this would be a rather frightening scenario. But it is to get a list that we can then measure up to a possible agreement. Now it can be said that there are probably none of us who will say: it is not good and we would rather stand outside. I have not yet heard of that position. But it can at least give us an idea of whether that agreement is the best possible and whether, in most respects, it actually mitigates the negative consequences that we have heard about today. This isn't a polemic debate. There are some opponents of this opt-in system who think that I have called for a polemical debate. I haven't. I have called for an enlightening debate, a question debate because there were a number of questions to which I myself did not have an answer and to which I would like an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201115438	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no more comments. I have to postpone the sitting until 8:00. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201130000	The sitting is resumed. We move forward in the rapporteur's line and the next rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mrs Trine Bramsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201130013	Crime is crossing borders on an ever-increasing scale. This applies to physical crime involving burglar gangs, terrorism and child abductions, but not least on the Internet, crime occurs across borders. It's credit card fraud, it's trick thieves, it's bikers and gangs who exchange information, and it's pedophiles. If we want to combat cross-border crime, we need cross-border police cooperation. It requires binding agreements on the mutual exchange of intelligence and data, and this requires formalised cooperation. That cooperation exists, it is called Europol. For the Social Democrats to see, there is no doubt that Europol is becoming increasingly important. A large number of police tools at home depend on Europol. This applies, for example, to the databases that are essential to enable license plate scanners to intercept the Romanian thief gang crossing the border or the wanted German car driving around Copenhagen. The Europol register can be searched for persons who can be searched on plates and telephone numbers can be searched, and that is obviously important information when cases are to be solved or criminals are to be spotted. That is also why we clearly and unequivocally recommended a 'yes' vote when we voted on the lifting of the legal reservation last year. May I not add to that that I took part in several debates with the parties that recommended a 'no' vote, and in virtually all debates it was claimed that it would be no problem to continue in Europol through a parallel agreement if it were to be a 'no' vote. Now we are standing here, a year later, and it turns out that it was certainly not as easy to get an agreement as it was claimed. I really hope that this will give food for thought to the parties that recommended a 'no' vote. Is that really what those parties wanted? Is that what they wanted for Denmark? Not least, there must be some parties which have little difficulty in facing the voters. I look forward very much to getting an answer to this question today: is that what you would like to see us now in a situation where we cannot have an agreement with Europol similar to that we have had so far? But there remains the question of Denmark's ability to combat crime in the future, and we in the Social Democratic Party should have no doubt that we are concerned. Indeed, we would like us to have the best tools for combating criminals in the future, and that is why we would like us to remain a full member of Europol. We want the strongest defense against the criminals. Having said that, we respect the fact that it became a no in the elections a year ago, and that also means that we cannot continue to be on the same terms as we are today. Security is a matter for social democracy, and to create security we must use the tools that work best. It is deeply worrying that we are hearing very clear reports right now that bikers and gang members will make it much easier without a Danish full membership of Europol. It is therefore deeply worrying that in future we will not be able to influence Europol's cooperation when we know that we have a police force in Denmark which is among the world's best and which can therefore also contribute to Europol's best methods. For whom does it benefit? Yeah, well, in the end, it's good for the criminals who get it easier while the police get it harder. I find it worrying that there are parties in this Parliament that ignore warnings from our National Police Commissioner and even accuse senior officials of acting as political minions when they give the warning that leaving Europol will have a consequence and will not continue to have the same access to information as we do today. I have been a legal rapporteur for a long time, and I just want to say that if there is one thing we cannot accuse our officials of, then it is acting as political minions. Finally, let me make it clear that we have the political responsibility for security in Denmark. On the part of the Social Democrats, we give full support to the negotiations that the government is entering into right now in the European Union, but there is no doubt that this is a worse solution than if we could continue as a full member of Europol.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201130549	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201130554	When I hear the rapporteur, I have to say that I am going to think of a Kim Larsen song, namely, that soon we will all be gone, and the circus princess who is stalling on her line and something like that. In fact, I think that Mrs Trine Bramsen reminds me a little of the circus princess, because I have rarely heard a rapporteur's speech like that today. But okay, if we're gonna be sad and sad, all of us, that's how it is. I would like to ask Mrs Bramsen something: what kind of knowledge is this of the agreement negotiated by the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and of which Mrs Trine Bramsen is aware, but which I am not aware? Mrs Trine Bramsen must be aware of something other than what I am aware of, since Mrs Trine Bramsen can come up with such categorical conclusions on how Denmark will stand after 1 May.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201130645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201130646	Circus princess or not, I care about Danish police, and whether the Danish police in the future will have the same good tools to fight crime, and whether Danish police will in future have the tools that can best combat criminals. That is what this debate is about: how the criminals are going to get it as hard as possible and how we are going to give the police the best tools. When such clear reports come from among others. EU Commissioners who say that we cannot continue as full members of Europol will have consequences, because of course membership always has advantages that you cannot have if you are outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201130735	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201130737	Although it is not the nature of Mrs Trine Bramsen to put cold water in her blood, we know that, I would nevertheless urge Mrs Trine Bramsen to do so. Now we have just heard that there will be a meeting with the Prime Minister next week, where something will be presented about this agreement, which will certainly come, since we have heard various ministers speak on it, and then I would ask Mrs Trine Bramsen to take a look at that agreement, and then, if the rapporteur finds the opportunity to take out the doomsday trombone, the rapporteur can blow it. But to do it now I think is a bit untimely.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201130811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201130812	I think I'll have to tell Mr. Knox. Kenneth Kristensen Berth that politics is not something we play. This is not about who can make the most degrading words in the Assembly Hall or make himself humorous at the expense of others. This is about how we create security in Denmark, and I have to remind you that we have a situation where the threat of terrorism is highest for many years. We see burglar gangs crossing borders and we see increasing crime on the Internet. That is the situation right now. Then you can have fun, but what we in the Social Democratic Party are concerned about is to equip our police as best we can, and we are concerned not to be able to do so if we leave Europol, and there is much to suggest that we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201130856	Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201130858	The last comment about the fact that it is not about making the most demeaning words in the Danish Parliament, I would like to say to Mrs Trine Bramsen. I think there will be a few occasions when I shall read them to the rapporteur. I have not promised the rapporteur full membership of Europol. That price is far too high to pay. That's what I said, the Danes said. The rapporteur even said that she would respect the Danes, and then she scolds the Danes with the argument that now bikers and gangs can have free rein. Now I would like to know whether the rapporteur will tell me what the Prime Minister is going to talk about next week, because she must know that since she believes that bikers and gangs are going to have a free run in Denmark. Well, we don't know anything about that. We haven't been told anything. The minister hasn't told me anything that wasn't also told in the election campaign. The rapporteur has nothing, absolutely nothing new, that was not discussed in the election campaign, where there was a very nuanced and serious debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201131003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201131004	First of all, I said very clearly in my rapporteur's speech that I respect the fact that it was a 'no' on 3 December last year. We in the Social Democratic Party respect that. But that does not change the fact that I am deeply concerned that there is no sign that Denmark can continue as a full member of Europol. So it is the reports we have heard from the people in the European Union who have commented on this that you are not interested in making discount editions, that you are not interested in Denmark being able to hang on just as it pleases us. Then I must also say that there are parties other than the Enhedslisten who promised up to the vote last year that we could just get a parallel agreement, that it would be no problem at all. All you had to do was snap your fingers and there'd be a parallel deal. Maybe Enhedslisten didn't say that, but there are other parties who do.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201131056	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201131058	It's a good idea to listen to what others say. I would therefore like to say: why should it not be possible to have an intergovernmental agreement that the Danes, or at least a majority of the Danes, would like to have? Why would that be impossible? Why would that be a problem? I don't understand that at all. We have to see this when the Prime Minister comes and presents the results of the fantastic negotiations that have been mostly useless and now, lately, have become a bit of a reality debate. I look forward next week to hearing the Prime Minister explain the content, and I would like to take a position on that. I think it's more serious than yelling and screaming that bikers get out. We have no idea, including the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201131139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201131140	Unfortunately, I have to remind you that time is running out. There's not much time for May. If an agreement has not been negotiated before May, then the consequence is that Denmark is going out of Europol. I also very much doubt that we can get an agreement that is as good as the one we have today, in other words that we can continue with the membership we have today. There have been no reports of this from high-ranking people in the European Union that we can, on the contrary. That is why there is cause for concern that it will be easier to be a criminal in Denmark and not harder.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201131215	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201131217	Thank you, sir. President. Unfortunately, there are also people who are planning terrorist activities both in Norway and in Great Britain and in a large number of other European countries. Many of these crime challenges happen, for example. In view of the extreme degree of freedom of movement that has been achieved, we have, so to speak, no border controls between the various nation states. Then the rapporteur says that what we will get if we get a so-called special agreement will be a discount version • I think the rapporteur actually used the word discount • and that is why we must also conclude that what they have in other countries, for example. Norway and the United Kingdom, which have some sort of reservation in this area, but nevertheless benefit from the cooperation they have with Europol, must be a discount version. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur really believe that it is a discount version, what is going on in relation to the fight against terrorism, etc. in Britain and Norway?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201131313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201131314	First of all, let me remind you that Norway is not a member of the European Union and that therefore the conditions for negotiating agreements are also others. Britain is familiar to me on its way out of the European Union. But the crucial thing must be that we have the best possible agreement. What is crucial must be that we give the Danish police the best possible conditions in Europol. Norway does not have a full agreement on membership of Europol. This means, among other things, that they cannot look up registers as quickly as we can in Denmark. I have even heard the Norwegian police being out warning that we in Denmark copy the agreement they have there because ours is better, so why should we get something worse? That's what worries me.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201131359	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201131400	Thank you. I asked the rapporteur about the discussion. The rapporteur pleaded a few minutes ago that it is a discount model that exists in Britain and Norway. The rapporteur then uses the argument that they are also outside. Will that mean that they have a better agreement because they are outside and that we should then have a bad agreement because we choose to be part of European cooperation but at an intergovernmental level? Is it really the policy of social democracy that, because we are a member of the European Union, we must have a worse agreement than the countries outside the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201131433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201131434	Now I think the questioner is well at work on the number of strawmen, because what is at the heart of my speech is that we run the risk of not getting as good an agreement as the one we have today. Hence the word discount. In Norway there is not as good an agreement as we have in Denmark today. That is also why Norwegian police have been out warning Denmark not to get a similar agreement. But what I am saying, and I am saying this very clearly, is that we cannot be sure that we can have similar agreements as those countries. That is something we hope for. We could also hope that we will have something even better, but we do not know. This is a negotiating situation. We don't know.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201131511	Sir. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201131512	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I would just like to remind the rapporteur of the position of the Enhedslisten before the referendum. We said two things: first, that we want a parallel agreement; then, there is nothing called in EU law, but an intergovernmental agreement. That is what we are going for; that is what we want; that is what we are working for. Then we added: if this is not possible, because we cannot promise it, because it requires the European Union to sign, and we have many criticisms about the European Union, so that they would not want such an agreement if the European Union does not want to, then we are in favour of a new referendum on Europol alone. We even meant it so much that we wrote it down in a joint document together with the Liberal Alliance I can see that the Danish People's Party and the People's Movement against the European Union are being nodded. That is exactly what we said, and that is the situation today. What is interesting then is whether the Social Democracy, with all the criticism of the results achieved by the government in obtaining an agreement that we already hear in advance, will recommend that we have a new referendum on Europol.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201131623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201131624	I would like to pay tribute to the Enhedslisten, because I think it is a more fair approach to it to recommend a 'yes' vote in a vote on Europol, but it is only in contradiction to what other parties in this Chamber are now saying after the vote. You will not recommend a 'yes' to a vote on Europol. They want to build upstairs with a lot of other things that need to be negotiated. So I would like to pay tribute to Enhedslisten for holding on to what was said at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201131654	Sir. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201131656	In other words, we agreed to recommend a referendum, because our basic view is that the people should decide it. However, it was not so much a question of what Enhedslisten thought it was more a question for the Social Democracy, whether the Social Democracy wants there to be a referendum on Europol. After all, there are limits to how much can be struck on the agreement that we do not yet know, without reaching the conclusion that we must then have a new referendum. Is it what the Social Democrats mean by respecting the referendum that we should have a new referendum?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201131732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201131733	No, you cannot hold a referendum and then, when it becomes a no, say that we will just hold a new referendum if the parliamentary positions are exactly the same, that is, if nothing has changed. I think that if the parliamentary positions in this Parliament are exactly the same, it would be a waste of disrespect to the result that came a year ago to say: we do not believe that; we believe that you voted something you did not mean, so now we are just holding a new referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201131802	Thank you. Then I don't have any more on the list. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line, and the next is the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201131829	Thank you, sir. President. See, on 3 December 2015, a majority of the electorate decided that Denmark should retain the reservation of law. It has certainly been a bitter pill to swallow for the EU-positive parties who, after all, saw Europol's transition to supranationalism as the crowbar that should break the Danes' opposition to the abolition of the legal reservation and ensure that Denmark could get closer to the core of the European Union. As you know, this was not the case. A broad majority in the Danish Parliament subsequently gave the government in training to work to secure Denmark an agreement that allows Denmark to continue to participate in Europol. The Government then sent a request for a parallel agreement to the Commission. Then I actually have the impression that things stopped. It seemed as if the government was sitting back waiting for time to pass. The self-defined deadline of 1 January came closer, after which, in recognition of the lack of progress, a new referendum could be held on the abolition of the reservation of the law, perhaps because the government had taken the view that if only the project of an operational agreement failed, one could always fall back on a new vote where the Danish People's Party would recommend a yes. I also believe that this is the way things are going, and I believe that the answers we have received from the Ministry of Justice and Foreign Affairs to what former Minister of Justice, Mr. Søren Pind and former Secretary of State Mr. Kristian Jensen has done something about this. We asked to know exactly when, at what meetings and in what context the land had been fertilized for the desire for a Danish agreement. That's what we asked for in August. It was three months before we got an answer. But when the answer came, it was quite meaningless. There was no concrete indication of when the two ministers had raised the question and in what context. It was an answer that could have been written in 5 minutes in the Ministry of Justice, but which it took 3 months to provide. In general, the process has been surrounded by some mystery. There have been no meetings with the parties behind the agreement since the conclusion of the agreement. I personally have not heard anything from Mr. Kristian Jensen, but I've been able to read a lot of conjecture in the press. To put it mildly, this is not the normal way to keep partners informed here at Christiansborg. I do not know whether that was the case with the vote that we had in 1992, when Mr Beazley said that he was not a member of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, but a member of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Holger K. Nielsen was in a central position. Nor did he hear anything after he had entered into an agreement with the then government on what further progress should be made? It may be that we can get an answer to that later today. In recent weeks, I was first able to read in the press that former Minister of Justice, Mr. Søren Pind, during a meeting with the think tank Europe, was able to reveal that there was some sensitivity to the Danish problem, and on 15 November I understood from an article on TV 2 and subsequent press coverage that former Foreign Minister Mr. Kristian Jensen believed that an agreement would now be reached within a few weeks. I can now understand that the party leaders have been summoned to a meeting of the Prime Minister's Office next Thursday for information on the progress of Europol. It is interesting that we now seem to have such an agreement at all. Donald Tusk described it as not easy, perhaps impossible, and Frans Timmermann said that one cannot be half pregnant. Now it looks like we're gonna get an agreement like this, and suddenly it doesn't seem good enough. Moreover, it is very difficult to have to deal with something the content of which is unknown, so I will refrain from doing so, but I will simply note that the approach taken by the government in relation to these negotiations has not really been very clever in keeping a partner such as the Danish People's Party in total ignorance of the process. It is not, of course, conducive to trust between contractual partners that parties with which agreements are made should be kept informed on a regular basis about their status, but that the parties to the agreements in the press should be confronted with new rumours and fragments of possible agreements, breaches of government considerations, etc. Now there is a new government, and the new Minister of Justice and the new Minister for Foreign Affairs must, of course, have the opportunity to make up for the sins of the past. I am confident that an agreement will be reached between the European Union and Denmark on Europol. We have, of course, been told by the former Foreign Minister that such an agreement is on the right track, and we must trust that. When that agreement is signed, we of course from the Danish People's Party will carefully study the agreement, relate to it, but until then it is basically not very interesting to discuss on the basis of assumptions, guesswork and hypotheses. I shall therefore make the following proposals for adoption on behalf of the Danish People's Party: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government of the then Minister for Foreign Affairs announced in the press on 15 November 2016 that an agreement on continued Danish participation in Europol would probably be reached within a few weeks. Parliament looks forward to being informed of the content of the agreement reached in the near future. • 16).
ParlaMint-DK_20161201132352	Thank you. The proposed adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Then we start the debate. There are a number of questioners, the first is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201132403	Thank you very much for that, President, and thank you to the rapporteur. I recall the debate here a year ago, when each of us went on and on for each of our own points of view. I'm afraid I lost. There I heard the rapporteur's party, the Danish People's Party, express very strongly how important it was to be part of Europol. In fact, it was felt that it was so important to guarantee that we could have a parallel agreement, that is, an agreement that fully reflected the arrangement we have today. And it even went so far as to say: if this is not much against expectation and logic, then we must take a new vote, in which we are willing to take the part we have otherwise been very opposed to, namely Schengen. I have heard the rapporteur say that it was a statement. It took place so many times on the part of the rapporteur's President and such successive days, but it may well slip away. But what if we can't get that deal? What if it is said to us: Well, dear friends, you have chosen to stand outside; what you can have is by its very nature not going to be as good. So how much is it gonna take? How much will it take before the Danish People's Party is satisfied with such an agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201132519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201132520	Well, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, I do not want to stand here and deal with hypotheses and conjecture about something that we will probably be able to clarify on Thursday next week. It just doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201132532	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201132534	Ah, let me try a little bit anyway. Is it a demand from the Danish People's Party that the Danish police should be able to search the information system of the European information system that we have talked about in the past, for example? in relation to border controls, which I understand the rapporteur is so enthusiastic about?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201132553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201132555	Well, we've been saying that all along. We have always said that register access is central to the Danish People's Party. And when this agreement comes into force at some point, we will take a position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201132608	Mrs. Trine Bramsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201132610	Thank you. When we were in the election campaign a year ago, the leader of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, very clearly that he would recommend a yes in the event of a new Europol vote. Is it still keeping away?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201132632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201132633	I have such great faith in Mrs Trine Bramsen's ability to keep up with the media that I think Mrs Trine Bramsen is fully aware of what Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl subsequently said.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201132644	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201132645	Well, I'm interested in the position of the Danish People's Party on this issue. Will the rapporteur acknowledge from the platform of the Danish Parliament that the Danish People's Party does not stand by the promise that they gave the electorate up to the vote on 3 December last year?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201132702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201132703	I can confirm that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl draws the politics of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201132707	Mrs. Zenia Stampe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201132710	I would like to present the rapporteur with a scenario inspired by Politiken: it is 2020. The police are stopping a truck, it looks suspicious. You'd like to check it for a possible connection to a terrorist threat. The police are entering the information into their new mobile devices... that's the future. They send them to The Hague and the answer comes quickly: thank you for the request, we will come back later today or tomorrow. The police will then have to leave the car because they will not be given information to justify stopping the car or taking further action. Then you could supplement the scenario with the fact that perhaps a few days later it turns out that this car was actually involved in a terrorist attack in Denmark. What is the rapporteur's position on this scenario?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201132754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201132755	First of all, I should like to remind Mrs Zenia Stampe that neither today, yesterday nor in the future does an ordinary police officer have access on her mobile device to seek anything in the AIS. You can't do that. Having said that, I would also like to say to Mrs Zenia Stampe that it is a hypothesis based on a hypothesis based on a hypothesis. And the hypotheses in the third power I don't relate to.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201132824	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201132845	This is now quite a realistic scenario, because the other countries will be able to have access to the Europol information system on such mobile devices. So that's the future, and that's why it's not hypothetical. This may be the scenario we have to deal with, which is why I think that the Danish People's Party should deal with it now. But if it isn't now, it may be in a week, and then I can't wait to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201132904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201132905	Well, I can assure Mrs Zenia Stampe that, when there is an agreement, of course, we will deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201132911	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201132915	I've noticed, too, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's comments later, but would the rapporteur not agree that this is approaching political fraud? Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is the closest thing to Danish politics' answer to Låsby-Svendsen, that is, a man who sells horses with a loud voice, and it is the world's best horses that you can buy there, or cows, and when you come home with it, the horse is either lame or it is a three-patched cow. It was, of course, extremely crucial for the outcome of the referendum that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl gave the assurance that no matter what happened, Denmark would be able to retain its place in Europol, either as a full member in a separate referendum or by a so-called parallel agreement that was as good as full membership. I think that in itself should give rise to some red ears in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133017	But Mr. Holger K. Nielsen must also have knowledge of something that I certainly have no knowledge of. It is possible that the government has informed the Danish Parliament's EU-positive parties about something in this agreement in which the more sceptical parties of the Folketing have not been involved. I can only note that I have no knowledge of the agreement that may come forward, other than the conjecture, hints, etc. that have been in the press. That is why I reserve the right to deal with it when I see what that agreement says.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133047	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133049	I'm not asking about a deal. I'm asking about sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's remarks, which came a long time before we discussed this agreement, which meant that he had to consider whether he stood by what he said during the referendum campaign that he would support a separate Danish referendum on Europol, and that it also did not matter whether Schengen would be involved in it, knowing that it would of course. Kristian Thulesen Dahl said directly asked: yes, I would like to support a separate referendum on Europol. And that's what he's been running from. I would like to make a comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133132	Now I happen to think I know a little more about the voters of the Danish People's Party than Mr. Holger K. Nielsen does, and I think that the voters of the Danish People's Party would consider it a problem if we in the Danish People's Party had recommended our voters to vote in favour of an agreement that involved a definitive and definitive farewell for Denmark to be able to introduce permanent border controls by its own means. There I must say that I think I know in what weight bowls the electorate of the Danish People's Party would fall.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133205	Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133207	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his speech, in which the rapporteur made an enormous effort to describe the process which the rapporteur believes has been going on since an application was made back in May for a parallel agreement. We were left with the impression that the procedure was more important to the rapporteur than the substantive one, and that is why I would like to ask the rapporteur a question about the substance of what we are talking about. And I want to ask quite openly: Why does the Danish People's Party also think that I assume that one still thinks that Denmark should be part of Europol?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133238	Now it seems that Mrs Christina Egelund has had a thin stomach a little too early. I have also noted that Mrs Christina Egelund and the Liberal Alliance went out very early and so almost abandoned the ambition of a parallel agreement and announced that they would nevertheless like to support a new vote. That's where the Liberal Alliance has to find out for itself where they are. But there is nothing new about Europol. In other words, the Danish People's Party still wants Denmark to have as close a link as possible to Europol. We are just confident that when the former Minister of Foreign Affairs, when the former Minister of Justice announces that there is an agreement on the way, then there is an agreement on the way. I do not have the imagination to imagine that the new Foreign Minister, whom Mrs Christina Egelund knows very well, should be able to muddle the talks that have taken place so far with the European Union to such an extent that there is no agreement. I have no expectation of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133337	Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133339	I can assure the rapporteur that my stomach is quite well, thank you for your care. I asked about the substance: why does the Danish People's Party think it is important that Denmark is part of Europol? And then the rapporteur responds with a lot of procedural talk. I would like to repeat the question: why does the Danish People's Party consider it absolutely essential that Denmark is part of Europol?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133406	Apparently, some things happen when parties become members of the government. In fact, in the past, I had the impression that Mrs Christina Egelund was not very happy with the flow of information that had come from the government around this area either. But in relation to Europol it is obvious, that is, it goes without saying that Denmark has an interest in having access to the EIS register. Denmark has an interest in us drawing on the information that Europol has, and I am quite convinced that we will be able to do so after 1 May. I am very much looking forward to presenting the agreement that the government, the current or earlier, has been messing with, so that we can have a debate on an enlightened basis about this rather than all the assumptions and assumptions, and what do I know about which we have to deal with at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133456	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133457	Thank you. Sometimes you get a little confused down here in the Assembly Hall. Now we have just heard a speech from the rapporteur and I could understand that the Danish People's Party believes it is important that we are in Europol x way. Before we just saw a what can you call it quiz. It would probably be termed half-bullying if it were in the primary school, the behaviour of the Danish People's Party's questioner to Mrs Zenia Stampe, who has called for this rather important question debate on what the consequences are. So I need a clear answer from the rapporteur: does the Danish People's Party want us to be in Europol?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133546	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133546-2	But could we not then hear about the rapporteur's actual view of the question which today is about what the consequences are if we are not there? Now let's discuss what this is all about, instead of standing around talking about everything else and pointing fingers at each other in this a little inconvenient way. Well, let's deal with the really important question that is. What are the consequences if we don't understand? Are there no consequences at all for which the rapporteur is concerned?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133612	Yes, but sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, we could also call a question debate on what would happen in Denmark if the alternative were given 90 seats in the Folketing. It's just not very interesting to spend a lot of time on that, because thank God it's not gonna happen. Similarly, we now have a debate here about a hypothesis about what would happen if Denmark were to get completely out of Europol, which is completely unlikely. And that is why, in my opinion, it is close to being an unnecessary move in the time of the Minister for Justice that the Minister for Justice should sit here and take part in this inquiry debate, while the Minister for Justice could do a great deal of work in actually getting us a parallel agreement down in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133651	Sir. Henrik Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133653	It is still the most procedural considerations that come from the Danish People's Party, which is why I repeat Mrs Christina Egelund's question: How will the Danish People's Party specifically evaluate a possible agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133709	I am very pleased that Mr. Henrik Dahl to catch that is what it is all about, that is, that we get an agreement and when we get the agreement, we take a position on the agreement. And then I can tell Mr. Henrik Dahl, that it is essential for the Danish People's Party that we have access to Europol's registers and databases. That's the fundamentals. I have also noted that the former Minister of Justice, Mr. Søren Pind has indicated that this agreement could be a springboard for an agreement that will be even better for Denmark, so that the agreement we are now holding will be a kind of guarantee that we will not fall beyond that abyss on 1 May, but can continue in Europol and then continue to work towards an even better agreement. I noted that Mr. Søren Pind said, and as far as I remember, it was at a debate meeting of the think tank Europe, as Mr. Søren Pind was invited to, and I think it is a commendable and interesting thought.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133808	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133809	So if the conditions which have now been mentioned, which have been registered and stored as long as the Danish state remains, are met, then it can be expected that the Danish People's Party will support an agreement on Europol.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133823	One can safely count on the Danish People's Party to take a very positive view of such an agreement as the government comes home with. But it is clear that we must see what the agreement means. So there is no real point in standing around and discussing a lot about something whose content we do not know. So it is clear that it depends on the specific content.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133844	Thank you. Then I don't have any more questioners on the list. We are grateful to the rapporteur and then we move on in the rapporteur's line. And that is the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201133855	Thank you very much. After all, the Minister of Justice has been asked to explain the expected consequences of Denmark's withdrawal from the EU's common police cooperation, Europol. It can in fact be expressed so relatively briefly and accurately with one of the very best words in the Jutland dictionary, and it is the word slave, real slave. You can also put it a little longer, and the Minister of Justice has done so in the past. Europol plays a crucial role in the fight against crime in Europe. Cooperation in Europol is also of great importance for crime committed in Denmark. As mentioned earlier by the Minister, it can be said that the more than 91 000 searches in Europol's register carried out by the Danish side clearly illustrate that we in Denmark are quite dependent on Europol cooperation. After all, it is also the message from the National Police that international cooperation is more important than ever because there is an increase in cross-border crime. So it should also be clear to everyone that any Danish withdrawal from Europol will have consequences. Because the criminals don't care, they don't care, they don't care, they don't care about national borders. They use modern technology, they use shady methods, and they will have room for their illegal activities. This will mean that it will be more difficult for Danish police to investigate and combat cross-border crime. More specifically, it will mean that the Danish police can no longer use this rapid exchange of information, which we have also talked about a great deal about today, and the intelligence analysis which today serves as a major support for the Danish investigation. The Minister of Justice has explained quite adequately the more operational consequences. I must not hide the fact that in the Left we are actually really sorry that last year's referendum fell out as it did. But that's how it turned out. The Danes did not want to transform the reservation into an opt-in system, and we respect that, of course. In the Left we made it very clear that a 'no' could risk having the consequence that Denmark had to leave Europol completely. We went out and said that a parallel agreement was absolutely not given in advance. And we did not hide the fact that such agreements could have very long prospects and that it could ultimately be difficult to get one in place, especially to get an agreement in place that would give us the opportunities that we have today, completely and without reservation. On the no side, especially represented by the Danish People's Party, the interpretation was, to say the least, another. A parallel agreement was simply guaranteed here. Sir. Morten Messersschmidt said to Berlingske last November: "We can get a parallel agreement, and here I am not talking about a Norwegian agreement or a Swiss agreement. No, a Danish agreement where you make a copy-paste of our current terms. After all, we said at the time that such guarantees were in fact totally unrealistic and that we could expect a 'B' membership of Europol by means of a 'no' vote in a referendum at best. But the 'no' side gave the voters a tale which has since been unable to live up to without, by the way, taking responsibility for these consequences in any way. As you know, the reality was that we could not just get a parallel agreement and it seems to have surprised a very large proportion of the voters who for some reason had confidence in the promises of the 'no' parties. Now we are debating the possibility of a kind of special agreement where we cannot be a full member of Europol in Denmark, but where the government is doing everything in the negotiations to get the closest possible connection with Europol with respect, of course, for the Danes' vote here a year ago. After all, these negotiations have proved difficult, and the government has not concealed that fact either. We are probably not going to get an agreement that gives us the opportunities we have today, because that is what we said no to. Having said that, it is important to stress that we continue to believe that a smaller solution is possible. Then we'll see what it's gonna look like. We believe that it is possible to get some kind of agreement in place, and we know that the government is doing so much in the power of the government to reach such an agreement. We wish them every success in these difficult negotiations, but we know that the full benefits of Europol that we have today are not going to get, and it is going to hurt. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201134351	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201134356	Thank you. There are two things. It's just that we can agree on that. After all, we did not vote on Europol on 3 December last year. We voted on a package in which Europol was an element. It is more so that the rapporteur also recognises that there may have been many reasons why people voted 'no', which had nothing to do with Europol. The second point is that I would really like to hear the rapporteur's position on the leak that has been in Europol, that is, which came out yesterday, it is a long time since it has been there, but it was kept secret, which thus included many hundreds of pages, 700 pages, with sensitive information on terrorism, 54 different operations covered it, a large number of countries, and I do not know whether it included information from Denmark. Perhaps later in consultation we can discuss with the Minister of Justice whether there is also Danish information. But what is the rapporteur's position on the fact that there are such problems in Europol?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201134501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201134503	About Mr. Søren Søndergaard's first remark I can say, and I also hope that I made it clear in my speech, and we can then see that this was not a vote on Europol. It was about converting the reservation of law into an option model. I thought I said that along the way, but let me repeat that that was what it was all about. But Europol was, of course, one of the issues we had up to in virtually every debate, because it was one of the heaviest consequences. So with regard to the leaks in Europol, I would like to say that at best it is some hay. It's a bad thing. But we don't shut down Nets either, because Se and Hear have bribed people to pull things out of there. I think it is terrible that leaks are happening, whether from Europol, from Nets, from all sorts of other places, but it does not make me loop my Dankort that Nets has had problems. Nor does it make me wish that we do not participate in Europol, that there have been leaks there. This is something I trust you have the investigative capacity to find out so that you can punish the person who has been responsible for the leak quite hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201134606	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201134608	We can see that this is a matter that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen's colleagues in the European Parliament take extremely seriously. After all, you have already convened both the head of Europol, but also the Commissioner responsible in consultation. As one of the key people in the liberal group in the European Parliament says, it is devastating for Europol's good name and reputation that there are such cases, and I therefore think that, when we are talking about what we can do in terms of making contact with Europol and a relationship with Europol and negotiations with Europol, it was not an idea to discuss how we can improve data security and be sure that there is proper data security so that we do not face this kind of disaster again.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201134655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201134657	Yes, I fully agree with that and, of course, we must also take part in that discussion. I just think that perhaps we would be listened to a little more if we knew that we were also a member after May next year. When we stand and say that it is a consequence of our choices that we are no longer involved in Europol cooperation after May, as it seems, I do not think that it is our voice that is listened to most. This corresponds to the fact, with all due respect for the Enhedslisten's principle of rotation, that if a member of the Enhedslisten disappears after the next parliamentary election and it was imminent it is not, but if it was imminent it may also be that it was not the voice that was listened most to perhaps unless it was Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201134741	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201134744	Thank you, sir. President. I really want to ask you about this with confidence. It was mentioned earlier that it is something that of course affects the citizens very much, in other words that there is security about the border controls that exist and that there is security associated with the sporadic investigations that we are doing at our border, for example. After all, we also have a large number of the tasks that lie within Europol, which are, among other things, the responsibility of Europol. We are fully in favour of combating terrorism. However, I would just like to ask the rapporteur what is constantly being said, namely that we are going out here next year in May, if nothing happens. Can the rapporteur just give me an argument that Denmark as such should be wanted as a criminal helmet here in Europe with our very large airport just a few kilometres away? Should we then experience that Denmark suddenly should become such a criminal hamlet, because all the other Europol countries will say: Now you can't join anymore, and that is why you shouldn't be allowed to fight terrorism in Denmark with the opportunities that you have and with the tools that are there. Can the rapporteur just give me an argument that one should choose to say: Denmark must not be included?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201134850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201134850-2	Yeah, I can do that. And I am a little surprised that this is necessary. Admittedly, it is almost a year ago, but we simply had a referendum here in the Kingdom a year ago, when we voted on the possibility of transforming the reservation of law into an electoral system. We voted against this. One of the consequences of this is that I find it quite shocking that I should reply to this; it is actually quite wild that we should get out of Europol when it is lifted to a supranational level. I actually thought that even in the Danish People's Party people were aware of that, i.e. what we were actually voting on. That's actually why we took that vote... it was to be able to be there. Then it was also about some other things, but that's what triggered it. And it is actually surprising that a rapporteur for the Danish People's Party did not even understand what that referendum was about.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201134939	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201134940	If I interpret the tone that the rapporteur suddenly had, then it wasn't so funny anymore. I think it is a rather sloppy way of answering when I ask why Denmark should be such a criminal hamlet. The rapporteur himself says that we are going out in May, and then we have no guarantees of anything. And, of course, we know that Europol cooperation, among other things. Is in favour of the fight against cross-border terrorism. So I ask the rapporteur: can the rapporteur give me a single argument that the other European countries in Europol should say: 'Ah, ah, now Denmark cannot join us, now we just have to make a wildcard scheme for criminals who can then fly in and out of Copenhagen Airports, etc.'? There I think the rapporteur should perhaps just give me an argument for that, because the rapporteur certainly did not do so in the first answer. The rapporteur now has the opportunity in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201135028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201135029	So, now I could say something a little polemical about the fact that I had to answer it, I think, perhaps not clever questions in the first round, then I should have foreseen the need to repeat the answer. Listen to this: Denmark has chosen to stand outside. Then the other countries say: Dear friends, you have chosen to stand outside. Let us discuss how to do this in practical terms. But the other countries should not force us to join when we have chosen not to join. Nor can we force the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to join the internal market because we are sorry that they have voted against staying in the European Union. Well, it doesn't work that way. It's our choice. It's not the others that's throwing us out. We're the ones leaving.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201135117	Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201135120	Yes, but in this debate perhaps not so much today, but in the press there have been many different statements about what we can expect to get with Europol. And now I could understand from the rapporteur from the Radical Left that this debate is about getting the facts on the table, so I would really like to know what the difference is between Europol light, a parallel agreement and a special agreement. In fact, this is the last two, because the government has done the clever trick of saying that we cannot have a parallel agreement, but that we can get a special agreement. I would really like to know where a special agreement is legally different from a parallel agreement. The rapporteur must be able to answer that, since it is the Left that has said that there is a difference there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201135215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201135216	I am delighted with this question, because it gives me the opportunity to recite part of my speech, in which I quote a lawyer from the rapporteur's own party. Morten Messerschmidt, for having said this: We can get a parallel agreement now it becomes interesting and here I am not talking about a Norwegian agreement or a Swiss agreement, no, a Danish agreement where you make a copy paste of our current terms. Quote out. In other words, according to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, who is also a lawyer and also a member of the Danish People's Party in the European Parliament, states that a parallel agreement is a reflection of the current terms and conditions. At least that is what the Danish People's Party promised the voters. I don't think that's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201135311	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201135313	That was not, in fact, a legal explanation of the difference between the two so-called agreements. But I would really like to ask you something else. Because I took note of the fact that the former Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Kristian Jensen, until Altinget took note that the agreement and it was then again on November 15 that Denmark would get would be better than Norway's. That's what they went for. It was an agreement that was better than Norway's... and that's what was possible. Then it might be interesting to hear the rapporteur where the rapporteur expects this agreement to be better than that of Norway.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201135355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201135356	I must admit that just because something is an explanation from a lawyer, that is of course not a legal explanation. Let me not mention the quality of various lawyers. But an agreement that is better than Norway's is, of course, what you have to go for. Surely we must go for an agreement that is as close to what we have today as possible. I assume that is also a wish of the Danish People's Party. I think it is a wish that we share here throughout the Folketing, so that we really want something that is as close to as possible • like better than what Norway has, because Norway has warned us against that. If we can get it, I don't know. Now there have been some who have said a lot about what such an agreement will contain. I do not know, but I hope that it contains as much as possible and that we will get as close as possible. But I do not really see any guarantee of it, as Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth's party could one year ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201135450	Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201135452	Thank you. It's always nice to hear, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen's optimistic position: we believe in it. I look forward to Thursday and hope that we can then read through the agreement if there is one and then try to assess it on the basis of what it says, and not what we can fear or hope and all those things. It's gonna be exciting. I'd like to hear Mr. Knox. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. I have discussed this with many people, including the Left, who already said on 4 December: we should never have taken such a complicated decision in a referendum. I believe that if you had proposed that we should have an intergovernmental agreement on Europol and had said that we would then take that step, the Danes would have said yes. That is what the majority of the Danes want. If we are to be a member of Europol, it must be through an intergovernmental agreement that we can also regret if it suddenly turns into something absolutely terrible, for example. that they can close our websites and other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201135600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201135601	I can follow Mr. Christian Juhl. After all, life must be lived forward and understood backwards. It is also the case that everything is clearer in the unbearably clear light of hindsight. I also think that I myself was one of those who woke up on 4 December in the morning and just sat and said: No, no, couldn't we have asked for something else? Because it wouldn't have gone so wrong. I think a lot of people did. The reason this vote contained what it did was a desire to bring with it many other good things. Much of the debate came to be about Europol. Much of what we have here today is also about Europol, but there were a lot of other things that a majority of Parliament's parties thought were a good idea to bring. The previous government, Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt's government, did quite a lot of work by involving these parties to sit and help to review each area and say: what is it that we want to be in, and what is it that we want to be outside? In this way we did a rough sorting in the first place, and then we gave ourselves, in other words the Folketing, the opportunity to join other things too. It is then possible that a different result had been achieved, but what we were hoping for was actually that we could have this opportunity to be in as much as possible where it made sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201135714	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201135714-2	It is quite true that you live forwards, but we had to take a position at that time. I chose one view, the rapporteur chose another, and then, in the clear light of hindsight, one can try to consider what we should do. I think it will happen on Thursday if there is an intergovernmental agreement which does not mean that we have full membership rights, but which means access to Europol, that the rapporteur will stand on the same platform and say: how well is it, Lars; how good is it; it is a good deal we have got home; it is well negotiated, and now we can move on, and our police will have good opportunities. It's just something I'm guessing, 'cause I can't know.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201135751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201135752	Well, it is clear that if we get an agreement that offers something close to the same opportunities that we have today, I will then run around with my arms in the air and think it's all nice, mainly because the Danish police will then continue to have the opportunity to arrest some of the incredibly bad people who sneak across the border and do covert things. I think that would be nice. There I am a big enough back flap to run around and also clapping the Prime Minister's back for it. So what? Well, I hope we get a good deal. Sir. Christian Juhl also talked about this with hope and fear, and I fear that we will not. I fear that we will end up in a place where we will not have those opportunities, and I think that is a pity.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201135831	Sir. Rune Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201135832	Part of the debate leading up to the vote on the whole legal reservation was about how likely or not likely it would be for Denmark to have an intergovernmental agreement on Europol parallel agreement, special agreement, an intergovernmental agreement may have many names. So my question to Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen is really about how likely Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen believes there is a need for such a parallel agreement. Will it be difficult, or is it something that is possible? What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201135911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201135912	I think that the likelihood of us getting a parallel agreement understood in the way I quoted Mr. Morten Messerschmidt for having defined it before is approx. 1:10,000 billion it's in round numbers. I just don't think that's gonna happen. But the likelihood that we will have some sort of agreement, I think, is certainly present, also on the basis of some of the arguments that have been in this Chamber today. I do not know how much it is going to contain, but someone has pointed out why other countries should have an interest in keeping us out, and they certainly have not. We're not going to be the Cayman Islands of child pornography, are we? Surely we must be a decent and upright country, which we can count on. Unfortunately, we have said no to all these parts, and I think the others are really sorry about that. I think they also have a desire to include us in as much as possible, but we must also respect the fact that we have chosen not to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201140005	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201140007	Maybe it's just me, but when I hear mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. When I have followed the debate from the yes side, including from the Left, and also from what I have been able to read Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen has said in the media, I have the impression that it was really difficult to get an intergovernmental agreement or a parallel or special agreement, which has often been used as synonyms for the same thing, precisely an intergovernmental agreement. But today I understand that Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen says that it will probably not be so difficult to reach an intergovernmental agreement. Is that how it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201140048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201140053	No, I would say without such experience in bookmaking that the figure I mentioned, i.e. approx. 1:10,000 billion, aren't very good odds. It was precisely the parallel agreement guaranteed by the Danish People's Party that Denmark could get. It's then 1:1, and then it's one to some incredibly high number that I don't remember how high was. I do not think the odds are particularly good for that, but I am a positive person, I wear the yeshat, even when I go to referendums, and I still hope that we can get some kind of agreement. Whether it's a good deal, I don't know, but some deal, if nothing else, so an agreement that you can sit at home and hump, I think we're gonna get • I just hope it won't be the one I just outlined.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201140138	Thank you. Then I don't have any more on the list. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201140156	Thank you. I would still like to start by saying that I think it is a rather strange debate to discuss: what if we go all the way out of Europol, in a situation in which every effort should be made to reach an intergovernmental agreement with Europol that is as good as possible. Well, that's what both the Minister of Justice and we should all focus our energies on. At least that is what we tried to advocate yesterday in Europol and yesterday in the European Union. There could have been more people from several parties to participate, as well as putting pressure on them. But that is what I think everyone should concentrate on in the current situation. I shall not conceal the fact that we have not been satisfied with the government in this process. We think the government has played too defensively. We could mention many governments in other countries, justice ministers in other countries, parties, etc. etc. We think it has come far too late. We also think that there have been some obvious opportunities along the way to bring this issue up in the debate, for example. When the agreement on Great Britain was discussed, where a Danish undertaking was needed. So we haven't been impressed with the government. But I would say that we are willing to give the benefit of the doubt, if the government comes back with an agreement which, on all the long stretches, is capable of placing us in a situation where we can have sound police cooperation. If the government does that, we'll just have to say that the government may not have been smarter than us, but at least smart enough and done what they were supposed to do. And then we have to withdraw our criticism. But it is a little difficult to do now, because we do not know what the result will be, so it will be such a very strange discussion. And when it does, it is clear that we will go back like that and say: what were we discussing during the referendum? How many of the arguments are the same? They are then just subject, what should we say, forgetfulness, but also what, like, fits in with interpreting the result. That is why I have to maintain from this platform that on 3 December 2015 we did not vote on Europol. It was not a referendum on 'yes' or 'no' to Europol. It was a referendum on a 'yes' or 'no' to 22 acts which had to be said 'yes' to, 8 to be said 'no' to, plus an infinite number of acts in the future, in which the power to say 'yes' was to be transferred from the population through referendums to politicians by a majority of votes. That was the vote we had. And that was the vote that the Danish people incredibly wisely said no to. Because that would have meant that the Danish people would forever lose their hands and deal with the law policy, so I think we could be very happy about that. It is clear that it then created the problem of how we then have police cooperation, and how do we do that police cooperation? That is why we went out and said two things. Firstly, we said: let us try to get an intergovernmental agreement and I will come back to why it should be an intergovernmental agreement. And if we do not get an intergovernmental agreement, we can always give the people the last word, and we did not say whether we should vote 'yes' or 'no', so we must always give the people the last word by making a referendum on Europol alone. And we shall vote in favour of holding that referendum. That is what we said and we stand by it. And if anyone in this Chamber makes such a proposal, we shall vote in favour of it. Because we actually think that the people should have the last word. In terms of how we stand, we will convene our board of directors and hold a meeting and then take a position on it, and then we will go out and announce it quite a few days after we have been told what is to be voted on, and that is the way it is. Why is it so important to us that this agreement should become intergovernmental? Because that is wrong, for example. Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen also suggested that there were parts we did not want Denmark to be part of. No, in relation to the Europol cooperation that has taken place, Denmark did not at any time demand anything that we did not want to be involved in, on the contrary. Denmark, and the government has also, I am sure, demanded that it should be included in all of this. So what's the only difference? The only difference between what we want and what we clearly say is that we want an intergovernmental agreement, because it allows us to withdraw at any given time. And why do we think it's important to be able to resign? We think so, among other things. because Denmark, if data security goes wrong and it turns out not to work, has an opportunity to say no and resign, and we think that is a very sensible position. That is certainly the position we stand for. We accept that other parties have different views, but that is our position.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201140742	I'd like to sign for Enhedslisten's honesty. I understand where you stand and what your attitude is. I think you're more honest than the Danish People's Party. But I also think that your attitude is very marked by whether it is now supranational or intergovernmental, in other words, your basic attitude towards the European Union. I would actually like to ask about Europol. How important does the Enhedslisten really consider Europol to be for the work of the Danish police, in other words for combating, preventing and solving crime? How important a tool would it be if the Danish police did not have that tool?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201140814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201140816	It is clear that in the European Union, where the five freedoms have been introduced, the freedom of labour, the freedom of capital, the freedom of services, the freedom of goods and the freedom of crime to flow across borders, you will obviously have to have cross-border police cooperation if you want to combat crime. That's the way it is. And we fully support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201140835	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201140838	I'm really glad to hear that. I was looking back into some quotes. Mrs. Pernille Skipper has said at one point that if you have access to that encyclopedia and that database, it probably doesn't do much. In Norway, they did well without that direct access. I am just really pleased to hear that the Enhedslisten actually believes that Europol is an important tool. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201140902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201140903	I just have to remind you that Norway is also with Europol. In fact, there are a number of countries that do. How to make that cooperation concrete is, after all, a balance between different things that are faced with each other. One is what information we gain access to and how quickly we get it. Do we get it within 3 seconds, or do we get it within 2 minutes? There may be some things on one side that weigh in one bowl. Something that can then weigh in the other bowl is that if it develops in the wrong direction, we can say no. I am a little surprised that Mrs Zenia Stampe, when we have this discussion today, does not take up the huge leak that has been. That's deeply troubling.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201140944	Thank you. Then there is no more on the list and we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line and the next one is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mrs Christina Egelund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201140957	Thank you. We are discussing this and trying to bring out the nuances of what the consequences will be if Denmark had to leave Europol per year. May 1st next year. This is, as many have also said, a hypothetical situation which I really do not hope will come true. At the same time, if we do nothing between now and the next few months, it is the seriousness of our situation. And that is why I welcome the debate on the question, because it is not an insignificant matter that we are potentially facing that scenario. When we look at the work of Europol, we are fully aware of why we should have European cooperation at all. It is a question of solving problems which are by their very nature cross-border, and it has to be said that criminals operating across borders, if anything, are. The Minister for Justice explained well the very concrete consequences that will happen if Denmark withdraws from Europol. Lack of access to information exchange, no liaison officer in The Hague, which ensures close cooperation and close dialogue between the police authorities of the countries, lack of access to the analysis capacity of Europol, which is particularly important in the fight against cybercrime, and then, of course, exclusion from being covered by the work of combating terrorism, which Europol is also carrying out. So it has concrete consequences for Denmark and for the Danish police if we have to leave Europol, and that is why we should of course not sit on our hands either. Both the former and the present government are working to get an agreement on continued Danish participation home, and like Mrs Zenia Stampe, I have no reason to call into question the efforts of the then or present government in this regard. When we know the conclusions of those negotiations, we must carefully assess the outcome of them and, on that basis, decide whether we are satisfied with the outcome or whether we should go into a new referendum which will ensure Denmark full and full participation in Europol. It is my view that the Liberal Alliance believes that there is a collective responsibility on the part of the Danish Parliament to ensure that the Danish police have as good tools as possible to combat international crime, and it certainly does not disagree with us that we should. So I understand if some people are wondering: how does this really relate to the fact that last year the Liberal Alliance recommended a no in the vote we had? It is, of course, related to the fact that, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard also explained that last year he did not vote on Europol alone. If it had only been a vote on Europol, we would have recommended a yes without anguish, and we have said so all the time, but we decided on a single package containing 21 other legal acts, and our position on that was that the democratic procedure should be put to death, which is that of course we should either have a broad majority in the Folketing or ask the people every time we give up sovereignty to, for example. EU. So our position is clear. We have always believed that it is important for Denmark to continue in Europol. We have also always argued that there could be two tracks to ensure continued participation. One track is a parallel agreement or another type of operational agreement with the EU on it. That could be the one lead. If we did not succeed, we have always been very clear about the fact that then we were ready to take a new referendum on the Europol issue alone, and there we would recommend a 'yes' to such a vote. That is what we said before the referendum last year, and of course we stand by that today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201141351	There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201141357	I think that there are many people out there in the whole country who are thinking a little bit: the Liberal Alliance is an EU-sceptic party and now they have come into government and how it will be reflected in the government base. You may have been a little disappointed, but let it go. I would really like to know: how does the Liberal Alliance view itself? I think I know, but there may be some outside these walls who do not really know about border controls? So, is it the Liberal Alliance's view that border controls should preferably be abolished?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201141433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201141437	After all, we are in favour of Schengen. We've always been, and we're still gone. We are in favour of the open internal borders in Europe, provided that there is a solid guarding of Europe's external borders. That is why we have also supported the idea, and I am counting on it to be the continuing policy of the present government, that when it is necessary to abolish internal borders, namely that the external borders are not properly guarded, there is a temporary border control at the Danish borders. And as long as the situation is such that the external borders are not properly guarded, then we are in favour of guarding them ourselves. But the ideal, if that is what the rapporteur is thinking about, is that we have a solid guarding of Europe's external borders so that we can have open internal borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201141520	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201141523	All right, so the EU-Sceptic Liberal Alliance is in favour of open borders. That's good, so we got it settled. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: in February, the extension of the current border controls will expire. Is it the view of the Liberal Alliance as a governing party that the best thing would be for us to be able to abolish that border control in February and therefore have open borders again in March?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201141553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201141556	That would be a happy situation, because that would then mean that we were in a situation where there was a solid guarding of the external borders. So I hope that's where we are, but I can't know that. I do not know what the situation will be like at Europe's external borders in three months' time, but I hope that we will be where it will be justifiable to abolish internal borders. However, I can say so much that if the situation is as it is today, then we will probably support the continuation of national border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201141620	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur for the alternative, and that is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201141629	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Zenia Stampe for calling this question debate. In fact, I think it is an important debate, although it may be difficult, because we do not know what kind of agreement it is that might be in place. I really think we should use this debate to talk about substance and not about this embarrassing quiz-like piece of information that we experienced earlier today. What is it important for us to have in the agreement that is coming? Where are some points where we think we would like to look and ask: is this included, because it is important? A great deal has already been said about police relations in relation to searching for one thing or another, and I must say straight away that I am not part of the police and do not know the exact search methods in these databases. After all, we in Europe have chosen to strengthen Europol. Europol will be more important and stronger next year, and when more power is given to an agency, it is also important that there is a counterpoint. Something that I was also very concerned about when we talked about the last year of the election campaign was the part that concerns parliamentary control of Europol. I attended the European Parliament on Monday, it was an interparliamentary meeting with national parliamentarians and MEPs. In addition to the usual speeches, which are always about where the meetings were to be held, there was in fact a very important discussion about how we should use this parliamentary control, because when we give power to a body such as Europol, which has a lot of important data, it is important that we have control over it. That's one of the things we're preoccupied with, so there's these good forms of counterweight in power. And what I can be worried about, when I'm reading about how an agreement might look, is actually that we're not part of it, and I would think that was really a shame. So, of course, I look forward, like everyone else, to seeing how these negotiations are progressing and what kind of agreement is coming. And one of the things that I will certainly look for a lot, and which I hope is part of it, is that we will also have proper control over this new great power that Europol is, after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201141850	No brief comments have been made, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. That is the rapporteur from the SF, and that is Mr SF. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201141907	As others have also said, I think the debate here may also have the shortcoming that we do not know any of the premises that we should actually have known. Negotiations are currently under way on an agreement of one nature or another, and we do not know the outcome of those negotiations. That is why it would perhaps have been more appropriate if this question had been postponed. Let it be said. It is difficult to go there in a very specific way because one can say: what if, if and if? What we can at least see is that the Danish People's Party has for a long time been on the verge of escaping from what was said in the referendum last year, on the wild, on the run, and has faced some of the worst political fraud seen here in the Danish Parliament in recent years. I have to say that, and I find that rather embarrassing for the Danish People's Party. But it also had a consequence for the referendum last year. That was a 'no' last year, and it is clear that it will have consequences. After all, the fraud was that it was claimed that a 'no' would have no consequences in relation to Europol. Of course it would, and I guess that's what people voted for in a sense or whatever. That is why it is obvious that it would have consequences, and what we will then have to find out is how to move forward from there. We'll see when that deal comes. We cannot say here today whether we want to say one thing or the other. It depends, of course, on the concrete nature of the agreement, and it also depends on whether the 'no' side will take responsibility for perhaps getting a better agreement in some way and whether it will mean a new referendum afterwards. We don't really know that either. So that means that there are so many unknown factors that there is not much more to say than that we need to continue discussions with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201142144	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201142147	I'll take note of that, sir. Holger K. Nielsen says that it is a difficult debate to take because we do not know the conditions under which we take the debate. Well, we don't know the deal. But then Mr. Holger K. Nielsen nevertheless has occasion to make such a strange attack on the Danish People's Party and say that we are some con artists. That's a relatively powerful word to take in your mouth. I wouldn't take that in my mouth with Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen, unless I had solid legal proof that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen had committed a crime, and I have not. So I just have to say that I think it is something strange. And that's why I'd just like to hear sir. Holger K. Nielsen, on Mr. Holger K. Nielsen perhaps qua his contacts in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from his time as Foreign Minister, although he was not so long, has some information which he will share with us and which can also confirm that very violent expression of fraud.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201142250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201142253	When it comes to violent expressions, I do not think that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth is no novice. It is not my impression that he is particularly delicate in this respect. No, I haven't contacted the Ministry at all. I am talking only about the situation that could arise if it was a bad agreement. We're talking hypothetically, and that's where it was, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl stretched out a lifeline throughout the situation. We discussed last year whether we could get a proper parallel agreement. It was claimed that we could, a so-called copy-paste agreement, as Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen quoted Mr Ellemann-Jensen. Morten Messerschmidt for saying earlier. Okay, we had some doubts about that. And then Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl trumped on and said: in any case, if we cannot have a proper parallel agreement, we can hold a new referendum. Would we then also take the consequences with regard to Schengen? was asked. Yeah, he said so. That is what we have completely run from, and I think we should get to the electorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201142359	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201142402	I think, in fact, that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen underestimates the electorate if Mr. Holger K. Nielsen does not think that message has slipped in. I think that it is, and I think that, in fact, many of our constituents are quite happy that we are sticking to the fact that we want border controls. But I note quietly that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, despite his time in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is therefore not aware of any information which the rest of the Folketing is not aware of.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201142425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201142428	No, I can assure you. I don't know anything about those negotiations. It would also be completely inappropriate if I did. I shall not comment on DF's relationship with the electorate. I think there are some difficulties at the moment. Isn't there, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201142445	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201142448	Thank you to Holger K. Nielsen. I'll take your leave, sir. Holger K. Nielsen one question. In case a constituent had come to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, on the basis of the rapporteur's extensive experience in politics for many years, had said: Holger it is a quote • Holger, I am in doubt about what to vote. On the one hand, I am in favour of police cooperation, because the European Union has opened up all that cross-border, and that is why we also have to have cross-border police cooperation, so I am in favour of that, but on the other hand I am completely opposed to leaving a decision on future sovereignty to politicians. I still think we as a people should be allowed to decide that in referendums. Holger's again quote... how am I supposed to vote? What did Mr. Holger K. Nielsen then has replied to the voter in question?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201142543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201142546	I got that question many times. I would say 'yes' vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201142550	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201142553	Well, sir. Holger K. Nielsen explains, especially in the light of the deception and fraud, etc., because if he wanted to avoid the transfer of sovereignty from the population to the politicians, there was only one way to vote, namely to vote no. We have also heard that from the Liberal Alliance. There was only one way to vote if we did not want to vote politically, and that was to vote no. That's why I might think it's very fresh from Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen to stand and interpret the election result when Mr. Holger K. Nielsen cannot even answer such a simple question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201142626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201142629	I answered the simple question. Is it fresh? Oh, my God, there's a difference of opinion between Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard and me. I think so, sir. Søren Søndergaard said before, I'm sorry, I'm saying this is nonsense, and I also said that during the referendum campaign. But Mr. Søren Søndergaard meant something else, and Mr. Søren Søndergaard was right in relation to the people, I have to say that he did. But it doesn't make it right anymore. We must abide by that, of course we do, but that does not mean that Mr. Søren Søndergaard was right in my opinion. We still disagree on that part of the referendum last time. But that is something quite different from this notorious run away from what was specifically said, as Mr. Thulesen Dahl is out in. I don't think that's comparable.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201142715	Thank you. There are no more inscribed for short remarks. We thank the rapporteur. I do not see any rapporteur for Conservatives, so we have finished the rapporteur's line of work this time and we are giving the floor to the Minister for Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201142743	Thank you for that and thank you for a good discussion. I really want to be very brief, because the question today sounds like what the consequences would be if Denmark had to withdraw from Europol. I think I have explained this to the best of my ability in my reply in the 10 minutes that I now had at my disposal, i.e. what the consequences would be. Then I understand that in such a discussion that we are having with each other today, there are many facets, and we are quickly getting into something that might spread a little beyond the issue itself. That is understandable. However, I hope that the speech I gave and the answers I gave after the 10 minutes will not ever be forthcoming. Well, that's not the idea. The idea isn't that it's gonna come true. For the consequences that have been listed if we are out of Europol, I think that is clear enough. What I hope, or do we all hope for, is that the government is working for us to get the best possible agreement, so that after 1 May 2017 we have an agreement that can be used for something and makes sense for the Danish police. Whether we get it isn't settled yet. We are working hard to get an agreement, and that is also why the Prime Minister sent a letter to the party leaders indicating that the Prime Minister will inform the party leaders next week about where we are in the process. And that must then be the starting point for what needs to be done further. That is why I think it is right that the government should try, as far as possible, to clarify what is on the way and on the basis of which it informs the parties. It is very difficult, actually impossible, for me to say exactly what such an agreement might look like if we get an agreement. I very much hope we do. But the question about the question here is about the consequences if we are out, and I have explained that has some fairly clear consequences. We fight so that the consequences will never come into force. I think that is what I have to say here, and I will, of course, be happy to answer some questions. But the debate has spread a great deal, and I think I will stick to what I was actually asked about.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201143104	Thank you, Minister. And then we have a brief comment from Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201143112	I think it is quite understandable that the Minister should take that approach, and I do not want to ask all sorts of details either, but just ask one thing, because we are so close to the finish line on the issue of a possible intergovernmental agreement. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister, and that is such a more sentimental question: can we be sure that the Minister will only recommend an agreement to the Folketing, which the Minister thinks is, if not perfect, so that it can carry through, until something better may come later? So, can we be confident that the Minister is committed to the fact that what is being recommended to the Folketing as a result of the negotiations is also something that the Minister stands for?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201143202	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201143205	Of course I won't stand by and recommend anything I can't vouch for. But it must be the case that the negotiations are now running and then we will have a result, and when that result is there, hopefully we will have that is what we are all hoping for a result that can be used forward-looking. I hope so with all my heart.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201143224	When Mr. Søren Søndergaard will not use her second brief remark, it is Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201143229	Thank you for a very good debate. And I have full respect for the fact that we cannot discuss the possible agreement that might be reached. Nevertheless, I would like to ask: if we get an agreement and it gives limited access to Europol's information system, in other words, where there is a certain delay, would that be a noticeable deterioration for the Danish police and police to combat and solve crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201143302	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201143305	Yeah, it will, depending on how it looks. In other words, what is absolutely essential is the availability of databases and not of databases, such as the Internet. Norway has today, when a request is made, and then it needs to be dealt with equally. Well, access to direct search seems to me to be absolutely crucial to the possibilities of the police in this context. So, of course, it will mean something. And that is also why the government is working all it can to create the best possible agreement for the benefit of the Danish police and thus for the benefit of all of our security and security.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201143342	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201143345	Can it be imagined that the consequences of this type of restricted or degraded conditions will be even greater in the long term as Europol becomes stronger and uses more modern technology? I have heard something about working with more mobile units, in other words, where the individual police officer in his police car will be able to search Europol. Does this mean that the long-term consequences can really be more serious than they are in the short term?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201143415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201143419	I have to be careful what I say here, but I will insist that the longer we move away from the opportunities we have today in Europol, the weaker we stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201143432	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister. Then we'll take another round, where Mr. Knox... Søren Søndergaard has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201143443	Yeah, and it's just a temporal thing. I just need to read out a proposal for adoption from the Enhedslisten. Proposals for adoption The Parliament looks very seriously at the leak in Europol of highly confidential information that has just emerged and calls on the government to prepare a statement on the matter, including whether the relevant bodies were immediately informed. At the same time, the Folketing instructs the government to intensify its efforts to finalise an intergovernmental agreement on Denmark's future position in the future Europol. • V 17).
ParlaMint-DK_20161201143515	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Tuesday 6 December 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201143529	The debate is open. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201143550	The proposers have proposed the introduction of a ban on the adoption of minority rights in public institutions. The proposal shall state the reasons on which it is based, inter alia: That is why, as a society, we accept that, for example, there should be a ban on the use of hormones. If we are to create gender-separated swimming teams in order to accommodate a minority, we will be able to accept that social control is being exercised. As the comments on the motion for a resolution also show, there has been a debate in the press earlier this year on various particular issues, such as: in relation to gender-separated swimming. In the spring I said that it may well be that at some point we will have to use more robust means and simply demand that local authorities put an end to special considerations which are detrimental to integration. On the same occasion, and this does not appear from the comments made on the motion for a resolution, I also said that I would prefer it to remain as it is, that is, that local authorities take responsibility and that it is still the local authorities that decide. Now, six months have passed since the debate on special considerations took off, and I think it is a good thing that today we have an opportunity to just stop and discuss whether there is a need for new measures. The advocates of multiculturalism will probably think that integration is about adaptation from both sides and that we must all compromise and meet halfway. I'm up against that. This is a wrong path which has marked the last 30 years of desert migration in the field of integration. A sour cocktail of misguided tolerance mixed with fear of touch and speciality has meant that today we have a very high value bill to pick up and it is not going to be easy. For that is a problem when girls are still not allowed to participate in sport because they are restricted simply because they are girls. It is certainly a good thing to learn how to swim, but integration is now much more important, and therefore one cannot be integrated, by continuing in Denmark outdated gender traditions and perceptions that activities for women must be kept separate from activities for men. It is a problem when we see examples of trying to sneak Danish traditions out of our public institutions, whether it is about the meatball at the nursing home or the school's marking of Christian festivals. So we are in complete agreement on the objective. However, the government still does not believe that new legislation is the right way forward. We do not believe this because we in the government attach the utmost importance to the consideration of local self-government, and here it is already the case that the municipalities have the possibility of abolishing, for example. gender-separated swimming if the offer is religiously conditional. The municipality of Aarhus has recently e.g. I have been told that similar considerations are taking place in the municipality of Kolding. Such actions do not directly raise questions about religious freedom, as some would otherwise think, nor about the protection provided by Article 67 of the Constitution, nor Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights. So you can do that, and I think it is an important debate to go around the municipalities. However, we are in complete agreement on the objective, and the government does not believe that at present there is a need for the Folketing to regulate in detail how the municipal authorities deal with matters relating to minorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201144018	There are a few brief comments. First, Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201144025	It is very sad to hear the Minister say that the Minister does not think there is anything we should do at this stage, precisely because the Minister himself mentions 30 years of failed integration policy. But the Minister will continue to do so because the Minister will not legislate from in here on this. When we talk about these special concerns in public institutions, it is not just about gender-separated swimming lessons. It is also about praying rooms that enter the institutions and about the meatball that disappears from the day institutions. So what does it take for the Minister to act from in here as a legislator?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201144104	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201144107	Well, I think this is exactly an example of why I would rather not have us legislate and not need it. When you look at the debate we had this summer, or at least earlier this year, you can see that it was just about the fact that in some places they divided swimming lessons. So you can live and live in Denmark without being able to swim. It is often a huge advantage to be able to swim, but you just can't live here without being integrated, at least not if you're going to be a real part of Danish society and a real part of Danish everyday life. But after the debate we had in the open room, you have to say that the municipality in Aarhus also changed the procedure, and today you no longer have this split swimming training, which I think is very good. Because then you will actually have a discussion about where we want to bring Denmark, and in that discussion we will not disagree either Mrs Karina Adsbøl and I or the government and the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201144212	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201144215	I still find it difficult to understand the minister, because the minister then says that the municipality of Aarhus is about to change this. Yes, it's one municipality out of 98 municipalities. Does the Minister consider this to be satisfactory? I'm here with a newspaper article from April 27, which says: "V on gender-separated swimming pools: Swim together or leave the country. That is precisely what the Minister is saying. That is why I find it difficult to understand that the Minister will not act and will not make legislation in this area, so that we can provide a clear framework and make it clear that we, as legislators, simply will not accept this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201144256	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201144259	Now it is almost insulted that the municipality of Aarhus has done this. Well, not all municipalities have this kind of swimming lessons. Now you had it in some municipalities, and if you do away with it now, after you've thought a little about it, then I guess it's pretty good. I do not think we should legislate on everything from here, but I think it is important that we have the debate and also move some things through the debate. And then I have said that it may be that in the long term we may have to legislate, but I do not think we are there now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201144332	Then it's mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201144335	Thank you. I fully share the Minister's view that the problem is very real in the sense that we all agree on this, but that the tool here is not the right one, that is to say, the tool of legislative and detailed government in the municipalities. The question then is what tools there are. Is there anything else we can do? I'm sure there is. And is there anything else we could do together? In this context, I would like to hear whether it is not obvious that, in the light of the debate we have today, the Minister is now calling for a meeting with the parties in the Folketing who would like to take part in the steel industry in this area in order to protect our young people. I mean, we could have a talk about whether there were any tools we could use.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201144421	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201144423	I think that is an excellent question, because there is certainly more that we can do. However, some of this has already been discussed, it might be said, in the wage-pool negotiations. Because it is also a question of getting rid of parallel societies and other things, and I must also say that in this area I do not think that there is much difference between a great many of us. But it is a long, cool move, and I am also happy to discuss it with the Socialists. Perhaps it is one of the most important things in the pool negotiations, because it is one of the places where we actually have some means to do something about it. I think it is an excellent debate to take and also to go with each other sometimes, which is why I think it is good that there is a resolution like this today. Once again, I believe that many of us share the view that you can live and live in Denmark without being able to swim, for example. It's a great advantage, but you just can't be a part of the ordinary Danish everyday life if you don't accept that here men and women and girls and boys are worth equally much, and here we grow, for example. sport together.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201144536	I think, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff said no to his second brief remark, and then we proceed to Pernille Bendixen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201144557	Thank you very much. The Minister's own party, or rather the three-clover government, should get used to it, has come up with a proposal that children should be forced into day care precisely in order to strengthen their language, i.e. the bilingual children. And that is because it has come to the realization that these children are excluded and do not become part of the community, and they are not, of course, integrated either. That goes without saying. So there you can sense that some things are happening because we simply have to bring these people into the community if they're going to be here. We can't live in two different worlds. That is why we in the Danish People's Party think that it also calls for a little action by the Minister. I fully understand the argument about municipal autonomy, and I think we all agree on that, but there has to be a limit where we, as Parliament, take action and say: enough is enough. And then you can take swimming as something separate. But another thing is this halal food sneaking in, especially in the day institutions. And you just have to say, it's our kids eating that halal food. You can have many opinions on that, but it is not right that we should have another culture forced down our throats.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201144652	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201144655	It is even forced down the throat so very literally, one can say when it comes to halal meat. In view of the fact that we are forcing children into day care, I would say that this is indeed something that is many years ago, because back in the 00s we introduced language tests for children, and the young children who do not master the Danish language at a sufficiently high level must then go to a day care institution. Now we can see that many more children do. But now the problem is just that there is some clumping up of those children, for if the institution, for example, is. Lying on a ghetto area, children go to kindergarten, which is rather ghettoized, if you can put it that way. And that's the next problem we're gonna have, and we're gonna have to deal with what we're gonna do about it. In terms of day care and food and all these things, I actually think it is important again, for example. as a parent board to take this up and have a discussion with each other, but also with the municipal council. We also have to be careful sometimes that we not only centralize the difficult decisions at Christiansborg, but also each takes responsibility for society moving in the direction we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201144807	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201144815	Thank you. Yes, the parents' boards also need to get on the ground, and the parents themselves need to get on the ground. But there's also some bullying going on out there. You know, when you're a parent saying you're not, you get to be, and you can see that on the intranet, that's how the other parents bully you. And it's a bit awkward if you just want to be free of halal meat and then have to be bullied for it. When the Minister says that at some point we need to use more robust means, I would just like to say that we would really like to know when it will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201144841	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201144844	I said that it can, but I do think that the Swimming Education case is a good example of the fact that when you think about and discuss a solution, then you choose the model that we all want here, at least the two of us, namely that swimming lessons take place together, women and men across, because it is an important value here in Denmark that you can play together.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201144919	We thank the Minister and move on to the rapporteur's line. First, it's sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201144941	I can see where you want to come up with this proposal. We want to put an end to the negative social control which, for example, gender-separated swimming instruction can be an expression of. Yesterday, in the Committee on Gender Equality, we had a hearing on this very subject, and we had a very clear insight into how much damage it can do, not only to integration, but also to the individual, to being subjected to negative social control, not least for children and young people. As I have seen the debate and what the various politicians and parties have said, it is my impression that we all agree that gender-separated swimming lessons for boys and girls behind roll-down curtains and the whole thing is certainly not something that promotes equality. This is not something that promotes freedom for children and young people. It is probably well-intentioned, but it is a misguided consideration which does more harm than good. That kind of action is also out there, and of course we have to problematize them every time we see them show up. However, the proposal here is not the right way to go. We must not by law ban all the public institutions in the Kingdom the possibility of taking account of a minority, and that will hit too widely. Let us say that the same swimming pool intended to make an effort to ensure that young people and children with disabilities could learn to swim and that it requires special effort and special consideration in order to become a good experience. In any case, preventing this would not be what we want with the proposal here. It would be deeply tragic if we were to ban a municipality and a swimming pool, a public institution, from Christiansborg, from doing this sort of thing. It's just to give an example of it. I know that this is not where the proposal is going. But it's just to say that when you hit as wide as you do with this proposal, you hit everything you don't want to hit. So let's not panic and shoot gray sparrows with guns. I also believe that if we did this, the Minister would get a mayor or two on the phone quite quickly, who thought that we should now keep our hands off them and that they should not be deprived of the opportunity to do some special work. So we cannot support this specific resolution, and I do not think it should be adopted. On the other hand, the intentions of the proposal and the issues raised as problems, which the Danish People's Party Member also raised with the Minister, are very, very relevant, and these are problems that we must take seriously. Because it is doing so much damage, not just to integration, but to all those children and young people who, in other words, must have a fair chance in life and not be subjected to negative social control. So let us together see if, when we agree, we can move in the same direction. And the Socialists are certainly prepared to do so in the further work on this motion for a resolution, in other words that we can adopt a joint text or otherwise try to move in the same direction. We are prepared to do so. However, we cannot support the specific proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201145334	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201145339	Thank you. The joint adoption sounds positive, but about the second part, that is to say the derailment of the debate and bringing people with disabilities and other things into this, I can say that this is not what this is all about. The rapporteur knows this very well. I find it embarrassing that the rapporteur is trying to derail the debate precisely in relation to it, because this is, after all, about social control, and that is precisely why it is an example of gender-separated swimming education. This isn't about the petanque team or the senior team. This is precisely about social control and other special considerations for minorities. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur agrees with his chairman, who wrote on his Facebook page: As a mother and a politician, I am so opposed to gender-separated swimming and tinted windows. Does the rapporteur not agree, then, that girls and women should not be restricted in sport and that they should participate on equal terms with all others without any misunderstanding? And what will the rapporteur do to limit this when the rapporteur does not want to legislate from in here?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201145446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201145449	It sounds as if the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has written this question before the rapporteur heard my speech. I think I say this not once or twice, but three times, i.e. how problematic it is with these totally misunderstood special considerations; how limiting it is for the opportunities of children and young people to become an active and well-functioning part of this society. So the short answer to the question of whether I agree with my President is that I think it is so well worded. In all modesty, I tried to formulate something similar in my speech. I can do that as many times as it has to be, and I think we are in complete agreement on this in this Chamber. I haven't heard anyone else say anything else. Maybe it'll come today. I believe that the Danish People's Party must learn to know the difference between a fist and an outstretched hand, and what I am giving here today is an outstretched hand, compared to the fact that we want to help solve some of the problem. However, with this resolution, the government will be required to impose a ban on minority interests in public institutions, and that will therefore be very wide-ranging.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201145555	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201145559	Thank you. I'd be happy to accept the outstretched hand. It's not always a social democrat, so thank you for that. However, I do not know whether the rapporteur has noticed that it says at the end of the proposal: the authors of the proposals are prepared to take part in a further discussion of the drafting of the draft law, including the demarcations of the ban. A motion for a resolution cannot write everything down. That is why we have the debate here today. That is why the last two lines are precisely in the proposal. So I would like to hear what the rapporteur is going to do in the future so that we can take initiatives in this area and help in particular minority women and girls who are subjected to social control.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201145639	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201145642	Well, it's almost Christmas, so there must of course be room for a little kindness in the political too, so there are plenty of expansive hands from here especially in this important area. We are in fact in favour, I am just saying most of what we believe can benefit equality, can benefit integration and can ensure real opportunities and real freedom for those people who will be the new citizens who will work well in this democracy. So we're in on it all, but we're not in on it to hit everyone else negative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201145717	I agree that there should be kindness, just not when there is excessive overrun of speaking time. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201145724	Thank you very much. The rapporteur talks a lot about social control and how much it fills. And it fills everything. We know this is in every aspect of life. And they're little things, and they're big things. Then the rapporteur says that we should not panic and make panic solutions and things like that. But integration has failed over the last 30 years. We have ghettos soon said everywhere there are parallel societies. It's a huge problem. So I would really like if the rapporteur, when he does not want to be involved in legislation, could put some words on what the rapporteur imagines we can do, as has not already been done.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201145800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201145801	I don't mind making laws. It would be boring to be a member of parliament if you were never to legislate. So there can easily be areas and there will certainly be areas where it makes sense to legislate. I do not think it makes sense to implement the law proposed here by the Danish People's Party on a ban. This would mean that I should be involved in imposing a ban on the government on minority interests in all public institutions. I think that is going far beyond the target. I'm trying to do a friendly reading of your suggestions and I can see the intentions. You want to go somewhere that the Social Democratic Party would also like to go to. You will ensure real freedom and real equality for these children and young people, which is what this is all about. So we are in on the measures that are needed, and we would also very much like to engage in dialogue with the government and the Danish People's Party and the rest of the Danish Parliament's parties. But now this is the proposal we are debating, it is B 13, it is the proposal of the Danish People's Party that we are debating. I just have to say that I cannot support it, but I am happy to take part in the debate. Excuse me, Chairman.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201145909	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201145912	I know what kind of proposal we are dealing with. It is a proposal for social control. And the rapporteur says he wants to help ensure freedom and equality. Then I ask how the rapporteur will help to ensure this if the rapporteur does not want to be involved in legislation and such an approach to an area that we have not already tried to address over the last 30 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201145930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201145932	As I said in my first reply, I have nothing against legislation at all. It's a tool. Sometimes it can be the right thing, and sometimes it's not necessarily the right thing. I do not think it is right to legislate and impose on all the municipalities of the country that they should not take account of any kind of minority in their public institutions. I believe that it would be a huge and fatal blunder on the part of the Folketing if we so wished to completely regulate all public institutions in this way and to limit them. That is why I say no to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201150005	Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201150009	I attached myself to the section on gender segregation by the Social Democrat rapporteur, and I fully agree that gender segregation can be problematic. But then I would just like to draw attention to some of the gender-separated organisations that we have ourselves, for example. The Green Girl Scouts. Their website says very beautifully: "Girls who dare. Girl Scouts get through challenging activities dressed to dare more and find their own legs to stand on. It is, moreover, a scouting organization that is a Christian in its foundation of values. I would like to hear the rapporteur's position on Christian Girl Scouts, i.e. a gender-separated Scout organization based on a Christian basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201150052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201150054	After all, I have a past in DUI-LEG and VIRKE, which is the workers' movement's counterpart to the Green Girl Scouts, and what else is of Scouts and FDFs around the country. It is not my impression that such negative social control is exercised by the Green Girl Scouts in Denmark. Nor is it my impression that it in any way restricts the freedom of girls and women and the ability to become an active part of society. It may be that Mrs. Zenia Stampe knows something I don't know, but I haven't yet encountered any problems with the Green Girl Scouts on this field. But if there's something I haven't discovered, then Mrs. Zenia Stampe must finally make me smarter. It's always nice to get smarter here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201150153	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201150154	I don't have a problem with the Green Girl Scouts either. I think I'd pick another scouting movement for my girl, because I think it would be a good thing for her to go with boys, too. But I don't mind if they exist. What I just think is remarkable is that the argument they are using is completely the same argument that sports use in relation to the gender-separated swimming, where there has been total support for the Capital's Swim Club. They say this is a way to strengthen the girls. And as the equal opportunities rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff has been a number of years and he probably knows about the history of the Danish women's movement, and part of it was also about going to a beer camp and doing women's activities, building each other up, giving each other strength and courage.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201150236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201150237	I tried very hard in my speech to say that gender-separated swimming education can I think that the cases that we have been presented to in the press and which have also been brought forward here today are an expression of negative social control, and we must hit hard on everything where we encounter negative social control. We cannot in any way tolerate the fact that children and young people are being restricted in the way we see them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201150311	Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201150313	I am glad that I am not the Social Democrat rapporteur and that I have to balance in this area. I can figure out that I must have suffered terribly much damage during my childhood, where I have consistently gone to a girl's gym only with girls. It is also a form of consideration, perhaps, or control, perhaps. I do not know whether the rapporteur can answer that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201150339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201150340	Mrs. Marianne Jelved shouldn't be worried about me at all. I have an amazing job, not least today. In fact, I did not know that Radicals are where I have a feeling that they are. I think it is strange to equate systematic social control, as we have seen here in the case of gender-separated swimming lessons with roll-down curtains, and what else belongs to Girl Scouts or this club, which I just didn't get to catch what one is. In any case, I am sure that my colleague has not been harmed by it. Isn't it a little weird to make that comparison? I do not think it shows an understanding of how dangerous this problem is for integration, for equality and for the people, the many, many children and young people who are being let down today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201150448	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201150450	You could also try looking at it from a slightly different angle. It is not the girls themselves who are taking this initiative. It is also Danish athletes who contribute. That is, for example, the case. the case of a swimming pool. They agree with the idea of giving the girls so much raw strength that they can actually do better, even with regard to the supposed social control that is inherent in it so far. I believe that there is a potential for development for some girls who need that opportunity for development. Could the Socialist rapporteur not try to see it from that angle? It could be that they became braver and could do more because they gained self-confidence because of what they learned.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201150534	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201150535	I don't think we're doing these kids a favor. As I said in my speech, I am convinced that this is a well-intentioned speciality, but a misunderstood speciality which pushes back equality, which pushes back integration and which helps to support others who can exercise negative social control over the people, young people and children that we want to have become well-functioning democratic citizens in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201150609	Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201150613	Thank you. I would like to follow up on what the rapporteur has just said, namely that this particular aspect pushes back equality and integration, but what about freedom of religion? Does it not also push back religious freedom? In other words, if we assume that the reason why some girls do not want to bathe with boys is that it is in their faith, do we not, as a society, have an obligation to respect the fact that there are various acts based on one's faith? Are we not a country that has always placed our freedom of religion very high? Then why don't we do it in this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201150650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201150651	This is because equality and democracy should always be above religious considerations in Danish society, at all times. I cannot find a single example of my wish to bow neither to equality nor to democracy nor to the rights of young people and children to become well-functioning citizens in this country because of some religious peculiarities.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201150713	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201150714	But where exactly is it that equality is harmed here? Doesn't it take much more damage if these girls and women who can go swimming because there are only other women there, stay at home, behind the walls of the house? Isn't that for much more damage?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201150736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201150737	We must have dialogue with them, with parents, schools, people in swimming pools and with young people, and we must not in any way signal, either from here, in the municipalities or from people from swimming pools or other institutions, that we think it is okay that we think it is sensible that we think it is a necessary evil and that we have given up on behalf of equality. We shouldn't give up. I refuse to give up. I'm gonna fight. I know this is not easy, but I will fight to the end for the right of these young people and children to be well-functioning citizens of this society. I believe that we have failed many of them for many years, and that must stop now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201150812	There are no more brief comments. So we say thank you, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201150826	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for the floor. The latest figures I have seen show that well over one in four Danish minority boys and girls are subject to strong social control. It is social control to an extent that means that little girls are restricted in playing with ethnic Danish boys and girls. You can't choose the girlfriend you want. There are people you must associate with, and people you must not associate with. Special rules apply to how to dress. Older girls who are going to see Danish men a little too close can risk getting beat up by their brothers. We have a serious problem in some places in this society because there are parallel perceptions of how to move and live in Denmark. Yesterday we had a question debate in the Chamber about what to do to stop biker and gang crimes. There I mentioned that the people we are talking about bear such a small mark, where it says 1%. It's a brand that signals to the rest of the world that these people don't think they should follow the laws and rules that apply to society. Although we cannot draw a direct parallel, it is rather the same problem that we have when there are people at home who believe that the common standards of democracy, a society in which gender is equal, do not exist in the family they have. There are more important family hierarchies, traditions and concepts of honour. That is why I think it is important to debate it. As both the Minister and the rapporteurs before me have explained, this is a proposal to ban minority considerations in public institutions. We have talked about it in the Folketing before in various forms. Some years ago it was about meatballs and hamburger back in kindergartens; now it is so swimming we are talking about. The position we have in the Left Party is indeed the same. There are a lot of good intentions in this resolution, and I also believe that we should take a stand on the particular concerns that are sometimes taken as a form of misunderstood kindness and goodness, but, as in some places in the public institutions, I believe that social control is flourishing. Project gender-separated swimming training sees the Left as a clear example of this misunderstood consideration. The promoters of the project believe that it is a healthy form of exercise. I think this is a good way to ensure that the slightly darkened social outlook with which some of these young girls are brought up continues in a public context. Nor do I believe that it is a public institution's job to buy black curtains, burkinis and other special items to ensure that a public swimming pool meets religious concerns in Islam or for that matter in other religions. It has nothing to do with integration; it has nothing to do with our open and free society, on the contrary. On the contrary, we are just helping to keep these girls in a conservative and a little squandered, I think, harmful women's role. I do not want us as a society to institutionalise that. I believe that acceptance in this area can be the worst form of consideration if you can follow my argument. Having said that, I and my party do not believe that the solution is that we institutionalise legislation against minority considerations in public institutions on the part of Christiansborg. After all, we are a country that has a local democracy, and I think it is up to the elected local politicians to decide how to set up sports facilities and how to deal with different associations and people's access to these facilities, just as it is also the responsibility of the board of directors of primary schools, kindergarten and other institutions to decide how to fix lunch, make playtime rules, hire managers, etc. etc. We have to trust that civil society and local democracy, which we have given the responsibility to run these social institutions, are also able to fulfil that responsibility and take decisions. If we want to decide from in here, we are depriving the people of the mandate they have been elected on and the task they have been elected to perform. That is why I have to say that, despite sympathetic intentions and many good arguments, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201151301	Then there are brief comments. First, Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201151305	First of all, thank you very much to the rapporteur for not misunderstanding the proposal. The proposal has been understood and did not go into everything else about Girl Scouts and other things. Because that's not what this is all about. Thank you. The Left rapporteur, Marcus Knuth, has been out to say that this is to introduce Sharia by the back door. Does the Left think that's the way it is? The rapporteur of the Left, not the rapporteur on the floor, but the other, Mr President. Marcus Knuth, said earlier: It is to give in to the pressure that comes from some Muslim parallel societies that try to sneak sharia in through the back door, i.e.. a division between boys and girls, a ban on pork, etc. This is a development in a clear negative direction, says Mr. Marcus Knuth. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201151353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201151354	As a starting point, I do not think that Sharia should be allowed in, either through the front door, the back door or the garden door. And yes, as a starting point, I share my colleague Mr. Marcus Knuth's observation about this. But I also have to make it clear that the people who have been elected, both municipal politically and institutionally, to represent the various institutions and municipal interests, have to take their place. They are because we can easily adopt a law here in the Folketing that forbids it, but if there is not that will in civil society, the interest it wants to take care to combat these parallel societies, the social control, then the legislation is in fact just wasted ink on paper with nothing but an intention of anything else. In fact, I believe that the DF's rapporteur can agree with me on this, perhaps not about legislation, but at least about the intention and the scope of how to translate attitudes into action.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201151454	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201151455	We want legislation in this area, precisely because we have 98 municipalities that can manage this very differently. This is not the first time we have made a law on the framework from here, after which the municipalities will implement it. We have done so in all sorts of other areas of the Services Act and the Health Service. So we can do that. I would therefore like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur and the rapporteur's minister have spoken about inviting the Danish People's Party or other rapporteurs in this area to discuss how we will have a fight with the social control that is taking place in public institutions and outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201151534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201151535	After all, no one has trusted me with keys, either to the ministry or to the minister car. Having said that, I am convinced that the Minister, my good colleague Mrs Inger Løbberg, and I myself, are very interested in discussing this issue intensively, both with the rapporteurs from the Danish People's Party who may be interested, and indeed also rapporteurs from the rest of the parties represented in the Danish Parliament. I think it is important to emphasise that this is a problem I am afraid we will have more difficulty dealing with in the future, and we need to talk more about how we deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201151606	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201151608	Thank you. I do not quite understand the first half of it: I do not understand how one can so dogmaticly divide it up and say that this promotes Sharia and all sorts of other thinking. It can also bring people out of Sharia, for example. as a young girl is allowed to participate in swimming with others, feel the desire to swim and may feel like some other forms of sport, and you may even want to be a regular Danish scout or some other things. It may be that it is the step on the road instead of a lock. We cannot say in advance in dogmatic terms whether it is one or the other. Man's evolution is not that square. Even if you have attended the Sorø Academy or for that matter at the boys' school that the movie Evil is about, you can be a good person anyway. I think that the way the rapporteur describes things with regard to this swimming is so square and dogmatic.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201151701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201151703	I think we should be careful not to be dogmatic. To the rapporteur's satisfaction, I can tell you that I myself have stepped into a public kindergarten and in a public school, I have a father who is a potter and a mother who is a secretary, and yet I have ended up as a Leftman. Yeah, well, the thing is, when these young girls walk past the swimming pool six out of seven days, there's lights, there's boys, and there's girls, they're showering in swimsuit, and there's no black curtains for the windows. But when they can be allowed to join, they have to bathe in burkinis, the light should be subdued, and religious aprons and curtains should be put up so that foreign men cannot stare down these young and little girls. How those artifacts can promote a sense of inclusion in society is incomprehensible to me. But it may be that I can become wiser; I will not deny that. But it must then be up to Enhedslisten's excellent rapporteur to argue about how it is related.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201151805	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201151807	I don't think that's hard. If you are more than 18 years old, you also know that things have changed in Denmark and among Danes. When I was a boy, boys and girls didn't shower together. When I was young and grown up, we rebelled and said that we can do that. Now there is again a trend among younger people that you can't. Such are standards, they tend to move through time, and some call it a rebellion against parents, etc., and others call it a backward step or a step forward. I think it makes sense at all times to bathe, that it makes sense to swim, that it makes sense to participate in sport, and that is how you help to develop yourself, and that is why I do not understand why the rapporteur can come up with such things.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201151850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201151851	One of the most respected sociologists and cultural researchers in this area, Dr. Schein, writes that every human being has a number of basic assumptions, and on top of that there are some values that are influenced by artifacts. Sir. Christian Juhl is well on his way down that road. The first thing we do to change these values towards a normative and one, I think, backward view, is to change the artifacts that signal that these young girls are no longer a normal part of society. Because it will change their perception of value and eventually lock them in some fundamental perceptions of their role as inferior women in a world where men's priority always takes precedence. I do not want to be a part of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201151926	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201151928	Thank you very much. The rapporteur comes in a little bit with meatballs and hamburger smoke and swimming and all of this, which we know as the salami method, and at the same time the rapporteur says that it is not a public task to ensure religious speciality, and we are very much in agreement on that. But that's what's happening. That is what happens when you have halal food out in the day institutions and when you have gender-separated swimming lessons etc. etc. So does the rapporteur not have some sort of stop button inside his head that says that this is actually happening now that I do not want to happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201152006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201152007	Yes, I share the concern, and I also believe that I belong to those members of my party's parliamentary group who are willing to be more offensive than others may be in this area. However, I believe that we need to try to activate civil society and the people elected to municipal councils and other bodies, in the first place. Because, as I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech at the end, I believe that the best opposition to the creation and acceptance of parallel societies and social control is where it meets and where it thrives. Then I agree with Mrs Pernille Bendixen that we have a challenge in that there are too many well-meaning special considerations that help to institutionalise a practice that is basically far away from both the open culture and the tolerance understanding that we actually have here. I will not deny that if this problem comes out of control, we may have to take further steps from in here. I just hope that this will not be necessary because I basically believe that local democracy and civil society are the best at both monitoring and combating the social control that we do not want to accept.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201152108	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201152110	That is probably where we may in fact disagree. Because in the Danish People's Party, we already think this is out of control, far, far out of control. And then perhaps we just miss hearing from the Left: when is something going on? When are we going to take action? For it has been 30 years since you have not been willing to do much. In fact, there has been no willingness to debate for many years either, and we must then commend you for the desire to do so now. But when are we going to take action?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201152139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201152140	Now my 30-second response time here is hardly sufficient to challenge the argument that we have not done anything in 30 years. I fully recognise that we have a number of deep and problematic challenges that we, together with the Danish Parliament's parties and not least the Danish People's Party, work to solve. I cannot speak on behalf of all the municipalities. I am pleased to note that in Aarhus a practice that was harmful in my view has been stopped. I also know that, if anyone from my future family ends up in an institution where these things exist, I will engage to stop it. But putting a precise label can be difficult, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201152218	Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201152220	Thank you. Now the Left is Denmark's liberal party. In my understanding of liberalism, liberalism is precisely about the fact that the individual has some rights, some natural rights, the right to work, the right to property, the right to his own body, and the task of the state is to underpin the rights of the individual. Let us assume that this is not a completely wrong interpretation of liberalism and that, at the same time, we believe that the state should not take special account of: how in the world will we then maintain a liberal understanding or political governance of society? People are different. As far as I know, we have always been different over generations in our society. So if, at the same time, we want to be liberal, if the government wants to be liberal, but does not take particular account of the people who may not be the majority, how on earth does one maintain a liberal understanding of society?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201152327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201152332	Thank you. I appreciate the fact that the Alternative rapporteur is trying to hold a lesson in liberal values. It may be that I have to pay back by showing up at the next group meeting in the Alternative and teaching standard dance. Then we can make it something. As a Liberal, I believe that the main task of the state is to ensure the legal certainty of citizens and to protect citizens from abuse and to ensure that citizens who cannot defend themselves are protected from abuse. I think so, among other things. include ensuring that little girls don't get beat up by their parents because they would like to play with boys. It is to ensure that little girls are not excluded by society by being dressed in religious clothes from a, excuse me, age that contains values that are not compatible with our society. You are welcome as an adult and modern human being and also an unmodern person, as long as you are of age, to decide exactly how you want to live. But when you as a parent are responsible for few small people, you also have a responsibility to ensure that they are not excluded from society to a degree that harms them or leads to abuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201152427	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201152429	Then we are at the very heart of this political debate. For who is it that has the right to define whether what is involved when girls go to gender-based swimming is social control or whether it is freedom for the individual? Is it the rapporteur who stands on the platform? Is it the authors of the Danish People's Party's motion? Or is it the mother or daughter who actually thinks that it is liberating for them to be allowed to go to the swimming pool with other girls and at the same time live in harmony with their own beliefs, but also with the feeling of being well in their own body? Who is it that defines what is social control and what is freedom?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201152509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201152511	After all, it is always fun to have a frontal collision with the postal society. I started my speech by saying that the data we have show that 25%. of young ethnic women and children experience strong social control and abuse. You can choose to neglect this and say that it is a natural part of growing up in Denmark. I do not think it is. I do not believe that it is the expression of a normal upbringing that the six days that the swimming pool has open is the normal one, there are no curtains that are bright, and there are boys and girls who bathe together, but when you as an ethnic little girl get to come in, it takes place in religious bathing suit with the lights turned off and with the curtains pulled over. I believe that, yes, is strong social control.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201152549	Thank you, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt. It's too bad there weren't any more questions. Christian Juhl for Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201152601	Thank you. I've heard people in this very heated debate call girl swiming an expression of a generally twisted view of women. Even if we have to take the problem of social control seriously, we must also remember that it is to turn the debate up to more than it can bear if we do such things. It is certain that terms of force are not part of a solution for the girls it is all about. There are no girls who become a greater part of the community of sour abuse, politicians' condemnation, outrage or mythical definitions of Danish values and equality. I fully agree that there is a problem. There are girls and boys in our society whose freedom is excessively restricted and who are subjected to negative social control. It is a problem that there are children who are not allowed to participate in sport or not to go to swimming. This is a problem for integration and health and their participation in the community. So how do we solve it? It is an incredibly important social task to ensure that children come out of the home, engage in leisure activities, exercise and come into contact with other people in society. Social isolation is such a major problem for children in poverty and for children of parents who do not know the Danish language and society very well. Here girl swimming comes into the picture and becomes a solution for some. The hope is, of course, that in time the child can participate in even more and other activities. Can we then conclude that everything is good, that there are also some who would otherwise have gone to mixed swimming? No, we can't. It is precisely for this reason that it is best for such decisions to be taken locally and not with a national ban on the part of Parliament. Social policy • call it integration • is not just about standing firm or sending signals. It is about reaching people who are not part of the community or have problems so that they can become part of the community. If you have to, you have to meet them where they are. This applies regardless of whether we are talking about homeless, vulnerable families or others who do not fit in with the usual boxes. It is not a question whether the question is what In the Enhedslisten we have the view that it is primarily a local decision in the municipality, in the local council, in the swimming club or the football club, how you want to adapt, so that it is most beneficial for integration, and so that you get as many children and young people as possible into participation in the association life. A ban will get us nowhere. In fact, we also believe that special consideration should be given in some cases, not because the Danish society, our community and the values of freedom must be cast on the dung dung, but because those freedoms must apply to everyone in Denmark regardless of colour, religion or beliefs and we need everyone to become part of the community and that no one is isolated at home from others. If this proposal is implemented, it will, for example: should also be prohibited from taking any particular consideration to ensure Ethnic youth, a hotline for young people who are subjected to negative social control, forced marriages, violence, etc. We're not gonna close that down. Special measures are needed for particular problems, and therefore special considerations are sometimes needed to achieve a common objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201152958	There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201153001	Thank you very much. The rapporteur says 'power expression' and'sure scold', and then you can hear that this speech was written before the debate started, because I have not heard any angry rebukes or rebukes from any of the rapporteurs at all. I would like the rapporteur to explain how to be integrated as a Muslim girl by swimming together with some other Muslim girls who are in exactly the same situation as yourself, behind a curtain where no one can see you. How do you integrate with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201153031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201153032	I should now like to remind you that this debate has not started half an hour or an hour ago. It has been happening in society for years. I mean, I've been in a lot of debates on this very subject. It's not that hard to explain. This is because the alternative to having girl swimming is not that you come out for joint swimming. No, the alternative will often be that you stay home in your room, because then you won't be allowed to do anything. That is what the proposers are totally forgetting. Here is a chance that at least some of those who start swimming in a girl's swimming club or in a leisure activity also meet other young people, may also want to participate in other types of swimming. That's why it's so good to remember our own experiences from our own lives with how we've moved around normally. We have not done so by the fact that some politicians in the Folketing have banned and decided what we were not allowed to do and what we had to do. We have done this by getting rid of it precisely through our colleagues and comrades.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201153139	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201153140	After all, there is nothing about Islam that has changed since 632, so it is really nonsense. Muslim girls therefore exercise massive social control over each other. This means that it may just as well be the girls you meet at the swimming pool, which are also the Muslim girls who exercise social control over you. So how can you be sure that by being behind a curtain along with some other Muslim girls you are being integrated? In fact, I do not think the rapporteur was very well explained.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201153207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201153208	No, and I do not think I can convince the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party of that either, because it is like when the horse gets such a clapping in his eyes. Then you think banning is the way forward, because you just can't see the other things. I mean, when I was with young boys on scouting trips, we talked about how crazy our parents were and what we could do to make it better when we once grew up. Back then, we didn't dare rebel because we weren't that old. But when we got old enough, we did. That's when we did alternative things. Then we began to meddle politically too. We began to rebel against our parents. You don't do that until you're with somebody. You can't do that alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201153245	Then it's Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201153248	I just need to know if Enhedslisten recognises that we have a gender equality problem here. I do not know whether the rapporteur knows the debater Geeti Amiri, but at least she has written and answered some questions, and she says: it confirms that there are many New Danish girls who still have problems in participating in sports because they are restricted simply because they are women. There are still circumstances to be met before girls can participate in swimming, and this should not be the case in an equal society. I would like to know whether the rapporteur recognises that we have an equal opportunities problem here, particularly in relation to negative social controls. In addition, I would like to hear from the rapporteur what initiatives the rapporteur is going to take to limit this, so that we stand together in order not to put equal opportunities out of play in relation to minority women, and in this way we should not be helping to ensure that special considerations are taken into account in swimming pools.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201153355	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201153357	I am just reading up to what I said a minute ago: it is not a question of whether there is a problem, because there are problems in some minority environments with children and young people being unnecessarily restricted in their freedom to choose for themselves and shape their own lives. Yeah, there's a problem, but you can't solve that one way, you can solve that in a lot of ways. And how do I think that can be solved? I recognise that there is a problem. At least it cannot be solved by DF's method. It doesn't change anything, but if you get more kids to go to swimming, go to football, go to riding, maybe go to dancing too. After all, in all sorts of activities where young people meet, there is a debate about how to dream about your life, perhaps also in contrast to the strict standards of your parents. And there lies the power to rebel, which lies the power to form your own life on your own terms, wondering whether what you are told at home is now right or wrong. I am certainly not opposed to youth uprisings, on the contrary, and that is why I believe that it is precisely when young people meet that the idea that it may be different arises.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201153503	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201153505	I just have to understand, as the rapporteur said in his speech, that it is better for these girls to swim for completely roll-down curtains and without male lifeguards or men even present in the swimming pool than if they do not. I would just like to ask: is it understood correctly that this is what the rapporteur said, namely rather swim for roll-down curtains and without there being any men at all? And does the rapporteur not recognise that it is a challenge when we have always had sport together?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201153540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201153542	I would remind you that we have not always had sport together. My mom went to a women's gymnasium class. I've been playing a boy football team, and that's how you can go on. Fortunately, that has changed. There has been a revolt against this, among other things. By virtue of my generation. I know that it is on the way back and that one cannot really understand that this has not always been the case in Denmark. A first step could be to swim in a club where there are only women. A next step could be to swim in a swimming pool where there were both men and women, or to switch to another sport.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201153614	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201153623	I agree with the considerations put forward by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, but I also have some more fundamental considerations. In fact, motion for a resolution B 13 raises an interesting question: how should we, as legislators, respond to the wishes or demands of collective rights? Collective rights are rights reserved for one group or another. Collective rights are known from political history, where, during the late absolute monarchy, the stubborn had a certain number of seats reserved in the consultative assemblies. In principle, collective rights ceased to exist when democracy was introduced in 1849. In practice they gradually disappeared, while the collective right to fill all the seats in the Folketing and the Landsting disappeared in 1915 and the nobility privileges were abolished in 1919. When the Landsting was laid down in 1953, it can be said that the last remnant of the official privilege community disappeared. For it is a pillar of civil or liberal democracy that rights are something that the state gives to individuals, and, of course, the most fundamental of them is in the form of civil rights. When collective rights were unsuited and unsuited, it is because collective rights can only be achieved by depriving individuals of their rights. Collective rights to the nobility are obtained at the expense of the bourgeoisie; collective rights to women are obtained at the expense of men. And that is the basic principle of collective rights always: some have to pay for others to be granted privileges, which are, after all, another name for collective rights. It is not the case that collective rights should be completely rejected. Women have the collective right in Denmark that they can change to the swimming pool without being looked at by men. And that in principle discriminates against men who like to look at women. On the other hand, men enjoy a reciprocal right, and most people, including myself, find that completely unproblematic. What has put collective rights back on the agenda, which means that as a parliament we should be more interested in it, is not that the nobility has returned as a political factor • although I have noted that the old peasant party has made peace with the landowners and included it in its middle but identity policy. And it is not only Islamic identity policy that triggers demands for collective rights, it is also women's identity policy, and it is the identity policy of a large number of minorities. In the United States, this has led to the establishment in many universities of safe zones where you can ride your identity policy hoops. Identity policy demands dissolve if they are allowed to develop, the basic principle of liberal democracy of individual rights. If you give women a collective right to half of all professorships, then it is discrimination against the better qualified man who must give way to a less qualified woman. The resolution is therefore a corner of an incredibly important debate: how should we, as legislators, respond in general to identity policy demands for privileges? That is why I hope that the Danish People's Party is prepared to discuss the issue of collective rights on another occasion. It is indeed an issue which is highly worthy of discussion by the Danish Parliament. However, in this form, the Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201154038	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201154042	Thank you. The rapporteur is talking about collective rights. Then I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is aware of collective social control. in our vulnerable residential areas, compared to minority women and girls. I would also like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks that we in Denmark should accept roll-down curtains and the closure of swimming pools because of special considerations for minorities, and whether the rapporteur does not think it would be better for these girls to swim in an open swimming pool so that they may not be subject to what is referred to, namely social control, because they are not allowed to bathe with men and boys.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201154132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201154133	Social control is a very serious problem, but the way one solves it we could also try to learn something from in the Danish Parliament. by studying Norway, where they have taken a very strong stand against the violent patriarchate. For the core of social control is the violent patriarchate. And to the extent that you can control the violent patriarchate, you can do something about social control. If an association rented the whole swimming pool and decorated it as it would now, and then brought it back into its original condition, then there was nothing you could do about it. So it becomes kind of symbolically political in the way it is formulated. But get into the discussion on collective rights, because that is politically very important.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201154216	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201154217	But what is the rapporteur's position on collective control, precisely what is happening in relation to society in general? Today we have safe houses to which people from minority communities will have to flee, precisely because of the negative social control and coercion and threats and other things. What will the Liberal Alliance do in relation to that part? Now I know that the Liberal Alliance is part of the government, but hopefully the Liberal Alliance still has their own opinions and opinions on things.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201154248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201154249	Geeti Amiri, whom the rapporteur mentioned just now, is a personal friend of mine, so I know all about social control and that is a very, very serious problem. But as I said before, the way is to deal with the violent patriarchate, and it takes place under a different regime than in swimming pools and similar places. In Norway, the penalty for violence in family relationships is up to 15 years old. It has actually worked, and there is much to learn from studying the examples from Norway.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201154318	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201154320	Thank you very much, sir. Henrik Dahl, whom I can admit is one of my favorite speakers here in the Danish Parliament. Yours, no, you can't say that. I'm sorry, sir. Henrik Dahl's speeches are fantastic. You talk a lot about the rights of the individual, and in order for there to be no misunderstandings, I simply have to ask: Does Mr. Henrik Dahl that Islam is a right to get introduced into Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201154349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201154350	My view is in fact the opposite. Because what I said in my rapporteur's speech was that Islamic identity policy leads to demands for collective rights. However, women's identity policy also leads to demands for collective rights, and the identity policy of other minorities leads to collective rights. For identity policy leads to demands for collective rights, and I believe that, as politicians in a liberal democracy, we should be completely opposed to this. Otherwise, we are going back into the stagnating society or into the apartheid community, and that is the last thing I want.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201154427	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201154428	I just wanted to make sure. Sir. Henrik Dahl then comes up with this thing about naked women bathing alone and naked men bathing alone. And I think that most of us may be right, with the exception of the rapporteur, are quite happy that we do not have to look at each other while we bathe naked. But does the rapporteur not also see that it is perhaps a slightly different problem that lies behind it if it is a problem? There's not the same background here that you're separated. It is not a religion that leads to separation here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201154457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201154458	When I mention this, it is only in order to define certain practices which could be confused with collective rights. And I just want to make it clear that here we are not talking about collective rights. It is tradition bound and bound in the sense of ingenuity, etc. etc. and I have no problem with it. But collective rights as a challenge for liberal democracy I would like to make a distinction in my rapporteur's speech. And that's what I'm trying to do here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201154525	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. I'm sorry, sir, very late. Christian Juhl made a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201154536	Thank you so much. Well, maybe I'm the one who doesn't understand about collective rights. But these young Muslim women, who meet for swimming, may have the courage to talk to each other that they want to free themselves from the social control they are subjected to and will fight for a right to bathe, just as their Danish friends do, or fight for a right to practice other sports that their parents do not think it is good to practice. I believe that the process of collective action and fighting for rights cannot in any way be negative. I do not quite understand the rapporteur when he talks about the need to distance ourselves from collective rights. The fight for the rights of a group of people who are subjected to control, repression or other is surely something positive in any society.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201154629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201154630	Maybe I shouldn't have just used the term without explaining it. That is why I am pleased to have an opportunity to do so. What caused the rebellion against the aristocracy in the 1800s was that these aristocracys had collective rights to a certain number of seats in a staunch assembly and also a certain number of seats in the Landsting for that matter. What was wanted was that rights were enshrined in the individual, that is, that the state gives each individual individual individual individual individual rights. That is why the idea of collective rights is contrary to what actually creates modern bourgeois democracy, and that is why we should not go back to them. At least that is the view I have here. The fact that you then fight for your personal emancipation is something I fully agree with, and I think it is good when people do it, and I can only encourage it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201154723	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201154724	I have spent most of my life on the right to organize, the right to collectively fight for rights against other privileged groups. And I will carry that right with me into any social formation that I would ever have to meet on my way, or that I would ever have to be a part of building. Because I think that is a fundamental right, for example. the right to form a union collectively. It is so universal that I would say that there will be a great deal of disagreement if the rapporteur thinks it is wrong. For the way for those people who are today subjected to extreme social control is that they organise themselves and help each other out of the situation they are in.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201154801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201154801-2	Honestly and without being polemical, I think we're talking past each other. Of course, one is right to organise oneself, and that is because one's rights may be violated. The way I understand it, for example. The fight against work is, after all, a struggle to have the same rights as others. What is the problem is if you fight for your own rights, for example. struggles to get two votes instead of others who have to have one vote. Then you are out fighting for collective rights in the sense that I think is a problem. I don't think we disagree that much.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201154831	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Henrik Dahl and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201154837	Thank you for that, President. I do not know if anyone else is quite enthusiastic about me right now, because what is happening right now is a rare time, not so often, I think, in this Chamber, that the political debate is actually being raised a level, so we start talking about ideologies and politics, as we all really like it. And Mr. I would like to thank Henrik Dahl for at least raising the debate to a level where we actually think it is becoming interesting. If I may say so, I think this motion for a resolution is really foolishly sorry, it is not a nice word, but I am really sorry about this resolution because I think it is symbolic policy. I think that if we really want to talk about social control, let us talk about social control where it is a problem, not in swimming pools, but where the men are just violent towards their wives at home or do not allow them to walk out the door or do not allow their daughters to go to the swimming pool at all there we have a problem. I also find it discriminatory that this proposal in the comments mentions these gender-separated swimming pools and mentions Muslims as a problem. If the proposal is about taking special account of minorities, then we must stick to it and not start to mention a certain religious group in the comments. As others have said, we can look up an evening school catalogue and find plenty of examples of courses that are addressed only to men or women. I know that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party has mentioned that it is not relevant in this context, but it is, because it is special considerations. Our society is carried for special reasons. Then I think this motion for a resolution is ill-thought out. I got e-mails from women who go to swim teams for women only. So it is also women who are bright in the skin and women who are Christian and women who do not believe in anything. But it is among other things. women who may have lost a breast to cancer, who have experienced assault and have therefore had mutilated parts of their body. It's women who are so medicated that their bodies may have swelled to fourfold size. There is also a woman who wrote to me that she went to Gellerupbadet because she lives right around the corner, and the time when there was swimming just matched that it was there, Saturday from 15 to 18, that was gender-separated swimming, so she was really fond of that team. So I think this proposal is ill-thought out, because it completely misses the dial. I think that is also contradictory, because the proposal falls for its own criticism. It is stated, of course, as an explanation for the tabling of this motion for a resolution that it must be a dispute with social control, but it is precisely an example of control when we, on the part of the supreme authority, will go out and control our association life and say to them: do not set up teams that you find best in relation to what your experience is in your everyday life. It should be noted that the association has, after all, supported the possibility of gender-separated, not only swimming teams, but all kinds of leisure and association activities. Association life is out to tell us time and time again how good it is, because girls • if it's girls' teams or women's teams • come out and come to sports. And, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur said, we must see it as a huge potential for an opportunity to participate in the democratic debate, because one gets away from the four walls of one's home and has an opportunity to discuss one's own situation, its parents' perspective on upbringing, on religion, on faith, on behavior. It's a huge potential that we can get these girls out of our homes. So I urge that we do much more of it, that we take special care, because our society has always been carried by humanism, by freedoms, by diversity and precisely for special reasons. I think this is an unfortunate motion for a resolution. I would like to take the debate on social control, but I would much rather take it on a basis where it makes sense. I think it is symbolic policy and I do not think it is good political work. That is also why I was pleased that the debate was just lifted just now. I think that the level of debate we had under the previous rapporteur is exactly what I think we should have when we discuss these things. But it is clear that, as presented here and with such a sharp focus on and a clear underlying desire to hit exactly Muslim girls and women who go swimming for roll-down curtains, the alternative cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201155326	There is a brief comment on Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201155330	If you want to misunderstand resolutions, you can do so, and that is what the alternative rapporteur is doing from the platform. As I have said before, it is with the further discussions in the last two lines of the comments on the motion for a resolution. The second point I want to make is that a resolution is not chiseled in granite. You have a text you write, and then you take the debate in the Chamber. However, it is disappointing that the rapporteur does not recognise that we have an equal opportunities problem here and that we have an equal opportunities challenge but talk it down. If the rapporteur thinks that the debate was raised earlier, then I must say that it has at least fallen with a bang since the alternative rapporteur came to the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201155410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201155412	Thank you for that! The rapporteur must, of course, be in favour of this. No, I do not think it is a problem of equality that there are gender-separated swimming teams. Period! On the contrary, it is an opportunity to get some girls into society who would otherwise stay at home within the four walls of their homes. Let us now start from the reality as it is. The alternative would be that if we did this forbidden, that we would have no chance at all of influencing what is going on within the four walls. No, I do not think it is a problem of equality that there are gender-separated swimming teams.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201155447	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201155449	Then I would just have to refer to the debate I am having, precisely in relation to Geeti Amiri, and I quote her answer: yes, and I also know that if these initiatives are not initiated, it may be extremely difficult if not impossible to get some of these girls with whom they have to put up with the restrictive norms of the hinterland for women. However, these are special considerations in which values, equality and emancipation are renounced. I hate that I sound like a DF when I say this, and I wish some left-wing politicians were shouting and saying, "What the hell is going on? Why should five-12-year-old girls not be able to participate in swimming without veiled windows? After all, Danish girls with minority backgrounds must be restricted and respected..... First Vice-President Stop. Time has passed).
ParlaMint-DK_20161201155537	Even if you quote, time has passed. Now it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201155539	Thank you. Listen, Geeti Amiri is a debater in Denmark. She certainly has some points, then she has some opinions that I personally disagree with politically, and one of them is that it is a problem of equality that girls can be allowed to go swimming on pure girls' teams. I disagree with Geeti Amiri on that. We must be careful that we do not draw up a few debaters as oracles for the debate, because there are many positions that we can have and many we can agree on politically, and some we disagree on, and I just disagree that this is a problem of equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201155612	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201155615	Thank you. The rapporteur says that with our proposal we are precisely trying to hit Muslim women and girls. It may be because it is precisely those who are subject to social control. On the contrary, I would say, the problem is exactly the rapporteur, like Mrs Magdalene Maier, who refuses to deal with facts that refuse to recognise the problem here and who refuses to deal with it at all and then tries to explain it away with cancer-stricken women who go to the swimming pool. Yes, it is not on the basis of a religion that they go to the swimming pool for themselves. It is of modesty, and there I just think there is a significant difference. Can the rapporteur accept that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201155649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201155651	There's a difference. There are different reasons why women go on these pure women's swimming classes. I'd love to admit that. I fully agree with that. But that diversity also has to be there, that you have different reasons for going on a purely women's swimming team. Some do it because you may not show up because you are soft because you have undergone a cancer operation, others do it for religious reasons, and that's okay. I feel a bit like this: what's the problem with that? I am happy to acknowledge, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, that we have problems with social control in Denmark. I don't think anyone in this Chamber will recognize that. However, let us tackle the problem where there is a problem, and there is no such problem in these swimneck teams.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201155737	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201155739	Is the rapporteur even aware of what the end point is for all these small special concerns? I mean, the end point for all of this is the Sharia law, and I do not know if the rapporteur knows anything about the Sharia law and what it means in the end. I'm not saying that's what we have. I'm saying that's what we can get if we don't put an end to all these little innocent things. Is the rapporteur even aware of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201155802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201155804	After all, I have a vertical disagreement, and I have to say that this is one of the points on which we are fortunately, and that is also why we are sitting, as we are doing, in the Parliamentary Chamber, that is very politically different, because that is discriminatory. After all, the draft law concerns (Karina Adsbøl It is not a bill)...I am sorry, the motion for a resolution concerns the desire to ban special treatment for minorities, but it is of course minorities widely, and in the comments it mentions the Muslim girls. I think that is a major problem because it seems as if you want to hit a particular minority group in our society, and that is just not okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201155854	Thank you. Although this is an exciting debate, we must not make such an indictment from the floor. We thank the rapporteur, and then we go on to Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201155905	I belong to the age group that has had a childhood in which I myself had to break free from my parents' social control, and in a way that my own grandchildren cannot understand at all. So there have been a great many changes in Danish society for some decades. I can also say that the mothers of me and my classmates, girls and boys should also break free from their men's social control. That's why we got the Red Stocking Movement up through the 1960s and 1970s, which really set a different agenda and which helped us get some other conditions. But it is a particular gender problem I am mentioning here. Out in the Wandering Hall by the showcases in which we have the constitutions and other laws that are of great importance to our history, there are four concepts on the wall that I have made my favourite concepts. It says: Righteousness, lawfulness, liberality, generosity. I am convinced that this is the expression of a special Danish historical culture, in which we have what I call minority law, in which it is possible for a minority to create a circle of public education based on values which the majority do not share. One can do one's own free school on the basis of a pedagogy that the majority of the Folketing or society does not share. You can form a free church. You can make a women's association that takes a gym and goes to the sauna together and prefers to have it for itself and not have men with you. The idea is that the minority can have values other than the majority, and we respect and accept this within the framework provided by the legislation. I therefore have a great deal of confidence in local culture and the local active citizens of civil society and the community life and their handling of the challenges around you in the different parts of Denmark, which can be different from each other. But one has a fundamental common position and understanding of the freedom that we have in Danish society to be different and to be different. It is a basic value that I think we should be very, very careful about. That is why the Radical Left has great confidence in what is happening in local society, in associations and in those who take care of helping those girls who are now breaking free from the social control to which they are subjected. There I think we should have so much confidence that we can respond locally to the challenges that are best suited to each local place and where we will have the best opportunity to give girls too the chance to get so much confidence that they are also able to break free in the same way that I was at some point in my youth. Therefore, we cannot support the proposal, which specifically mentions gender-separated swimming training and covered windows as justification for making this proposal, because I trust that those who choose to do it in their way somewhere in the country are fully aware of what kind of culture and tradition we are building our minority rights on, so that they are prepared to give a hand to those who need that hand. I think we should be happy about that. So we don't support B 13.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201160247	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201160251	The rapporteur says that she trusts those who choose it, in other words those who decide it. Is it my understanding, then, that the rapporteur thinks it is quite fine that we have dark swimming pools in Denmark, precisely for special reasons? Does the rapporteur also think that, if some people choose to do so, it is acceptable for us to get praying rooms into high schools or other educational institutions, in other words, because some people think it is a good idea? Where do the radicals go in relation to this development and all these special considerations that come in to the misunderstood particular concerns that affect girls as young as five years of age, who are not allowed to swim with boys, i.e. are not allowed to swim if there are boys present?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201160341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201160343	Well, I don't think Parliament should interfere in this kind of thing at all. In other words, we are not interfering in what public education associations are being created around the country. They don't have to pass our table and be approved by us. I respect the teachers, the association leaders, the volunteers who work with children and young people and believe that they have common sense and act responsibly in relation to the challenge they face and are experiencing. Because I believe that they are built on the tradition and culture that I started by mentioning, under the four concepts painted by the monsters in the Walking Hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201160420	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201160422	Parliament should not interfere, says the rapporteur. Then the Folketing believes that no one should interfere if one is subjected as a girl to social control, to collective social control; then the educators should not react, make a notification or anything else, because the Folketing should not interfere with that, even if we have made legislation in relation to the children's area, about notifications. We have talked to girls who said that there were no educators or teachers who belonged to them or asked how they felt, why they were not on camping or other things. But we should not interfere in that; the Folketing must stay out of it. Or how should I understand the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201160458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201160500	No, I believe that teachers, teachers and adults who are around the girls to whom the questioner refers should be involved. We already have legislation on that. Alerts must be made if anyone is harmed in any way; if there is anything that harms the child or young person. We have legislated on this together. That's not what I'm questioning here. I challenge the fact that we are interfering in how the associations in a free country such as Denmark should comply with the Danish Parliament's definition of different issues. We are against this in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201160536	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Trine Torp as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201160545	In Denmark we are fortunate that not all decisions should be taken at Christiansborg. In concrete terms, this means that citizens can be sure that local authorities have autonomy to regulate local affairs. I think that principle is fundamental to our democratic society, and I believe that at times like these, when the gap between politicians and citizens seems to be widening, we should do everything we can to enforce in the best way. The motion for a resolution we are debating today seems to me to be aimed at doing exactly the opposite. The motion for a resolution seeks to take some of the local power of action away from the municipalities and instead leave it up to the Folketing to regulate whether, for example, it should be possible to make gender-separated swimming in the municipalities. I just don't think that's the job of the state. Local town councils have dealt with gender-separated swimming on several occasions, e.g.: in Aarhus Municipality, where a majority has wanted to abolish gender-separated swimming in specific swimming halls, and in the City of Copenhagen, where you have not wanted to prevent it. And it makes sense that it is up to the individual municipal city leaders to decide on matters such as these. Each of us can have all sorts of opinions about gender-separated swimming. My own party's line is that no particular consideration should be given at all costs, but at the same time we are of the opinion that it should be trusted that the municipalities, together with civil society, professional organisations and local associations, are able to carry out their tasks and assess what consideration should be taken out there. One should have confidence that they know about the local area and know what actions will work for the very citizens with whom they surround themselves. And one should have confidence that they always do what they think is best in the given situation. I and the SF still want to show that confidence. In addition, I am also concerned that, in its present form, the motion for a resolution can always be taken as a starting point, because it is very broadly worded as a ban on the speciality of minorities in public institutions. I simply do not think it is democratically justified to support such a unclear and potentially extensive ban on respect for minorities in public institutions, regardless of whether the intention behind the motion for a resolution is only aimed at just gender-separated swimming, or whether it is intended to ban minority particular considerations across a wider spectrum. We must continue to respect local judgment, local associations and local self-government. For me and for the SF, trust is the main reason why we cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201160853	There are a number of brief comments and the first is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201160857	Thank you. Does the rapporteur not think it is such an excuse from in here that, when you do not want to legislate on anything, you pull local self-government out of your hat? Although you can see that there are challenges in this area, and even if you can see that there are problems with equality, if it gets a little too difficult, you just pull it out of your hat, because then you don't have to take a position, and then they can do it out in the city councils, even though they find it difficult to decide what is up and down. It is better to create the framework in here and then get it out there, so that we ensure that young girls and young women do not suffer what we see today with social control. The rapporteur himself was also at the closed hearing yesterday, when we just heard a girl telling her life story, about what it was like to grow up with that where nobody sees anything, no educators see anything, no teachers react. But we should just not do it because there is municipal autonomy, so if we see something, should we not respond to it from in here? is that the rapporteur's view of the matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201161001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201161003	Well, we do have a social law which states that if parents or other adults do not take proper care of their children, it must be informed of that fact that action must be taken in relation to it. So we do, but I just don't think this proposal solves the problem you want to solve. I do not believe that prohibition is the way. I believe that it is absolutely essential that the people who are around young women should be aware of whether what is going on is oppressive or not oppressive.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201161047	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201161049	The rapporteur knows that a motion for a resolution is a draft, and then you take the discussion together, and either you do it in committee, or you do it in negotiations if the Minister invites you to do so. In relation to this, it says that the proposers are prepared to enter into a more detailed discussion of the drafting of the bill, including the limitations of the ban, also in relation to how it should be combined at all. And then I just need to know whether the SF will be involved in such a discussion in committee, in terms of how we can ensure that we have a fight with social control precisely in relation to minority concerns. That is what the resolution is about, that is, that we know that it is not healthy or good that we are doing these special things in Denmark, in a Danish democracy, and we have Danish standards and rules, but as long as we keep doing these special things, we are shooting ourselves in the foot.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201161141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201161143	The questioner was at the same expert meeting yesterday that I was at, and I think that is the right way to go, that is to say to discuss it with some of those who are close to the girls, the women it is about and who are active in those communities. What kind of commands do they have to get rid of social control? If I do not support it because one can always make a statement that we can discuss it further afterwards it is because I think the whole premise for the proposal is wrong. And that's why the SF can't back it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201161214	The next question is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201161216	Thank you very much. The rapporteur talks a great deal about local self-government, and far along the way we agree that it is very good. We want to support it and we trust it. But in this case, we just have to note that for the last 30 years there has been very, very little progress in terms of integration, while at the same time we have this social control over the girls. It must also be said that the only way we have not tried to solve the problem is actually to legislate on it. Wouldn't you imagine there's actually a chance to help these girls a little bit more? One could, for example: help them and determine by ban that they are not allowed to wear niqab. I've heard some girls say if you wouldn't want to ban niqab at their high school, they wouldn't want them on, but they were forced to do it from home; and then the principal did it to help the girls. Could it not be imagined somewhere along the way that a ban could actually help these girls out of social control?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201161316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201161317	The other day I had a visit from some young people who came in here at Christiansborg, and some of them also came from environments where there is a risk of social control, one might say, and some of them have certainly also been exposed to it themselves. Some of them said that what was most discriminatory and restrictive for them was that everyone interpreted it, that they had a scarf, as an expression of social control. Others said: We are not seen at all. We are not being seen, no one is discovering that we are miserable, no one is acting on the fact that we are not getting the help we need. So there are a lot of different reasons why these girls don't get the help they need. I do not believe that a ban is the right way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201161407	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201161410	But what does SF think is the right way forward? Because I don't think we've heard so much about that, maybe a little, but you might go a little deeper into it if it's that we have to get something together at all. It might be nice to get an offer from you on what you'd like.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201161422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201161424	I think it would be very nice if some of the places where something actually happens were highlighted at times. There are neighbourhoods where there are district meetings, there are communities that are actually trying to address some of these problems. There are also bodies and ethnic consultants, there are other professionals who know something about this and who have good experience of how to help these girls, and who also have experience in working with the whole family, whole networks and not in isolation with the individual woman.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201161458	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. I do not see the Conservative rapporteur in the Chamber, which is why I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201161514	Thank you. The Danish People's Party wants to see a fight with special regard to minorities in public institutions, and when we talk about special concerns, this applies, among other things, to minorities in public institutions. What we have discussed today, in other words gender-separated swimming training and covered windows, which we have both read and heard about in the media. The Danish People's Party believes that special considerations for minorities, such as gender-separated swimming teams, contribute to strengthening the social control of some minority women and girls. The Danish People's Party wants a fight with social control because the reality behind the gender-separated swim teams is that these girls' families do not allow them to go to swimming if there are boys or male lifeguards present. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that this is a problem of equality. The Danish People's Party believes that if you as a society accept this and make this kind of gender-separated team to accommodate a minority because they are not allowed to participate in swimming without special consideration, you as a society also help to accept that social control is being exercised. Children as young as 5 years of age should only come to swimming when there are female lifeguards, and this is a distorted gender perception. We should not accept that in any way, and that is why we must reject it. We're not alone with that. We can hear that today. And the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and the rapporteur for the integration of the Left have said to the press that it cannot be ruled out that there is a need to stop such things by means of legislative measures. However, several other rapporteurs have also criticised this, among other things. the Social Democratic Lars Aslan Rasmussen, who has told Politiken that it is very sad that a swimming pool in Tingbjerg now offers gender-separated swimming training and blurred window parts. And to Berlingske he has said that Denmark should not reach out to the most reactionary Muslim forces by allowing gender-separated swimming training behind veiled windows. In addition, one researcher has said that gender-separated swimming backfires integration, and that it is an isolation in which one points out that one is very special and that one does not want to interfere with the rest of the population in this respect. Generally speaking, minority considerations are gradually more the rule than the exception, and in the Danish People's Party we want to stop that development by saying clearly and forbidding this and taking the measures needed to stop the misunderstood particular concerns. The extent to which there is a variety of minority concerns is not in Denmark's interest. It divides society. In particular, we see different places and not only in swimming, where you cover up an entire swimming pool, and where no men have access • not even a male lifeguard. We could also read in 2014 that East Jutland Police had established a prayer room where Muslim employees could pray during working hours. In April 2016, the newspapers wrote about gender-separated Koran education at a Danish university, where CBS' premises had been used involuntarily for this purpose, and it also aroused intense criticism and awareness that at one of the country's largest universities gender-separated Koran and Islam education was carried out. And that is why it was also gratifying that it was rejected. And recently there was a secret that was revealed in connection with the UCC, Campus Carlsberg, precisely in relation to the fact that they have created a prayer room. So we also see these misunderstood special concerns elsewhere, also in relation to the food in our day care institutions, in hospitals and in institutions where a meatball food is gradually banned. In early February 2015, a Copenhagen father wrote a chronicle in Berlingske about what he called religious infection in the day institutions. In the chandeliers he described how he was shocked by the extent to which Islam had become part of everyday life in Copenhagen's daycare institutions when he had to choose a daycare institution for his youngest son. The family visited four institutions and the smallest and the most worn could offer traditional food to Danes as well as Islamic food to Muslims. In the other three who stood for approx. 90% of the capacity, they could not offer traditional Danish food such as pork or meat that was not halal butchered. As the motion for a resolution says, and as I have explained several times today, the Danish People's Party is prepared to enter into a detailed discussion on the drafting of a legislative proposal or on the definition of the ban. As our resolution also says, we are incredibly concerned about the social control part, and we have had hearings in this regard, precisely in relation to how minority women and girls are subjected to social control, and we as a society have to say so. And that is why it is no use that we are a Denmark that must be so tolerant that we believe that we are helping young people if we are doing these special things or that we are helping women if we are doing these special things, because we are not doing that. You have to know that in Denmark we have rules and standards, and we should not go in and make special considerations, because then you will not be integrated. Collective social control takes place everywhere. Many of the girls I've talked to can't even go to a café without a family member knowing. And there's text messages going on across the street, texting and talking about each other. Many of them cannot choose for themselves what clothes they want to wear. That's why I get sad when I hear that this is just symbol politics. It's just symbol politics. It's just the Danish People's Party that once again comes up with some symbol politics. And I think it should be taken seriously, because we see a move in Danish society that is going in the wrong direction. It is not integration to take special consideration in Danish society in relation to minorities. If we are to integrate, we must integrate on the same terms as all of us. So I welcome the rapporteurs who have not misunderstood this resolution and know what it is about and who are also taking it seriously. And I welcome the Minister's recognition that she is also taking it seriously. I am a little sorry that the Minister will not be involved in legislation in this area and will provide a framework for how best to solve this problem and the challenge that is also here. We have taken various initiatives, as the Minister also says, into the rate pool. We have set up another safehouse in Jutland, so we have places in the country where there are some who can help minorities who are exposed to, you might say, negative social control. There are a lot of things we need to do. I know that a great many Presidents, including Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, have been out to say that society has failed minority women and minority girls, and several politicians have indicated that there is a failure here. So it's not about symbol politics, it's actually about us wanting to help reduce the risk of this happening, and we're certainly not doing that if we do more special things in Danish society. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201162324	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201162328	It's gross that you can talk, and then you don't listen to each other anyway. I was trying to tell you that was a problem. I was just trying to say that the Danish People's Party's way of solving it doesn't solve anything. There are no solutions in this. You tell yourself that if you legislate, things will change. No, they don't. It may seem just the opposite. The rapporteur can hunt the girls who need to talk to other girls home to their parents, and then they are more with their parents and their social control. That is what part of us are trying to problematize and say that the community life, the local contact with other people, gives a much greater probability that these people will get out of social control than if a Parliament chooses to make a law on what to do not. One person who contacted me said: Well, what about the women who are soft, who go to women's swimming and who certainly will not dress about where men look at it, nor will they swim with men? We also heard from the alternative examples of this. Are they gonna get hit by this, too? I believe that we should give proper thought to our proposals, rather than just being offended that they are called symbolic politics. It is because we do not believe that it is right and it does not work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201162445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201162449	I am well aware that the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten do not agree in areas and look at things differently. Just in relation to this, we don't think that closed swimming pools are a real way to go. Yes, of course you can be gentle, but you do even make special considerations for minority girls and women, and also down to children at the age of 5, because they are not allowed to be with men at all. We also see in educational situations in some places that women come down to the rear row to sit or cannot be where there are women and men. That is simply what we are discussing today, namely in relation to misunderstood special considerations. It does not promote integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201162536	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201162540	Now I've almost all the years I've lived, gone into gender-separated locker rooms, and I think that's nonsense. I have, however, traditionally brought my boy in there, and our daughter went with her mother into the other dressing room because we accepted the social control that there is that one cannot look at each other naked. I think it's a strange thing. I'd rather go swimming with men and women without clothes on. It took a little time before I dared, because I don't think my body is as beautiful as it should be, but I've learned that you just have to be proud that you have your own forms. And I think that this is a strange discussion which hits an ethnic group or a religious group which the rapporteur does not like, rather than saying: how do we move that group? That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201162627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201162629	I am very pleased that we have taken this debate today and I know that the Enhedslisten does not agree with this. At least we have come up with a resolution to take the debate, because it does not help that we take special care in our public institutions, in today's institutions, or that praying rooms are being set up in educational establishments. This is not the right way to go. I know that Enhedslisten disagrees with the Danish People's Party. Enhedslisten always believes that there is something underlying it. I really like that, sir. Christian Juhl wanted to bathe with the women, and that's very good. That is not what this resolution is about. It is about the special considerations that we must avoid in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201162714	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201162727	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Mattias Tesfaye as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201162749	Thank you very much. Today is a good day for Denmark, I think. And this is a good day for the Social Democracy, because we come a little closer to solving a major social problem, namely the lack of internships. Although the government has actually recently rejected the lack of skilled workers in the future, it is a view which they are rather alone in. Both the Danish Employers' Association, which says that we will be missing 60,000 in the year 2025, the Workers' Movement's Business Council, the LO, the Danish Industry and everything that can creep and go, are reasonably agreed that we will be lacking skilled. It is therefore also gratifying that the government itself now chooses to put forward a bill after some tripartite negotiations which, according to the Social Democratic assessment, will remedy the lack of internships and thus increase the proportion of skilled workers in Danish society. So the model presented by the government, in agreement with the trade union movement and employers' organisations, is based on the same principles as the proposal that we ourselves, on the part of the Social Democratic Party, have been proposing for some time, namely that companies that take few pupils should pay more to companies that take more pupils. It is a model that the government has previously rejected as a solution to the internship shortage, and we are therefore of course particularly pleased that we have managed to get this bill tabled anyway. We would have imagined a more simple and transparent model for making this redistribution between companies, but we also respect the fact that it would be a model that would be able to pool support in the business world, and that is why we now have a relatively complicated model in the first place. My personal assessment is that we will have to adjust more of the details in the coming years as we see the effects of the new legislation. But that time, that grief. Right now, we have reason to welcome the incorporation of a lever into the legislation, at least the first steps in the direction that can be followed if we want to increase the economic benefits of taking responsibility for education. The Social Democratic Party believes that both employers and Parliament have for many years failed thousands of young people by not having enough internships. It simply cannot be done if we want to continue to maintain a vocational training system that alternates between school placements and practical training in a real company, and so today there is reason to welcome the fact that employers in their response to the consultation signal that they are ready to take that responsibility. Now it's our turn as Parliament. We support the proposal and look forward to a good reading of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201163014	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Marlene Harpsøe as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201163022	Denmark needs more skilled training. I am so proud to be a skilled person myself, and we need even more people standing in that line. It is incredibly important that a tripartite agreement has been reached between the former V government and the labour market organisations. In my view, this is a good agreement which focuses precisely on creating the internships that are lacking, and the draft law here contains elements from the tripartite agreement on sufficient and qualified labour throughout Denmark and on internships. It is an agreement that has the clear objective of creating 8 000 to 10.000 more internships, because it is essential to get more skilled people to have internships. For too long there has been uncertainty in many vocational training programmes. The uncertainty was whether you could actually complete your education if there was no internship, and an offer of a school internship is just not the same as being out in the real world, out in a real workplace. In the Danish People's Party we have therefore taken a critical view of the participation of employers in creating the necessary internships here, and we therefore welcome the fact that we have moved in the right direction in relation to the tripartite agreement that has been concluded. One of the things that we in the Danish People's Party have wanted and also announced publicly is that the AUB contribution should be adjusted. It should not be worthwhile for a company to say no to taking in students when at the same time it was possible to use the labour force, i.e. someone who had already been trained. We in the Danish People's Party have been satisfied with the agreement that has been reached because some compromises have been sought, and we can at least see that employers have given themselves in this area, so it is positive. But we are still far from achieving it. Several political agreements have been made, including here at Christiansborg, in this area, and I myself have also helped to conclude some of them, i.e. on internships, and it is clear that we in the Danish People's Party will, of course, keep an eye on whether we are meeting the objectives set out in the tripartite agreement. In any case, we will do what we can to keep employers in the ears, so that the important work placements are also created. In the Danish People's Party we can support the bill. We know there's gonna be some more laws in this area. This is something that applies from 2017, but we can therefore look forward to dealing with some more matters relating to the tripartite agreement, and I will also look forward to doing so on behalf of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201163340	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Anni Mathiesen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201163347	Thank you for that, President. Today we are dealing first with L 85, which, as has already been said, is a partial implementation of this tripartite agreement, which the former Left Government and the social partners entered into in August of this year. In the Left, of course, we are voting in favour of this bill, and we are doing so with great pleasure. Indeed, we believe that it is a very important and indeed also very good agreement that we are now getting more focus on creating more internships. It is therefore very gratifying that the social partners, together with the former Left Government, took the joint responsibility to ensure that the young people of the future also have a place in the labour market, and I would also like to acknowledge on behalf of the Left that the social partners were thus involved in this responsibility. When I meet vocational school students around the country, I almost always hear about the great challenge of finding internships, and we know that this is a challenge which, unfortunately, sometimes also makes it difficult for very many skilled young people, who otherwise have a great dream, to become skilled. Therefore, this step, which is the first step, is an important step to take in order to focus on creating more internships. In this way, the tripartite agreement is a helping hand for young people who want vocational training and who are struggling to find work placements, and with the agreement here we know that work is being done to create some 2 000 additional internships as early as 2018. It makes me incredibly confident that this has been possible, i.e. that an ambitious tripartite agreement has been reached, and I am convinced that the agreement will help to ensure that qualified labour will also be included in the labour market of the future. It is important that we take action to address this problem, and I have to say that otherwise it can have major and also fatal consequences for Danish society in general, and therefore it is the right way to go now, that is to say, that a common agreement has been reached on how we can solve the problem. The previous government has set ambitious and concrete targets for how many people will have to take vocational training in the future, and the tripartite agreement helps us to take a step in the right direction in order to achieve that goal. I hope, then, that L 85 will help to solve a challenge that we are facing, and I can of course also say in the end that in the Left we are voting in favour of this bill, and at the same time I should also welcome the Conservatives and say that they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201163700	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left, and the next speaker is Mr. Jakob Silverhøj as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201163708	Thank you. In Enhedslisten we strongly doubt that the tripartite agreement on internships concluded back in August will make a significant contribution to solving the internship problem. There is a great need for initiatives to change the catastrophic shortage of internships, which in September was estimated to be just over 14 000. In our view, there is not really anything in the concrete content of the tripartite agreement that really makes it possible for the overall objective of increasing the number of internships over a number of years by 8 000 to 10.000 to actually be achieved. If this were to be the case, it would be very far from solving the real need for internships. It is of course the case that an objective has been formulated that by 2025 we should have achieved that 30%. of a youth year will receive vocational training. I fully agree with that, but that means that the internship needs are far, far greater than the overall objective. In short, we believe that there is too much hot air in the objective of the tripartite agreement. We believe that the short-term objective of 2,100 more internships in 2018 is, on the one hand, very little ambitious and, on the other hand, very unclear. Because it should be noted that the growth of the 2,100 seats has to be seen in relation to the level of 2016, which we do not yet know for good reasons. On the one hand, the unclear and unambitious objectives of the agreement reflect very well the legislative tools to be used to achieve the objectives. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that it is basically very sensible to use financial incentives to reward employers who create more internships and, on the other hand, to penalise employers financially who do not lift their share of the employers' joint obligation to provide more internships. The amounts agreed in the tripartite agreement are just too small, in the view of Enhedslisten, to seriously provide an economic incentive for the employer to change practices. As far as the whole structure of benefit programmes is concerned, we are concerned that the conditions laid down for triggering a bonus are too intricate and may ultimately show up together with the dimensioning clause that lies in coming to a negative impact on the number of internships. We therefore believe that it is extremely important to follow developments closely and that we are ready to quickly change the design if it proves not to be positive. All in all, therefore, we are of the opinion that the tripartite agreement is far from solving the internship problem. However, I would also like to say that, as several other speakers have said, it is not, as we know, the overall internship structure that should be reflected in this proposal. And we would also like to acknowledge that the elements contained in the proposal may be a small step in the right direction. As I have said, we are sceptical about the design of benefit courses, but we hope that the proposal can contribute to a slight increase in the number of places for work placements, and we will therefore support the proposal in the overall assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201164103	There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201164107	Thank you. I would just like to take this opportunity to put a more detailed question to the rapporteur, because is it true that the Enhedslisten does not actually recognise the tripartite agreement that has been concluded, where the social partners agree to tackle the model in this way? Is that correct or did I misheard in the rapporteur's speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201164131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201164135	I mean, I recognize that it has been concluded. And as the questioner knows, I have had my roots in the trade union movement for many years. On the other hand, I also have that view today, and so did I when I was in the trade union movement, that it is not the case that the trade union movement and employers can commit the Folketing to anything because they enter into a tripartite agreement with the government. So, of course, we listen when the parties act on this case. This is also the way to run the whole vocational training system. However, we do not believe that the three parties can commit the Folketing to anything if the Folketing considers that there are wiser solutions to be used instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201164210	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201164212	Now I know that it is limited how much time we have, but I would like to ask directly: what does Enhedslisten think should be the wiser solution? In the rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur mentioned that the bonus was too small. What's it gonna take for Enhedslisten to think this bonus is big enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201164233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201164236	You have to look at the combination of what has been put forward here, and then what is presented once in the spring, where this is the reward part and the other is the penalty part. I am not going to throw out a very precise figure here, but I am convinced also from the various reactions that have been, from experts in the field, from critical parties in the field that it is the general assessment that this is not moving anything further. In general terms, it must be the case that it is more expensive for an employer not to set up an internship than to set up an internship, and this has not been achieved at all by these figures.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201164311	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Henrik Dahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201164319	First of all, of course, I would like to congratulate you on your appointment as the new minister. I'm sure we're gonna have a good working relationship. We are, of course, in line with the Tripartite Agreement's premise that access to sufficient and qualified labour in Denmark is a prerequisite for growth and prosperity in the future. There it is very important that there be skilled labour. It is important that vocational training becomes something that comes seriously into the minds of young people when they have to choose a path after primary school. In order for vocational training to become attractive, it is necessary to ensure that an internship in the course of the training is provided as an educational seeker. The task of ensuring the provision of internships is a very, very important one, and we are pleased that the social partners have arrived at a solution. What is being proposed is that the training contribution should be increased and then the VEU contribution reduced. In fact, we think that is a very sensible solution. The two bonus schemes for companies are also very reasonable, and hopefully this will provide an economic incentive for employers to create internships. All in all, then, it is a good, necessary legislative proposal that starts the work of the new minister, and it is a proposal that we naturally support in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201164509	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201164519	Thank you. I'll be relatively brief. In the alternative, we also support this bill. We are just as concerned as all other parties about the lack of internships that we have seen for a long time, and we very much support this attempt to give companies a greater incentive to actually create some internships by means of these two different bonus schemes that lie in the bill. I would like to make a few comments or reflections that we have had in connection with this bill. One is in relation to the possibility that a company may receive a bonus if, for example, they are: take in more trainees than they have had in previous years. Will there be an inherent incentive in this that you may as a company stop taking in trainees, that is to say, just as you start up again to show that you are taking in more people? If that is going to be a problem, then we have to pay attention to it. The second goes on this positive list, the list of advantages that Enhedslisten's rapporteur raised some concerns about. We've looked into it, too. Now it will be exciting to see how it will be concretely designed. What we might be worried about is that the list of benefits is looking only at a low level of unemployment because it is at least important to us in the Alternative that when you look at which companies or which areas to provide internships, it is not only about business considerations, but also about what kind of business we want our society to actually have. So, what kind of educated people are they in the professional professions that we would also like to have in our future? And we think that these considerations should also be taken into account in relation to the list of advantages, i.e. what kind of work you want in the future in Denmark. There's one last thing. In fact, the tripartite agreement refers to primary school as a place where we also have to take action to make it more attractive for young people to apply to vocational training. It's not in this bill, but we would have liked it to have been written into the notes because we actually believe that the most important place to take action, if we want more people to apply for vocational training, is the primary school, that is, by strengthening the craft trades in school. But these are some minor considerations. All in all, we support the draft law of the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201164749	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Lotte Rod as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201164757	Thank you. I would also like to start by congratulating the new minister. The Minister, together with the Minister for Children and Education, has received the most important post, and we have great expectations of that. More young people have to take vocational training because it is important and wonderful to be able to have a craftsmanship and because more skilled people are needed in Denmark. This bill is the first part of the tripartite agreement, which deals with internships, and the proposal is to change employers' training contributions so that there can be a higher wage refund in 2017. With the proposal, we also create two bonus schemes for employers. One bonus scheme is for the so-called benefit programmes, and the other is for the employers who increase the number of pupils. Then we also change the rule as to when to start school practice on benefit courses, so that it becomes a little more flexible. In the Radical Left, we basically think that these are some fine measures, and we are therefore happy to support the draft law. And then we look forward to the second part: the part that is about making a difference, so that employers who do not take apprentices have to pay a little more than those who take apprentices. It was, of course, one of the things that was quite ultimate for the Left at the time when we negotiated the reform of the vocational schools that we could not look at at at all, and that is why I was so pleased when I saw the tripartite agreement, which shows that first the Left Government and now the Tripartite Government have changed their position and become wiser. So we look forward to that part coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201164947	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. And the next speaker in line is Mr. Karsten Hønge as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201164959	It is good that the trialogue negotiations can play a part in creating long-lasting solutions. It is also good to have any initiative that provides more internships. But the level of ambition is disappointing in that agreement. It may be difficult to calculate how many people are missing an internship, but the number is probably somewhere between 10,000 and 14,000. Why, then, is there a level of ambition that places itself between 8 000 and 10,000? And why do we allow the scheme to be phased in over as long as we need to achieve the level of ambition? In SF's view, this makes no sense, because it is here and now that thousands of young people are looking for an internship. So we also have some mixed experience of voluntary agreements with employers. After all, the process of the IGU agreements speaks a clear language so that we can see today that we have reached 81 agreements. We would therefore like to see more firm agreements with a somewhat clearer impact on employers. We would also very much like to see the quality of school practice improved both in the tripartite negotiations, but above all through political agreements. We see school practice as a permanent integral part of vocational training, but the quality of the SF must support this proposal, but, as I have done here on behalf of the SF, I want to raise the flag for the gaps in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201165157	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Education, who is also to be congratulated on his appointment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201165207	Thank you very much. And thank you very much for the many congratulations. It is, of course, an extremely privileged position to be able to stand here as Minister today and talk about an area which is so close to my heart. It is incredibly important for our vocational training to work. They are a fantastic starting point for young people in terms of getting a practical training course and making a living with it. In many cases, this offers good opportunities in the labour market and in life at all. I am pleased that the draft law focuses on the need to train more skilled people and that the skilled workers who are trained should have more experience in working in a company. In addition, it would be very good and useful for young people to choose more vocational training, where more skilled people are needed and which they have good opportunities to carry out. In recent years, several initiatives have been taken to strengthen the skills of pupils and thus provide the basis for more skilled workers and the creation of more internships. The objective of the vocational training reform is that at least 25%. must choose vocational training directly after the 9th or 10th grade in 2020 and that the proportion should reach 30%. in 2025. Several have to complete an initial training. The objective is that completion should increase from 52 per cent. in 2012 to at least 60%. in 2020 and at least 67 per cent; in 2025. The government wants vocational training to be the first choice for much more young people after primary school, and so in August this year the government concluded a tripartite agreement on sufficient and qualified labour throughout Denmark and internships together with the social partners. The draft law forms the first part of the implementation of the internship-relevant elements of the tripartite agreement. The bill adjusts the employer's contribution in order to finance an increased salary reimbursement in 2017. At the same time, temporary bonus schemes will be introduced from 2017 to employers taking trainees in vocational training. One bonus scheme is aimed at employers who take pupils in from the new benefit programmes, while the other bonus scheme is aimed at employers who increase the number of pupils with training agreement in the company compared to the years 2014 and 2016. Bonus in the two proposed schemes is calculated and paid out in 2018. In this context, for the new benefit courses, the existing obligation of vocational training pupils, after which school practice must start exactly one month after the completion of the initial course, is changed into a more flexible system. At the end of the initial programme, students will be able to wait until three months after completion of the initial course at the internship centre. I am grateful for the fact that the draft law has received a favourable treatment here at first reading and looks forward to any questions that may arise during the committee's reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201165526	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201165533	Thank you. I don't want to hide the fact that it's a big day for me. It's been 17 years since I first discussed whether we should do something like this. So for me, this is a big day. While the Minister has been rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, I have also discussed what we should do about the lack of internships, and in this respect it has been the view of the Minister of Education that we did not refer to the Minister while she was rapporteur, particularly to a report from the Danish Evaluation Institute, which referred to apprenticeships in particular. Germany and Austria. Let me ask you this: is it the government's view that apprenticeship pay should be reduced in order to create a greater incentive for companies to take apprentices?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201165629	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201165632	It is the government's view that it was a good idea to make a tripartite agreement which focused on the field of internship. We agreed on these tools, and we expect them to be able to move in the right direction. Will that be enough to get the internship going? We must evaluate and keep an eye on this on an ongoing basis. But there are high expectations that this will move in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201165656	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201165659	After all, we agree with the government on this, and that is also why both the Minister and the Social Democrats are going to vote in favour of this bill. But the reason why I think this is a little interesting is that we are standing with one leg in a private collective bargaining procedure where large parts of the apprentices' and pupils' salaries are negotiated. And the very parties with which the government has concluded this agreement will have to sit before each other in a few months' time and discuss what the apprentices' wages will be. I think it would be interesting for them and, by the way, everyone who has a share in the Danish labour market to know whether the current Minister of Education hopes that the negotiations will end with apprenticeships being reduced in order to create internships.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201165737	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201165740	Salary is something that is decided by the social partners, and what we are discussing today is the tripartite agreement concluded by the previous government, which this government fully supports. As I have said, the expectation is that this agreement will be very much in the right direction in terms of creating internships. That is the hope and expectation, and that is what we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201165806	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201165822	The debate is open. And the first rapporteur is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201165839	Thank you. I said before that it is a good day for Denmark today. But at the same time, I also think it's a bad day. Because we now have an incoherent and antisocial bill, I think, and this bill seems to have the support of a narrow majority here in Parliament. With the proposal, the production school allowance will be significantly reduced for some of the country's most vulnerable young people, while the state will save almost 80 million. kr. annually that can then be used to ease the top tax or remove the inheritance tax for some of the richest families in the country. The proposal is presented with an ambition that the service should be harmonised to the SU level, although a detailed examination of the legislative proposal reveals that today we are dealing with a legislative proposal which does not in any way guarantee such harmonisation. First of all, young people cannot choose whether or not to attend production schools. This happens only after a visit from the municipality, if it is estimated that they are not able to take a job or complete an education. The aim is precisely to make them ready to move forward, to get an education and to become self-supporting. More than 10,000 young people today carry out such a course every year. Most schools do it very well. I myself am on the board of such a production school in Ishøj, and it is a huge honour. The teaching of a production school is built around the work. Most young people take an education in order to get a job, but these young people have to learn to work before they can take an education, and therefore the teachers act as managers and daily life is arranged as a working day, and therefore the work is done for customers, and therefore the students are not given SU, but pay that is paid backwards after well done work. It is the pedagogy that runs the production schools, and therefore any ambition to harmonise with the SU runs counter to the very idea behind the school form. However, even if the government actually had ambitions for such harmonisation, there are several things that amaze me, and I have several questions. What about production school pupils who are parents? Should they also be given the possibility of double pay, just as parents at SU have the option of double clips? Students at the SU may be absent from the classes and still receive the same payment. Students at a production school will continue to be drawn into their services. How can this be harmonisation? The SU for young people is calculated on the basis, at least for some, of parents' income. Does the government itself really believe that the parent's income on the basis of the new reduced benefit corresponds to the income of the production school pupils' parents? I can at least say for Ishøj that it does not in any way correspond to that. In fact, they may be 500 or even 1,000 kroner. Under what they'd get if they started high school. The SU system is closely linked to the possibility of obtaining favourable SU loans. This is something the government itself argues with in their proposal to lower the SU and increase the loan possibilities. But the pupils in the production schools do not have that opportunity. The SU system is a support for young people in education, but next to it most students, fortunately, have income from a leisure job. Is it the government's view that pupils at production school should have evening work alongside their full-time work at the production school? SU recipients also have long vacations with the opportunity to make money. Students in production schools have only the 5 weeks holiday period, which is also described in the holiday law. Are production school pupils given the same opportunities for special allowances if they are disabled, as are SU recipients? Finally, the new government is warning of a deterioration in the overall SU level. Is it also the Government's ambition that the production school allowance should be reduced accordingly? Now, these are eight good questions to which we have not yet received an answer in consultation with and in questions to the Minister, at least not satisfactory answers. They are blowing the wind because, in our opinion, the bill is not well thought out at all. The Social Democratic Party fully recognises the need to clean up the preparatory offers for young people between primary and secondary education. This also applies to benefits, I would like to emphasise. That is why we have also supported the setting up of the committee of experts to make recommendations in this area, and we are pleased that the new government basis maintains that group of experts. But shouldn't we have some ice in our stomachs and wait for their recommendations for a new, coherent offer to this target group instead of sewing ill-thought-out and antisocial patches on the existing one? We will be actively involved in the forthcoming committee work to get answers to the questions I asked before, just as we believe that the committee should consider the possibility of compensating pupils in a different way. It could, for example, be done. be some of the offers made by schools in connection with breakfast and lunch arrangements in schools. This could be support for the purchase of safety shoes, work clothes or for some of the transport costs that students have. These are all important elements in school life and the everyday lives of pupils. We hope that the majority in this House will take a positive view of such proposals not only for the sake of pupils but also for the sake of society, because we need more young people to be educated, especially as skilled people, and we fear that this bill will move in the opposite direction. For this reason too, the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201170331	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Marlene Harpsøe as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201170339	Following on from what the Socialist rapporteur has just said, I have to start with what is being claimed, namely that the funds found here are going to top tax relief and to lower the inheritance tax. I'm sorry to have to say to Mr. Knox. Mattias Tesfaye, that it may well be that it is a wish of the Social Democrats that they will do just that, but they do not. This is not part of the Financial Law Agreement, which, among other things, includes: The Danish People's Party is involved. It's just to tell you. Period. It is important for us in the Danish People's Party that young people take an education. It is not everyone who is ready to take an upper secondary education right after primary school, some start an upper secondary education, but have to interrupt it. To go to a production school is precisely what it takes for them to become ready for training. The production schools do a great and important educational work in raising young people and giving them the resources, the self-esteem and the skills that enable them to take an education and make them masters of their own lives. In August the Left Government presented a draft budget in which, among other things, they presented a draft budget. wanted to change the school allowance to the pupils at our production schools. Firstly, the proposal was that young people under the age of 18 should no longer receive a school allowance if they attended a production school, and secondly, the previous government's proposal was that young people over the age of 18 should receive a school allowance at the level of other young people at the SU. The proposal was not sown in the garden of the Danish People's Party. We believe that the system was fine as it was, but we are therefore never the ultimate in our demands when we enter into negotiations. The Finance Act is the art of compromise, and if you are not willing to compromise, neither can you negotiate. We in the Danish People's Party managed to ensure that there is still school allowance for young people under the age of 18, which the government would otherwise not provide school allowance. So this bill will continue to provide you with school benefits. Young people over the age of 18 will also continue to receive school benefits, and yes, it is at a lower level. But the amount is at the same level as that which other young people receive at SU, just as it is for a shorter period of time they go to a production school. The production schools have an economical and important tool which means that pupils can be withdrawn from school if they have an unjustified absence from school. That tool would disappear if the government's proposal to remove the school allowance for young people under the age of 18 were adopted. In the Danish People's Party we have ensured that this particular tool can continue to be used for young people under 18 years of age. We in the Danish People's Party are concerned that there are comparable conditions for the young people who are getting a school grant at SU level in the future, and the young people who are receiving SU today. Young people over the age of 18 who receive a school allowance should not be placed at a disadvantage in relation to the SU recipients and the opportunities they have. This is true, for example. loans on particularly favourable terms, which are something we want to take up with the government. The draft law we are discussing here is, as I said, part of the financial law agreement, and I would like to mention some of the things that we in the Danish People's Party also included in the financial law agreement: 2 billion. kr. for the elderly, more police officers and politicians to assist border police in border control, more severe penalties for the illegal possession of firearms, 2.4 billion. kr. to Cancer Plan IV and much more and yes, we also ensured that there is still school allowance for the youngest pupils in the production schools. The Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201170800	There are a number of brief comments. And the first questioner is Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201170805	This morning, a news report was published at www.dr.dk, which tells of a young man from Skanderborg, who says that with the economic level now laid for the school allowance, he would not have been able to be admitted to a production school, but would then have preferred to go down to the municipality and announce that he wanted to receive cash benefits because he simply would not be able to live on the amount that one could get in school allowance. Is it not a concern of the Danish People's Party that there will be young people who today get a good way into the education system via the production schools, who must now either give up applying to the production schools or will drop out of the production schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201170907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201170908	I hope that a production school based solely on economics is not chosen. But we are willing to see if there is something we can correct in relation to this, with a school grant, where the amount is going to be at an SU level in the future, and then look at whether there are some things, some benefits that the SU recipients have, which we could say with good will it was all right and fair that you also got if you were on a school grant and were over 18 years old. So this is something that we are addressing with the government, as I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201170949	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201170950	It can be said that it is a little late to want to raise it at this stage, since an agreement has been reached. But now that within the next 14 days to 3 weeks there will be a report from the committee of experts set up in the world to assess what we can do overall in relation to the preparatory offers, was it not the case that the Danish People's Party would consider saying that this must be suspended until there is a report from the committee of experts so that we can have a joint debate on it, instead of first reducing the school allowance and then having a discussion on how to compensate for it? Isn't that being too late out?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171038	We don't feel we're too late. Nothing is ever too late, on the contrary. One of the things we are obviously concerned with, like Enhedslisten, is that you look together at the whole area, in relation to how to ensure a good transition from primary to secondary education, and we are also looking forward to that report coming. We have high expectations of it, and we think it is a financial law that we can rightly say we can vouch for. There are some very good things in it, and then there are some things where we have had to compromise a little, but overall it is a very good financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171118	The next question is Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171122	The draft law states that it is important that the level of benefits does not determine the choice of school and education for young people. Is the Danish People's Party aware that there is already a completely false premise for the bill, because the young people cannot just choose a production school, but must be visited for it? Has it gone over the head of the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171148	It has by no means crossed our minds that we are being searched for a production school. It is the UU counselors who are responsible for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171157	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171159	But how can this be linked to the fact that it says here that it is important that the level of expenditure does not determine the choices of young people, as if there were an opportunity for them to be chosen, when the rapporteur specifically agrees that it is not possible to choose them? That is absurd, so the basis of the law does not make sense, so if the rapporteur clearly recognizes from the platform that the basis laid before the law is false.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171222	I think we are distorting what is in the text. Even if the young person is frisked into going to a production school, it is not the case that the young person can be required to actually go to a production school, and that is because it is not a competence-giving training but a clarifying course. But I would like the young people who benefit from attending a production school to choose to go there too, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171249	The next question is Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171253	Thank you. DF's rapporteur, Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, says that it is not a thought that has grown in their gardens. Then the question is: why is it then supported? The Danish People's Party hasn't got a honk out of it, nor ministries, so why is it that you're not waiting for this committee of experts when you say you're looking forward to watching it? Why are events being anticipated by coming here and supporting a proposal for lower benefits? I would also just like to know if it is not the case that the rapporteur has heard from his own rapporteur in the Danish People's Party that we actually made an agreement in 2004 about a production school service, which was in the government programme called "More in work," which had our support, because we thought it was actually good. It hasn't been canceled, it still exists away. How come you go in there and you break a deal like that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171350	We don't break a deal. We always stand by the agreements we make. We also stand by the Finance Act. And when sir... Bjarne Laustsen says that we in the Danish People's Party have not got a honk out of the Finance Act, I must say that then it may be that Mr. Bjarne Laustsen was supposed to look at that bill again. I would like to repeat what I also said in my rapporteur's speech, namely that some of what we, among others, have said. has secured, is 2 billion. kr. more for the elderly, for better food, among other things. in the country's nursing home. It is also that we can hire some more police officers, because that is one of the things we do, among other things. There is a great deal missing in our society, and we have also got money, over 2 billion. kr., for e.g. a cancer plan IV, and then there are a number of things where it is that we just have to say that it is really a financial law that we are very pleased about. Of course, there are also some things that we would have preferred to see differently, but that is the art of compromise. It always is. That is also the case when the Social Democratic Party participates in financial law negotiations; then it will be an art to find those crucial compromises unless you have 90 mandates on your own, and you rarely do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171501	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171503	I apologise for the fact that the rapporteur is not well versed in the situation in the iron industry. When I said a honk, it can be translated into a car. I have learned that other parties become very devoted when one gets a honk, a ministerial car. That is what I said, and the Danish People's Party has not got that out of it. So you haven't got a honk out of supporting this proposal in the negotiations, and therefore... [Sound emission]... had waited for the committee of experts now set up, and when the rapporteur says that you don't break an agreement, why is it you do this? Because we made an agreement together in 2004 about what the production school service was supposed to be. There's no reason to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171546	Now I know sir. Bjarne Laustsen's whim, so I will refrain from commenting further on whether the Danish People's Party has got a honk of it, but I can at least say that in the Finance Act we have got some very good initiatives through, and at least we also have among other things. In this context, it is important to ensure that young people who are currently attending a production school and who are under the age of 18 can continue to receive a school allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171613	The next question is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171617	Can the rapporteur be concerned that this bill will mean that there will be more young people than there are today who drop out of production schools and end up on cash aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171639	I do not think that a production school is necessarily chosen solely for the sake of the economy. I hope you don't, you know, make that choice. But if someone thinks it is more advantageous to be on educational aid, then I would just like to say that this does not mean that one can then look forward to lying in the hammock. On the contrary, the job centres have a wide range of tools that can be used to ensure that young people are clarified, for example. in the form of business-oriented processes, etc. So you should not at least think that you will be at home on the couch if you opt out of the production school because you are not satisfied with the performance there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171730	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171731	I do not think anyone thinks that it is a question of whether or not you are satisfied with that performance. That is certainly not the intention of my question. The reason for my question is, of course, that you cannot live for the benefit you receive in the future, as you can with the benefit you receive today. That's what's gonna be the problem. It is about a lot of young people who have set their spending levels and, in general, their lives after a school allowance that they are receiving today and which is now drastically reduced. Then you say that you harmonise to the SU level because you compare it to, among other things. vocational schools. But does the rapporteur not agree with me that we do not have the same option, for example? To go out and supplement your income with a leisure job when you go to a production school, as if you were. Going to high school?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171819	I do not want to say that there is absolutely no possibility of supplementing a leisure job. It's something that it must be up to the individual if you can. I do not think that we can say anything in general about whether a production school pupil, for example. may take a few hours in Netto on Saturdays or as a bottled girl in Kvickly, as I myself have been. I believe that from one situation to the next and from one person to the next, we have to decide whether it is something we can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171857	The next question is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201171900	Thank you. We fully understand that, of course, a heel must be cut and a toe cut when making a bill, that is what it is in here. But it is clear that when the largest bourgeois party goes to finance negotiations and looks at such a thistle in the then Left Government's draft Finance Bill and it then becomes so lame a concession, then I think there are many who stump a little and think that in a situation where it is progressing for the Danish economy and Danish economy basically feels healthy, why is it that we need to joke on some of those who have the most difficulty, in a way that we come to with this bill. Now the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says that the party is preoccupied with comparable conditions and that they will take up with the government, for example. to discuss the favorable loans. I think that is fine, and we could then add parents going to production school and disabled people going to production school. We would also like to discuss whether the rate is too low, i.e. whether the SU level that is being measured against is set too low, and then we would like to discuss lunch arrangements, work clothes, transport costs and other things that we intend to address in committee. Would it not be wiser for the Danish People's Party, together with the Social Democratic Party and other parties, to discuss this in the committee work instead of the Danish People's Party taking it up alone with the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201172019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201172020	After all, this is an agreement that has been reached with the V government, with LA and with K, which is now a VLAK government, and that is why, of course, it is also there that we are taking the necessary discussions on the possible further action that will be taken in this area. And then I'll just have to say something to mr. Mattias Tesfaye, because you try to set things up in a weird way. First, it was from Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, that this was going to lower the inheritance tax and to top tax relief, which is lie and Latin. And now Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, that it is a pitiful concession we have received in the Danish People's Party. I mean, I think you should be careful who you start shooting at, among other things. Danish People's Party. I have also heard the Social Democrats shooting at top tax concessions, but even during the reigns they have helped to give top tax relief, and we can continue to do so. It is, of course, the art of compromise, both when you are in government and when you are outside and so participate as a responsible party in some financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201172133	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201172135	Well, the reason why I am of course interested in knowing whether the Danish People's Party is going to engage constructively in such discussions in the Committee on Children's and Education is that I can figure out that all of us have only 89 seats, so if we are going to have some of this through, we need the votes of the Danish People's Party. We are opposed to this bill, but although we are opposed to it, we would like to help adjust it a little and improve it where it is obviously stupid, and it is in those places where it is in no way comparable to an SU level. I could understand that the Danish People's Party was preoccupied with comparable terms, so should we not sit down quietly and acknowledge that we disagree with the bill, but find out how we can make it as comparable as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201172216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201172217	We can talk about the school allowance everything we want in the Committee on Children's and Education, just as we can take up so many other things, so I just think we do. But the discussions, the proper discussions, are, after all, taking place in the context of negotiations on the Finance Act. Well, that's right. For once in your life, sir. Mattias Tesfaye something really is needed for DF's voices. Because there is. Those were some votes that we succeeded in in relation to the Finance Act. We got a lot of stuff through. We also got through that young people under 18 years of age can receive the school allowance in the future. So yes, there is a need for DF's voices, and it is also we who are taking this further to the government and suggesting that we look at how we can ensure some comparable conditions between the pupils who are today and are receiving school benefits in the future, and then the SU recipients.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201172309	The next question is Mrs Annette Lind, Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201172312	Now we have discussed this very, very much in committee and we have had many visits. Everyone as one has said with great concern that this is not going to go well. It is also the case that I have sensed that the rapporteur, in many of his statements, has been concerned about the performance to be reduced. I am here with a paper, and it is Mrs Marlene Harpsøe herself who has written to the Minister, through the committee, about the opportunities and the right of production school pupils to earn holidays with the school allowance. There has also been an answer. But the fact is, this is a job. And that's why they're on vacation for 5 weeks, just like all other people. Then you say you're going to compare it and make an SU-like level. But such things as vacation are not comparable at all. What is the rapporteur's view of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201172405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201172406	It is true that I have asked what conditions apply to the organisation of holidays for people attending a production school, because it is of course nice to clarify. I also think it should be borne in mind that yes, there are some things that are difficult to compare, and yes, one of them is whether you have a school holiday or not, and how much you have, but that being said, you usually go to a production school for a much shorter period than you, for example. is in high school or in vocational training. I heard from Skanderborg Hørning Production School, which we had in the delegation the other day in the Children's and Education Committee, that a young person was on average 7 months under the auspices of the Production School. And so it is also said that it may well be that you move on to another place where there are some other holiday conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201172512	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201172513	As I have said, we have had a great many visits to the committee, and not later than this week, as the rapporteur himself says. Does the rapporteur not recognise that this is something that users are deeply, deeply concerned about? And then I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he believes that the changes in the level of school provision will have implications for the entry of pupils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201172536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201172537	If it is that one chooses the production school solely on the basis of an economic aspect and now becomes a pity that the benefit is being reduced, then of course I cannot deny that it can have a consequence for how many pupils go to a production school. But I now think that the production schools are really, really good in themselves. These are my heart children, I usually say, because they are doing a great job of ensuring that young people are raised both socially and personally to be able to move on and take a qualification.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201172619	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201172633	Thank you. L 87 must be seen in the context of the financial law that was found common ground here last week, as I believe it was. The Finance Act continues the financially responsible course for the Danish economy, and we have taken the view from day to day that it is important to have control of the economy. We are hand in hand with the economy and are working for our children to take over a Denmark in good condition in the future. With the financial law agreement, we will ensure a boost, among other things. We also strengthen the safety and security of the Danes, and we make it cheaper to be a Dane. In concrete terms, L 87 is a draft law dealing with the production schools and the performance of production school pupils. We adjust the benefit so that it is more similar to what other young students receive in the SU. I am aware that this proposal has given rise to a great deal of debate, and for the same reason I can tell you that I have also been on several visits to several production schools in recent months to come out and talk to both the young people and, for that matter, also discuss things with the heads of production schools. And I must say that I have no doubt at all that the production schools have a very important function in Denmark. They are an offer to young people who need a springboard to move forward either in education or into the labour market in a job. It is therefore a form of school in which young people have the opportunity to be better clarified, in relation to what they want in the future, and in that way to move forward. However, it is also important for me to stress that this is a shorter stay in which we can be clarified in terms of moving forward, either in terms of training for qualifications or using it as a springboard for finding work and entering the labour market. The production schools have a very good product, and many young people enjoy it very much. It has the production schools, even after L 87 has been adopted. I am convinced that the production schools, with their educational provision, can also continue to offer a stay that will move the pupils in a good direction. As the production schools themselves stress, it is not intended that a production school pupil should choose or have a stay at a production school on the basis of the money. The student must be at a production school because the school has the right offer for the student. And we're not gonna change the offer, we're gonna change the performance that the student receives. In the Left, we do not believe that it is sustainable for young people in a production school to receive higher benefits than, for example, in the United Kingdom. a young person who chooses a similar education such as: the combined youth education. We will, of course, vote in favour of the bill here. In this case, too, I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they are also voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173009	There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173017	Back in January, the Left Government set up a group of experts on better ways for youth education. According to the terms of reference, the committee must make recommendations to help more young people choose the right education for the first time. The focus should be on offerings in the transition between primary and upper secondary education. This concerns, among other things: on the production schools and the expert group will examine, and I quote, how appropriate incentive structures can be created with regard to pupils' dependency base. A group of experts was asked to assess this 11 months ago. How on earth can it be that the work of the Committee has been anticipated in the Finance Act, and how on earth can it be that we have the question at all for debate today?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173117	In short, we did not think that we could wait for the expert group's recommendations in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173127	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173130	I understand that the Left Government has therefore set up an expert group which has been working on it for 11 months, and a few weeks before the expert group had to submit its report, the government has found that the work it had started itself to assess the question of the school performance of the production school pupils to be superfluous.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173156	That is where the Enhedslisten rapporteur is quite wrong. We do not think that the work we have started is superfluous and we look forward very much to receiving these recommendations. I am quite sure that we will have some good discussions on this, hopefully in a wider group. I hope that there will be a great many other parties in the Folketing who will also take part in that debate when we receive these recommendations.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173222	Then it's mr. Bjarne Laustsen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173228	Thank you. In 2004, I helped to reach an agreement with the then rapporteur of the Left and the then Minister for Employment, Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen. We made an agreement that there should be something called school benefits, even if at that time, just as today, there was a suggestion that everyone, regardless of the type of training, should have SU. So I'd like to know why that deal doesn't exist anymore. The second question is whether Mrs Anni Matthiesen will not tell us what the similarity between a production school pupil and a third g in a high school is.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173302	Well, I have to say to the Socialist, sir. Bjarne Laustsen, that it is the case that, even after we have adopted the bill that we are now discussing, we are still getting a benefit. We will not change that; we will continue to receive a benefit. Then I have to say that I have some doubts about what Mr. Bjarne Laustsen means that I should try to say what the similarity between a high school student and a student attending a production school is. Well, I can put it that way that I assume they can be about the same age.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173338	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173340	Yeah, you can't deny that there's something about age. But now we are arguing here that there are two different systems, and it is appalling that the rapporteur from the Left does not know what the difference is between a production school pupil who gets paid for a job and the others who get SU to study. I thought it had been brought with me from childhood. I would like Mrs Anni Matthiesen to confirm that, if not almost all of them attend a production school, the majority of them have tried both academic and vocational training. There is a reason why you go to a production school, and it is because I do not think it has anything to do with the money, not at all that you cannot go directly and get an education like that. If we lose these young people on the floor, they won't get any education. It's the only offer that's for them. And we have shared the need to tighten up the requirements of vocational training. So there is a residual group here for whom there should be an offer that is reasonable and where they can get a salary that they can make a living on. Because it's a job 37 hours a week!
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173451	I fully agree with Mr. Bjarne Laustsen in that it is important that these young people, who get a few months in a production school, also move on. In fact, that is the whole idea of having a stay and being searched for a period at a production school. But I also hope that we agree that it should not be the case that one stays there for a long time, and that is why there is a ceiling. We should, of course, go further and hopefully subsequently get a qualification or, for that matter, get to work, to the labour market, and get to support ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173529	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173532	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left for his speech. The rapporteur says that the Left does not believe that it is sustainable for production school pupils to receive a benefit higher than that of others, such as pupils in coordinated youth education. Now the government has also proposed to reduce the SU level in general. This was stated in the 2025 plan, and this is clear from the new government base and therefore my question: does it also mean that it is the position of the Left that the production school allowance should be reduced accordingly if the government gets through with its policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173612	I can answer that very briefly, because what we are discussing today is the benefit that it looks like today. Hopefully, there will be a discussion on the whole of the SU when we get there in 2017. There we have to take that discussion and the discussion, which is why I am not going to deal with how it will affect the benefit that we are discussing today. It is in the future that we will be discussing a possible SU reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173641	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173643	It is, of course, all right that the rapporteur of the Left does not want to deal with it. I just imagine that there are quite a few people in Danish society who have an interest in, as the Folketing begins to discuss the SU level, knowing whether it will also include them. After today's debate, you will have the impression that there is a majority in the Danish Parliament who wants the production school service to have a level that is not higher than other benefits, for example. the coordinated youth training course. Don't they deserve an answer from the Left, from the government? Are these production school students supposed to understand that when we discuss SU, we are also discussing their performance?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173727	As the Socialist rapporteur is also aware, the proposal that we are discussing here today will include, among other things, the following: held an extra hand under the young people under the age of 18. It also means that it cannot be said that there is total equality between young people at the SU and these young people who attend a production school. One might also turn it around and ask whether this means that if there is to be total equality, we must also choose to eliminate the benefit for young people aged 17, because today young people aged 17 do not receive SU if they choose to go on youth education. So I have to say that we will take the discussion on the SU reform when we get there, but I will still hold on to the fact that it is reasonable to adjust the performance of the production schools, so that, for example, there is no doubt that this is the case. is equality in relation to young people who go on coordinated youth education.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173829	Sir. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173831	At the beginning of her rapporteur's speech, Mrs Anni Matthiesen said that it was the government's aim to make it cheaper to be a Dane. I am sure that thousands of homes today, where a young person attends a production school, will hear such a comment as today's greatest provocation. Today, when it is precisely intended to make it more expensive for those who are on the edge of the educational world and often also close to the bottom of society, we have to hear the rapporteur of the Left throwing out such a provocation, in the face of those people, by saying that the aim is to make it cheaper when we make it more expensive for the young people who have already got the very least of them in the school bag from primary school. Like provocation, I think you should look for a long time. I would like to ask the rapporteur's advice to young people, which I have heard from the rapporteur, namely that they can just go out and take a bank loan. I would therefore like to hear Mrs Anni Matthiesen's assessment of the ability of the average production school pupil to obtain a bank loan at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201173933	Well, I know that Mr. Karsten Hønge swings around with the big words, and I could hear that he did too at the Palace Square earlier today. I just have to say that I think it is only fair that there should be harmonisation in this area. Then I should be honest with you that I said in some interview that young people at production school must then take a bank loan, I admit that I am sorry. It was because I was a little upset that day.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201174006	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201174008	It's okay. It's okay. It's fresh, it's okay. It's rare we hear somebody pulling something back super! So I would like to ask another question, and that is: how many fewer pupils does the rapporteur expect to go to the production schools when the benefits are being cut sharply?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201174025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201174026	In fact, I do not expect fewer pupils to enter the production schools. I have to say that I have a great deal of confidence in young people who say yes and are also being searched for a few months at a production school. Because I think that young people can actually see for themselves that this will help them very well on their way in the future. I have to say that the young people I have visited at the production schools have in fact all been extremely happy to be there, and I am sure that young people can also see that this is actually a good helping hand to be better clarified in relation to which path they should choose in life forwards. So I am not concerned, as the SF's rapporteur apparently is. I believe, then, that the quality of these schools will ensure that there will still be a great many young people who choose this path and say yes when they are searched for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201174118	Mrs Annette Lind from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201174120	Thank you. Now it is to the very last thing you said, because it has almost sounded in the debate as if you could just choose a production school, but it is precisely the case that you are being searched for a production school, and therefore it is something that you do not just do. Mrs Anni Matthiesen has also been present in committee, while we have had the many, many people who are taking part, and we have also had consultations on this. There have been many who have been worried about many of the things that are going to happen. One of the things is that production school students are now being drawn for the food they eat at school. Can it not worry the rapporteur when you are doing the service so low and have a group of young people who may have their only meal of hot food at the production school they are going on that you do not have the opportunity to pay, for example. Being able to make breakfast and lunch?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201174216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201174217	Yes, it is true, as the Socialist rapporteur says, that we are being searched for a production school. But this is also done in dialogue with the young person himself. And I must say that until now I have not met any young people who, if they themselves have said no, have been pressured to take a stay at a production school. Then I must say that I myself have eaten with the young people at the production school in Odense. I myself have had some of the good food that they actually get, breakfast, lunch, and in some places you also get afternoon food or fruit. We have been informed that it costs about 95 kroner. And there I still have to hold on to the fact that you could turn it around and say: How many young people could get perhaps three good meals for 100 kroner. a week, three meals, which they can see can get five days a week at the production school? At least I know some people, even in their own ranks, who, although they themselves are lubricating the food package every day, cannot do it for 95 kroner. a week.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201174334	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201174336	Now I do not think it is the price that determines whether it should be the case that you should withdraw the benefit for these students. This is about getting a whole life and learning what it's like to go to work and how to shape your life. That's why this meal is incredibly important. I would like to ask the rapporteur: what are the consequences of this? If it is not in relation to student attendance, what other consequences can it have? After all, only the performance will be comparable to the SU. This is not the case with taking holidays in the same way as those who receive SU; nor is it in relation to taking a leisure time in the afternoon, because you go to school or work until the afternoon; you cannot borrow. What's going to happen to these students?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201174422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201174423	Well, I would be honest and acknowledge that, when there is a reduction in the benefit, there will of course be some that we may somehow risk saying that they are in a situation where they may have to prioritise differently. There may be examples of some who may live in an apartment that becomes a little too expensive in relation to the performance they get forward-looking, etc. I recognise that from the bottom of my heart. But I also still have to hold on to the fact that in comparison with, for example, the combined youth education, you get more money from the state today as a production school student, that is than you do if you choose, for example. a combined youth education. That is why I think it is only fair that we should try to adapt these things. Because by doing so, we also ensure that it is not the benefit that you get that you do not choose to go further, for example. To change direction along the way, because one is actually now clear that one would like to have a particular business path, even if one may then have to go down to the SU; then that is certainly not what helps to be the barrier.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201174533	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201174535	The rapporteur of the Left gave his reply to Mr. Mattias Tesfaye an example where there is a difference between the production school allowance and the SU. But if, after the SU negotiations, there is a difference between all benefits, then the arguments put forward by the Left completely lapse. If we now end up in a situation where there are two different benefits, I would ask whether we could not agree with the Left that we are setting up production schools again. Because then there's no argument for making this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201174608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201174609	I am not going to stand here in the Chamber today guessing what it will be like when we hopefully have a joint agreement on an SU reform. That would be pure guesswork on my part, and I will not stand here and promise that it will then affect the performance of the production school students.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201174628	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201174630	But can the rapporteur of the Left see the strangeness of the fact that today we stand and argue for the importance of harmonising, as the Left calls it, that is to say to have exactly the same level of production school provision and for the SU if, after the SU negotiations, we end up having two different levels anyway? Well, this bill doesn't make any sense. Then you might as well say it as it is: it is a purely austerity exercise.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201174702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201174703	First of all, this bill makes sense, so I do not agree with the radical rapporteur. And I have to say again that I was actually surprised that there has been the difference, i.e. that there has been, for example, a difference. In relation to the combined youth education, which is actually a similar training aimed at the same target group, this has been the major difference here. So I actually think that this bill corrects some things that perhaps should have been addressed a long time ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201174741	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. We shall now proceed to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201174749	Thank you. The proposal we are debating today is, in the view of the Enhedslisten, an exceptionally small proposal. It contains a completely unreasonable and I think that is also clear from the debate that there is a serious deterioration in the conditions of the pupils in the country's production schools. It undermines the educational basis of the entire school form and creates a very significant risk that in future some of the young people who benefit particularly from the educational provision of the production schools will opt out of the production schools because they cannot make their economy coherent. I think it makes it clear that we have a legislative proposal that may prove to have consequences that quite openly run counter to the ambition, which in many ways brings things together, to ensure that more young people have to undertake youth education. The production schools are a very good form of school for many of the young people who are not ready to embark on youth education after primary school. It is a very good form of school for young people who, because of the new restrictions on access, cannot be admitted to vocational training or who may have fallen from vocational training. It creates a new motivation for a great many young people, who are otherwise characterised by the fact that they are so tired of going to school. The fact that pupils are involved in production, precisely the fact that pupils are doing a job, is also precisely the good reason why it makes no sense to talk about the need to harmonise school provision to an SU level, and the debate that has just taken place in this Chamber shows how completely grotesque the main argument that it should be harmonised with the SU is when it turns out that we are not even able to get a clear answer as to whether harmonisation should be repeated if we lower the SU level. Life in the production schools is completely different from life in many other youth education programmes. You are paid out if you are absent, or at least you can be withdrawn as absent, as part of the educational method, and you are only entitled to five weeks' leave. In general, the schools operate on labour market terms, which is why it is quite natural and reasonable that we have also been able to hear the production school students say both here at the Palace Square today and yesterday afternoon in front of the Ministry of Education that you are paid for your work. When you read the many consultation answers that have come in, I think it is clear that there is enormous concern about the consequences of cutting school attendance. One is that it is quite unreasonable in itself to reduce the financial conditions of the pupils, but another is that many young people who would otherwise be in the target group of the production schools would completely opt out of that route or leave the production school early. It is, we must bear in mind, young people who already find it difficult to find a foothold in the education system, which is now in danger of being pushed further off course. Fortunately, this will not be the case for many of them, but I think it can be disastrous for some of the young people and their opportunities, both in terms of youth education and in terms of future employment opportunities and, in a broader sense, their opportunities for a good daily life. That is why it is an incredibly narrow-minded proposal that has been put forward here, which may even prove to be a really bad socio-economic business. This can be saved around 79 million. kr. a year here and now, but I guess not so many people really have a hand on their hearts that can be very much in doubt that it can be extremely expensive in a longer perspective if it means that thousands of young people get harder to get an education and get harder to get a job. At the same time, as I also noted in my question to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, it seems quite strange that we should consider at all a proposal to change the conditions for pupils in production schools shortly before the government's committee of experts has to present its recommendations on the future of production schools. It would then have been common sense to wait for the recommendations of the Committee of Experts before making such drastic changes as are the case here. I would therefore like to appeal to both the government, including the two new government parties, and to the Danish People's Party, however, to reconsider the matter once again, even though it is the case that it is obviously not in a position to argue that there is real harmonisation as soon as we talk about what is the future of the SU. So, for God's sake, pull the brakes, wait until we have the report from the Committee of Experts, and hear what the Committee of Experts thinks about how to provide financial incentives for pupils, so that we are not in the situation that, just before the committee presents its proposal, a large part of the support from the production school pupils is taken. We simply cannot be familiar with this. The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201175352	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. The fact that it lights red on the numerator means stop. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201175410	While the Minister was still rapporteur, we spent two very warm spring months sitting in the Ministry of Education sweating over the reform of high school, and one of the reasons why the negotiations took so long was a common view in the group of parties that negotiated that no young people must be lost when they leave primary school. I must say that there is no one there either; the opportunities for getting on the right shelf are really great. There is a broad system and a large system that ensures that everyone can find an education that corresponds to their needs and gives their lives a perspective, and part of this great diversity is the production schools. They fulfil an important role in creating meaning and direction in the lives of a group of young people who may not fit very well into the other institutions. But even if they fulfil this important role, which needs to be recognised, we, as responsible legislators, must also stand by the fact that there is not really a satisfactory reason why there should be a difference between school provision and the SU. It is difficult to see the logic, and the reasons are random, arbitrary and arbitrary. That is why we think it is reasonable and sensible that this proposal should provide for an equalisation so that the school benefits for the participants in the production schools are more in line with the general support schemes than they are today. That's why the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201175558	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201175601	Thank you. The Social Democratic Party and the Liberal Alliance disagree on the level of school attendance. It's such an honest case. However, as I understand the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, it is the party's view that there are only random, arbitrary and arbitrary reasons why you get a different service at the production school than you get in the other education system. So is the Liberal Alliance in favour of those who go to production school going to real SU?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201175629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201175631	No, it is good to have two systems that reflect two different school realities. But there is no such compelling reason why benefits should be of one size or the other. It is often a rather random historical situation that determines that you land where you land.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201175652	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201175653	Yes, I agree with the rapporteur. There is always a historical reason why things look the way they do. But if it is the rapporteur's starting point that there are only random, arbitrary and arbitrary arguments for having something in a production school, but getting something else if you go on vocational training or at a high school, shouldn't you just tone clean flags and say that if there is no difference, they should also get the same thing, and then they should just go to SU?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201175723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201175726	You could take that discussion another time, but now you have set up a system that is a two-tier system, and that is not something you have to change. Although reforms are a good thing, sometimes we can just leave things as they are, but say that some form of equality principle is, after all, the most sensible and transparent principle to apply.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201175748	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201175751	I tried to get an answer earlier today, and now I'm trying again. The draft law states that it is important that the level of benefits does not determine the choice of school or educational courses for young people. How can this be part of the legal framework, since young people cannot choose to go to production school, for example, but must be searched for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201175812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201175813	In other words, there I have just understood that although it is true that there is a visitation, the young person also has some sort of influence on it and can say yes and no, and that does not mean that it also has a role to play. It's not like you're being forced in.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201175828	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201175830	Yes, but it cannot be said that it determines the young person's choice, because the young person cannot choose, but in a conversation one can hope to help draw a decision in a particular direction. But I have to say that the starting point of the law is simply a falsum. But I would now like to ask the rapporteur something else, because it is quite often that we get a talk from the Liberal Alliance that if you do something economically attractive somewhere, there will be more activity or attract people, or whatever it may be, and that if you turn something down, there will be less. It is often the Liberal Alliance's tax rapporteur who gives us a review of this logic. So what will happen if something worse is done in the production schools? How many fewer students will there be?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201175911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201175913	I simply dare not guess that, but what comes here is a form of neutrality when you look at different educational opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201175923	Well, then I'll say thank you to Mr. Knox. Henrik Dahl. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201175935	Thank you. The more you listen to this debate, the more I think it is, at least, as if we are talking about a comparison of pears and bananas or apples and bananas for that matter. It's not the same thing. Now we have heard that the rapporteurs of the parties supporting this proposal have repeated themselves by saying that this is harmonisation, because there is no reason why there is a difference in the amount that you get, for example. goes to high school, and when you go to a production school. There is a world of difference, and so must there be. That is why we have invented some courses, some preparatory courses, which are different from what exists when you, for example, are invented. continues directly from primary school in high school. You work, you produce something, it is a job, you are entitled to five weeks' leave, like an ordinary worker, an ordinary adult worker in the labour market who has his training and has completed his training. You cannot take a leisure job after work in the same way, because you are only late. When you have 5 weeks holiday in the summer, you may not be able to say, like the high school students, that I work 11⁄2 months during the summer holiday and earn up to the next year. There are widely differing conditions for pupils attending production schools compared with those which, for example, are: goes to high school and the other upper secondary schools. There's also a big difference in the background from which these students come. We all know that. These are students who typically have some challenges with them from home, where there is a reason why we shouldn't go in and hit them in the head by saying: You shouldn't get very much in pay. Because there are some parents who may not have that much opportunity to help these students, either financially or socially. So it is no coincidence that there is a difference today. It is historic, yes, but it is no coincidence that at the time a model has been invented where there really is a difference in the amount you get when you go to a youth education and when you go to a production school. I simply think that this is a bad argument and I think that we must do better. Then the parties that are in favour of this bill must argue better for it. It is fair enough that you have had to land a budget law, but then that must be the main argument. I simply do not think the other is fair, because it is not the same. We cannot say that it is the same as going to a production school as going to a youth education. Then I can be a little indignant in my place when I keep hearing more rapporteurs pay tribute to the diversity of our society, given that we have this opportunity to send our young people to a production school if they find it difficult to meet the demands of, for example, a production school. to go to high school or vocational school, while at the same time going in and cutting the benefits. That is simply not right. If we pay tribute to the good we have, we must also stick to some of what is doing well, and it is, for example, that they are actually getting a salary for which they can live. I would very much like to call on the government, in line with both the Enhedslisten's rapporteur and the Social Democrats' rapporteur, to suspend this bill and wait for the outcome of the committee which is going to sit and look at the whole preparatory area. Wait until we have the result, and then let us enter into a dialogue, in relation to whether something needs to be adjusted. Then we would very much like to take part in the debate on the alternative, but we think it would be a pity if we did not wait for the outcome of the committee's work. It is good political style when you have set in motion a committee of your own that you wait for the results of it before taking decisions that have enormous consequences for some young people out there in our society. So the alternative cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201180337	Thank you to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201180350	Thank you. Give hope, cultivate dreams, open doors. That's what education can do, and that's what education should be able to do. And for many young people, there is not a straight way to meet opposition, they may get knocked out of it, and they must have an extra chance. That chance could be our production schools. They are doing a great job, and many of the young people who attend the production schools come from homes without much training and perhaps without much money. And now the government will take a large part of the salary from the young. I think that is wrong. It does not make sense, as we have also heard today, to compare with the SU, as the government does. Because at a production school you work there you work a full week and have 5 weeks' holiday. You can't just do some extracurricular work next door, and you can't just borrow as you can when you're at SU. Besides, it is not the same amount at all. If you were finally to do what the government thinks, that is to say that you were wondering where you could get the most, you would get more from being ready for activity in the job centre than going to a production school. Is that really what the government thinks young people should do? I don't think so. I think young people should go to production school. They must have the success, it is, to master new things and be motivated and liked to go to school again and get ready to take an education. That is why we in the Radical Left are opposed to this proposal. We think it is wrong that the government will cut the wages of some of the young people who need it most and for what? For cheap cars and cheap housing. Honestly, how small can it be? So I would like to say hello from Oliver and the 5,000 other young people who have been in the Palace Square today and say: Work must pay off. Don't cut back on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201180631	Thank you very much to Mrs Lotte Rod. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201180642	It was just as the glasses blurted and the eyes became shiny when the Prime Minister earlier today provoked mental movement in several of us when he talked warmly about the young people who are having difficulties in completing an education. Yes, the glasses blurted, and the eyes became shiny, though mostly when it was that the Prime Minister again highlighted his own merits through his private fund. The double standard here later in the day is quite clear. I'm gonna have to promise that we're on the ground again. Now they are blowing icy bourgeois winds against the production schools... those schools that are so capable of lifting young people, revitalizing them, giving them hope and believing that they can of course learn again. The harsh reduction in school attendance will certainly lead to fewer pupils. Is that what we want? Does Denmark really need more on transfer income, more unskilled? This bill is an attack on the DNA itself in the production schools, which is based on work-like conditions. Harmonisation is a manipulative word, because in a number of areas it is nonsense to claim that there should be harmonisation. Many young people can go straight from primary school and beyond, and it's nice, but there are other young people who have to go around a few detours, and it's the young people who got the least of them in the school bag from primary school. It is young people who so much need an extra pat on the shoulder and a helping hand. Of all the bad ideas that the right wing in Denmark has come up with, this is one of the worst things, and that really does not say very little. This bill is antisocial, and it hits precisely those young people who should have a helping hand instead, because society is in debt to them by not getting enough profit from school. The bill will hit the individual young people, the bill will eventually hit those companies that will not be able to get the skilled workforce that will be needed, the bill will hit the society that will be left with the bill. The bill is stupid with stupid on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201180933	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. The last of this round is the Minister of Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201180946	Thank you very much. The production schools are doing a good and important job of preparing young people for youth education or work. There are a lot of young people who over the years have got hope back, raised their backs and got color in their cheeks after a course at a production school. This does not mean that we cannot change in the production schools or in the benefits that young people receive so that there is a balance between that benefit and other benefits in other courses. The reason for the bill to change the level of school provision is partly that we consider it reasonable, on the one hand, to avoid adverse negative incentives for young people in the production schools to embark on a youth education programme. I think it is reasonable to expect that young people in production school courses can complete their school courses with the same benefit or equivalent as pupils in upper secondary education or similar preparatory offers, such as the combined youth education. Students in the combined upper secondary education are similar to those in production schools. The production school pupils are primarily pupils in a school programme and they are not workers in an ordinary labour market, and so I think it is reasonable that they should receive a benefit equivalent to the benefit their friends receive from the combined youth education, vocational training or the like. Among other things: In the light of the views expressed in the consultation round, the draft law has been amended in such a way that school grants continue to be granted to pupils under 18 years of age. Thus, the production schools can continue to use the school services as educational tools, also for young people under 18 years of age. In addition, the draft law should be seen in the light of the paradoxical situation today that pupils are experiencing lower benefits by interrupting a production school to start a competence-giving youth education and it is difficult to explain to young production school pupils why they should lose money by further training. I think that basically is an unfortunately negative incentive to embark on youth education, such as vocational training. It is a pity if a difference in the level of benefits makes the transition to a vocational training less attractive and more interesting to postpone. In conclusion, I would just like to stress that the draft law is neither a dispute with the idea of the production school nor a conflict with the objectives of the production school. The production school is, and must remain, a strong preparatory offer for young people who have a special need to be further dressed to start youth education or participate in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201181220	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201181224	Thank you. I think this is crazy. I think it is small change that is being saved in the big game, but it will have major consequences for the individual production school pupil. Today we heard as Mr. Karsten Hønge said the Prime Minister made his statement, and he said that more should have the chance to get over the edge. I totally agree that more people should be given the chance, but doesn't this bill quite the opposite? Where you help people who are on the edge is then at the production schools. Is it not completely contrary to getting over the edge to reduce the benefit?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201181302	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201181304	I think it is quite reasonable that the services between the various educational services aimed at this type of young person are at a comparable level. I think it's violent to call it galimatias. We still have a society that is so rich that we can actually provide a service to young people who are in education, and we should be happy about that. And the reason we can do that is that we have been a growing society for many years, and we must remain so. So we need to have such a balance between those who pay and those who get, and we also need to have healthy balances within the benefits, so that there are no wrong incentives. This particular bill corrects an imbalance in incentives, which may be able to keep some young people in youth education who do not qualify for the labour market as much as they do for example. vocational training. I think it would be wrong to keep young people there for the wrong reasons. So I think it's very common sense to make this adjustment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201181409	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201181410	Thank you. The Prime Minister then went on to say that it is absolutely crucial for the rest of your life that you get that push over the edge. I would like to ask the Minister whether she does not think it is essential for many production school pupils that they receive good schooling at the production schools with the allowance which is worthy of being allowed, for example. lunch money and in relation to being able to be paid out if you are absent. So does the Minister share the view of the Prime Minister, namely that it is absolutely vital for the rest of your life whether you get well beyond the edge and that the production schools make you get there?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201181455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201181456	I find it extremely strange that it is said that services in other similar courses should have an unworthy level. I don't see that at all. I think it is important that the services are designed in such a way that there is a positive incentive to choose a training which is competence-giving and which leads to work. And if there is a negative incentive, it could be a problem for young people, and that should also be taken into account in the social democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201181523	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201181527	Thank you. Now the SU is calculated to the youngest at least in part according to their parents' income. I do not know all the production schools, but I know the production schools in the West, and I would like to put my head on the block and say that this applies to the vast majority of the pupils who go there, that if they started at a high school, their parents' income would mean that they would get the high SU rate. For a • now I just need to get the figures out • resident aged 18-19 that means that he or she in SU next year would get DKK 2,561. Today they would receive 3,856 DKK in the production school allowance, but according to the government's bill they will get 1,516 DKK. less than in SU. This is because what the government has agreed in the Finance Act is that the production school allowance should be calculated on the basis of a relatively high parent income. So there is nothing like harmonisation. They would actually lose 1,000 kroner. by starting a production school and getting 1,000 DKK if they join the vocational school or in high school, even if they are not ready to start there. This is not anything like harmonisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201181639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201181640	We can discuss language, but the important thing here is that there is no negative incentive for these young people. After all, all the young people who can take a qualification must do so. And I think the rapporteur agrees with me on that. Vocational schools are really where something is happening to young people. We must ensure that the framework there becomes even more attractive and interesting for young people and that young people who are perhaps challenged in terms of education, who have some problems, can also receive vocational training. We should not put all sorts of obstacles in their way, nor should we give them the wrong incentives to move on to vocational training. That is what concerns me.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201181724	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201181725	Thank you. I'm not talking language. For my sake, people must have the language they want, I'm talking about numbers, raw numbers. And I can only say that there is nothing like harmonisation here. So if the government believes that harmonisation is needed, why has the government not put forward a legislative proposal that really harmonises it so that it is calculated according to the pupils' parents' income, just as the SU does, where you get something extra, if you have children, where you can get supplements, if you are disabled, where you have access to the SU loan? Why is there not that harmonisation when the legislative proposal itself is called harmonisation?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201181803	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201181804	That is why I addressed the language, because I do not have any particularly warm feelings for the word harmonisation. I can only note that it is important to create levels of performance where there is no negative incentive in terms of entering qualification. Nor do I think that it is in itself an objective to provide services which are extremely complicated. We have a high complexity in our services, and I do not think that is an end in itself. So what we have tried to do here is to reduce the negative incentives that may be in relation to moving forward in a qualification-giving training.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201181844	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201181846	Now the Minister simply has to withdraw this bill. If the Minister himself stands on the platform now and says that the word 'harmonization' does not mean anything, so that we can take it out as well, then I can read out the sentence: we want to harmonize school provision in the production schools. But then I understand that sentence needs to be deleted. And now I can hear what the Minister will say to the next one, because I assume that this will also be the case: it is important that the level of benefits does not determine the choice of school or educational courses for young people. Neither can they, because it takes a search. So we have two sentences that start this bill, both of which are a falsum. When does the Minister withdraw the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201181917	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201181917-2	No, that's not what I said. It is important, as I said earlier, that there is no negative incentive, and that is the important thing in this bill. For, of course, young people also have an impact on what education they are going on, and fortunately for that. The young people are not the chess pieces the system has to move around on. And that is also why there must be good schools, there must be good education, and then there must be some services that do not create a negative incentive in relation to not choosing or not moving forward in a qualification-giving course. That is what we are addressing here, and I think that is very sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201181958	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201182000	Parliament has had to listen several times to various representatives of the Liberal Alliance, who have apparently felt called to give Parliament a lesson in economics too often, I must say. But if we start from the fact that this is just one of the things that the Liberal Alliance likes to teach the rest of the Danish Parliament about, i.e. how it works in such an economic way, when you turn something up, it attracts activity, and if you turn something down, then it will be smaller, if the logic that we have so often had to listen to in the Parliament hall holds true, how many fewer pupils does this mean for the production schools? Because otherwise it doesn't make any sense. If the second logic fails, can I understand it, but if it holds, how many fewer pupils are there in the schools in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201182044	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201182045	It is hard to say how the number will develop. It is constantly evolving, and the benefits are not the only ones that have an influence. But if there is a little less for the reason that more young people are going to go straight in and start vocational training, then that is a good thing, and I shall be delighted about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201182104	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201182106	This follows on from the answer given to Mr. Mattias Tesfaye. How did the government get to that level? What is the parenthood income that has been taken as a starting point?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201182120	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201182121	The assessment has been made that the benefits must be comparable and then a level has been established. There you haven't taken these levels of complexity into account, but you've done a comparable level. I think that is quite reasonable. Then one can argue that the system of benefits must be even more complex. I do not think that is an end in itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201182142	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201182143	The minister says it has to be comparable. But if it turns out that the level set by the government here is not comparable, but that it should actually be a different level, because there is another parent background for pupils at a production school, would the Minister be willing to look at it and, with us, perhaps find a solution so that it is actually comparable?
ParlaMint-DK_20161201182207	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201182208	I think that the whole premise that is being raised here is that it is extremely damaging for young people to reduce this benefit, but I would like to challenge that premise, because it is really important that there is no negative incentive to move on to vocational training and to start training for qualifications. So there is a reasonable point of view in this, but there is, of course, also an incentive consideration which makes it sensible to make a comparable level. Then it is not quite the same systems; it is quite right. You have made an assessment of where the level is good, and that is what you have taken. This means that it is not entirely equivalent mechanisms and services, and it also means that the complexity is not the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201182259	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201182319	The debate is open. And the first rapporteur is Mrs Annette Lind from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201182346	Thank you. This is my first draft law as rapporteur with the new minister, which is why, of course, I would also like to welcome the Minister in this Chamber. This bill will set a ceiling for how many weeks a post-secondary school can receive state grants for per year. the student, and correspondingly a ceiling for how many weeks a student can receive state student support to reduce the student fee. The Social Democratic Party believes that it makes good sense to have such a ceiling, among other things. In view of the fact that in recent years the post-school period has increased in many places. During the last year of school, 19 per cent had been in school. of the post-school students after-school courses of 43 weeks or more. So a ceiling makes sense. When the government proposed in its draft Finance Act a ceiling of 41 weeks, applicable from next school year, combined with the re-priority contribution of 2%. As you know, it was our assessment that a ceiling of 41 weeks would hit the post-schools too hard. For us, the post-schools are a good alternative in the Danish education system. Afterschools can something very special when it comes to the general human education that is so important to all of us, including the ability to enter into relationships with other people and be part of a community. We have therefore wanted a slightly higher ceiling and/or a slower phasing-in than the one originally proposed by the government. The post-school association itself has constructively proposed a ceiling of 42 weeks, and that is also what this bill is all about. I think it is a good thing that the post-schools themselves and also the opposition here in the Folketing have been listened to. That is why, of course, we support a ceiling of 42 weeks and hence also the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201182546	Thank you. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201182556	Thank you. This bill is, of course, part of the Finance Act and, in this context, of course, revenue must also be collected. In the government's original draft Finance Act, a limit of 41 weeks was set for the post-schools. The reason for the proposal is the increase in long-term post-school stays of 43 weeks or more. It was 10%. of the students in 2010-2011, rising to 19 per cent. in 2015-2016. In connection with the process, we could well have planned in DF a longer phase-in to have a calm transition to the fewer weeks for the schools that have had many weeks. On the other hand, we would also be sorry if we had to go down to the 41 weeks which were the government's proposals. I am very pleased that we have ended up in 42 weeks, which is also what the post-schools themselves have said actually makes very good sense. In this context, I can only welcome it and say that the schools will have to face the challenge of getting started next summer with this. But then we get a really good level in the future. The Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201182709	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201182718	Thank you, sir. President. With L 88, which is, of course, a proposal to amend the law on post-schools and free vocational schools, and which we are dealing with now and here, we go in and set a ceiling on the number of training weeks which the State grants to post-schools. In the public schools it is actually usually the case that you have about 40 weeks of education. And with this bill, we're gonna go in and set a ceiling in proportion to the maximum. State grants are granted to 42 weeks in the post-schools. In addition, it is important for me to stress that this does not prevent afterschools from being able to choose to continue to have perhaps 43 or 44 weeks of school. It is up to the individual school itself, but, as I said, you want to do maximum. receive a State grant of 42 weeks. L 88 is part of the Finance Act. I have to say that I really think that setting a ceiling means that we also ensure that things do not run out of hand in relation to the state subsidy we give to the post-schools. In fact, in recent years there has been a tendency for more and more post-schools to increase the number of weeks of education, and this has actually resulted in both increased costs for the Treasury and indeed for parents. This has not led to more young people enjoying post-school periods, and I therefore hope that this ceiling will now help to ensure that perhaps even more young people can be allowed and have the opportunity to have a post-school stay. Those of us who have had children of our own at school after school know very well that a stay that is extremely beneficial for young people, and I therefore hope that, as I said, this bill will also help to give more people the opportunity. This is an amazing experience, and I know that many young people will enjoy a stay at a post-school. The Left, of course, will vote in favour of the bill, and once again I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they will also vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201182945	Thank you for that, Mrs Anni Matthiesen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201182955	In the Enhedslisten we welcome the fact that the government has listened to the critical voices that have been against the government's original proposal to introduce a ceiling of 41 course weeks when calculating the annual grant to the post-schools. It has been clearly described in several consultation responses that this would have very major consequences for the economy of schools, not least in a situation where post-schools are also hit hard economically by the re-priority contribution. We have also noted that the Afterschool Association has pointed out that a ceiling of 42 course weeks will provide an economic basis to ensure a reasonable educational framework for schools, and that both the Afterschool Association and the Free School Teacher Association point to the 42 weeks as an acceptable solution model. Against this background, the Enhedslisten can support the Government's proposal for a weekly ceiling, but at the same time we think it would be right to respond to the call made by both the Afterschool Association and the teachers' organisations to phase out the ceiling gradually, given that the proposal before us has been put forward at a very late stage and that it may be difficult for schools to set the economy at a sufficient pace if the draft law is to come into force as from the next budgetary year. We will make proposals on this in the further process, but we support the proposal that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201183133	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201183142	The Liberal Alliance has the official view that we are fond of post-schools. It's not always one hundred percent agree with everything in one's party program, but I am in this case. Two of my three children approached me and their mother voluntarily and said they wanted to go to post-school, and they had a fantastic stay there. It is Danish school tradition, at its best, with commitment, involvement of teachers and an experience for life. So it's really good that they exist. They're doing an incredibly good job. Students can pursue their particular interests and have incredible human experiences. The economy must, of course, be linked, and sometimes you can be strangled in success, because there are some financial resources involved. Here we get things regulated in a sensible way with this bill. Then I also note that the working people's government actually works. When you come up with reasonable objections that 42 weeks is better than 41 weeks, then you listen, it gets set up, and that's really good. So we support the bill without having any further comments on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201183301	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. And we welcome Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201183310	Thank you. I will almost repeat what the previous rapporteurs have said. After all, in the alternative, we are very, very pleased with the post-schools and the importance that the post-schools have for our children and society at all. Now we are often standing here on the platform and yelling at us, because perhaps, as an opposition, at least most of us do not agree with the government's bill. It is therefore extremely nice sometimes to be able to stand up here and be friendly or at least agree, but also to be able to congratulate the political work of our Parliament when, as it is in this particular case, it actually becomes a sign of fruitful cooperation. After all, we had the situation referred to by the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance that the government had set up up to 41 weeks. We have asked ministers questions which have been called for consultation and there have been some very sensible discussions between the former minister and us who wanted us to be able to comply with this request from the Afterschool Association in the 42 weeks' time. So it is immensely pleasing and surprising, but in the good way that one finds out that this wish has been met in this way. And I hope we get much more of that in Danish politics in general across all wings. So for that reason we thank the Minister and thank the government for listening. And, of course, we support the Alternative Bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201183434	Thank you to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. And welcome to Mrs Lotte Rod from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201183441	Thank you. Afterschools are a great form of school because you can do something special when you're together, living together and making friendships and communities for your whole life. And afterschools can make students grow, believe in themselves, trust each other and society. That is why we want many young people to have the opportunity to attend post-school. That is why we were very concerned about the government's first move. But we think that the post-schools have helped to find a sensible solution, which does not change the number of pupils who can attend post-school. That is why I should like to welcome Mrs Jelved and say that we in the Radical Left support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201183532	Thank you for that, and thank you for your regards. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201183542	It is good that we in this country have many educational opportunities for young people. We talked about production schools before, and now we're discussing afterschools. It is offers that lift the young, challenge them and give them vision. In the SF we are strong supporters of the post-schools, and we believe that there should be more of them. Afterschools give young people new experiences. They equip them professionally for further education. They challenge young people's attitudes and opinions, give them new acquaintances, and teach them freedom and freedom. We wish all young people who wanted to go to a post-school. In fact, I think everyone could benefit from that. That is why we also want to ensure that the post-schools have as good conditions as possible. We have asked the former minister to discuss post-school legislation because we want to give a better framework for running school. We hope that the new minister is also prepared to do so. Then we had the former minister in consultation on this bill, because it was originally intended that a ceiling would be set on the number of weeks of training for which the post-schools could receive grants and that the ceiling would be 41 weeks. Both SF, the Afterschool Association and many others were worried about a ceiling of 41 weeks. The public schools have 40 weeks, but in the post-schools the pupils also have more things to do. The students must both be able to settle in the post-schools and get to know each other; there are several types of subjects and activities; and then the post-schools must also equip them for examinations and further training. The post-school students are therefore busy and it is therefore good to have a ceiling of 42 weeks and not the 41 weeks that the government otherwise set up. The 42 weeks are also the compromise proposals of the Afterschool Association, because a ceiling also ensures that the post-schools have the same conditions to run school on, and ensures that the price of a post-school does not just increase and increase because the pupils have to pay for more and more weeks. In this way it could be difficult for some families to send their young ones to school after school. We're glad the government has listened to this bill, and we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201183759	Thank you. And then we come to the Minister of Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201183809	Thank you for the positive spirit in which this bill has been debated. It is fantastic to note that we can sometimes find cases that bring together almost all parties. In this case, it is the love of a school form, namely the post-schools, which are part of our democratic tradition in Denmark, and which help to give a great many young people both knowledge and education and the first infancy of managing on their own without mother and father. With L 88, we propose, in concrete terms, that an upper limit of 42 weeks should be introduced for the number of weeks of training on a post-school basis during which a pupil can be included in the calculation of the annual number of students in the case of State grants, including individual student grants. No change shall be made to the grant granted to the post-schools or to the annual assessment of the grants. The draft law does not prevent a post-school from organising courses with a longer duration than 42 weeks, but the part of the course beyond the 42 weeks will not be included in the school's grant calculation. Since the proposal limits only the size of the State grant to the schools for each pupil, it is not considered that the upper limit of 42 weeks will lead to a reduction in the number of pupils in the post-schools. The draft law does not imply changes in the legal conditions under which a school's activities are governed by the law. Finally, I would like to thank my predecessor, the current Minister for Health, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, for the consideration of this bill and for the fine solution, I think, as has been achieved and which seems to be fair and good and well received out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201184001	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the Minister, so we thank him. As no one else has asked to speak on this proposal, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be transferred to the Committee on Children's and Education. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201184024	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mrs Annette Lind from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201184054	Yeah, that's right. One of the most important prerequisites for doing well in Denmark is to master the Danish language. This is the prerequisite for us to be able to be in dialogue with each other and for the individual to be able to take part in the community and gain a foothold in the labour market. Therefore, we must do all we can to give the bilingual Danes the very best opportunities to learn Danish as well as possible and to have a good life in Denmark. This bill is precisely about making the good experiences of preparatory adult education targeted bilingual permanent and thus to the delight of even more. The experiment has shown good results. The participants' Danish knowledge has been strengthened, and so are their opportunities to take an education. Bilingual adults are a special target group that needs special help and a targeted offer. It is therefore also positive that this proposal will not only introduce a new subject into preparatory adult education, but will also make it possible to provide teaching especially for bilingual ones. This means a more targeted and effective offer to this particular group. Being bilingual can be a great gain and a strength if you really master both your languages. We need to be better at ensuring this in Denmark, and with this proposal we are one step further in the right direction. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party can support L 89.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201184220	Yeah, that's right. It's L 89 we're working on at the moment. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201184229	Thank you. This is a small and excellent proposal which, as the previous rapporteur has explained, is of course about continuing the FVU offer on preparatory adult education organised for bilinguals, which has been running as an experiment for 3 years from 2014 to 2016. There are good experiences which indicate that it is used as a supplement to other Danish teachings, and it also points out that there is a desire to learn Danish in these bilingual groups, and that is quite pleasing. It has also emerged that supplementary training has improved the participation of the target group in further training. So summa summarum I can just say that this is a proposal that we can support and which, indeed, is quite excellent. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201184314	We'll also thank you from here. The next is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201184317	Thank you. As the previous rapporteurs have also explained so well, this is really about making an attempt on preparatory adult education for bilingual permanent. I am, of course, very pleased that we have put this in place. It is an experiment that has been running from 2014 until 2016 and that has shown that the target group's participation in further training is strengthened according to these schemes. So, in order not to make it a long speech, I would like to say that this is one of the things that we naturally support and will vote in favour of. Once again, a message from the Conservatives, which also supports this bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201184411	You're welcome. The next is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201184418	The three previous speakers have now explained the content and background of the proposal. I will not repeat that, but I would say that we in the Enhedslist think it is a good proposal. It will meet the needs of a group of bilinguals who lack the prerequisites for starting preparatory adult education, and it also recognises that the teaching of this group is a different task from the ordinary general FVU education. We have also noted that the proposal is made on the basis of recommendations from the Adult and Continuing Education Council, and when you read through the consultation answers, you can see that there is very broad support for permanentisation, which is what we are talking about here. However, I would like to mention one thing which I think we should consider in the further work of the committee. The oral test, the FVU-start contained in the proposal, involves an internal test, and several of the consultation responses point out that it is a problem that a test without external censorship is being set up because the censorship can help to ensure quality and to develop the professional level of training. I think that is a real consideration. Both the FTF and the Education Association consider that a central censor corps of 4-5 people will be able to solve the task. There is, of course, a very limited cost, and I think it should be worth considering for the Minister and for us in the committee work, if it is not true that the type of quality assurance proposed by changing the test form so that external censorship becomes part of the proposal. But otherwise, in general, we think it is an excellent proposal and we will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201184628	Thank you. Then we welcome Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201184636	Many things have already been said to praise L 89, and I fully agree with them. We support the fact that the experimental system of preparatory adult education is being made permanent so that bilingual people who do not have the necessary skills can have them in the future. That is why, of course, we also support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201184706	Thank you. It was short and precise. We welcome the next rapporteur, Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201184713	Thank you. I am not going to repeat the good words of the previous rapporteurs on this draft law, but just mention that on the alternative side we also support the draft law. Then I would like to put two perspectives on that. We are often going to deal with legislative proposals from a perspective that only looks at the individual legislative proposal, but earlier today we were dealing with a motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party in this Chamber, so I would like to make a little fuss about it, because it was precisely about imposing a ban on special consideration for minorities in public institutions. And when you look at this bill, which we think is quite reasonable and which the Danish People's Party has just said they support, it is also an example of a special concern for minorities, namely bilingual Danes. So sometimes we might just have to keep an eye on the big perspective and get a little up to helicopter height. I would also like to say this in relation to the legislative proposal we were discussing just now, namely that on the production schools and the production school service, because this is precisely an example of an evaluation of an area and, in the light of that evaluation, of a legislative proposal. And it would be so good, following on from the discussion we had during the previous draft law on the production school service, that we repeated that exercise and said: let us wait for the committee work and, based on the evaluation that comes from it, we can then try to see how we could possibly make some legislative changes there. So it is basically just to praise the approach set out in L 89. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201184855	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201184903	Thank you. It is important that you know Danish when you live in Denmark. Up to now, bilinguals have gone on ordinary preparatory adult education, and it got back in 2013 from the Adult and Continuing Education Council to recommend that we make trials with educational offers, which were particularly targeted by bilinguals. In 2014, 2015 and 2016, we have set aside money for experiments, partly with an adjustment of the existing subject FVU-reading to bilingual, partly with a new oral subject FVU-start to those foreigners who are no longer entitled to Danish education for adults, but who have too bad a Danish to benefit from existing FVU-subjects or labour market education. The evaluation of these experiments shows that the offers have mainly been for the benefit of foreigners who come from non-EU countries and who have been in Denmark for a long time, so some of those that we might otherwise risk losing on the floor. Seven out of ten participants at the FVU start will be so good at Danish that they will subsequently be able to complete a regular FVU run. And that's about the same share that handles FVU reading. It's really hard to learn Danish, and in that light seven out of ten are good, but vice versa I also feel that it hurts inside me to know that three out of ten aren't gonna make it. And that is why I would like us to make every effort to help even more people and to succeed in doing so. So, when the Adult and Continuing Education Council recommends that we continue and persevere with the experiments, we would, of course, like to support them radically. That is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201185104	Thank you. We welcome Mr. Karsten Hønge from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201185116	It is important that we do everything we can to make our fellow citizens learn Danish quickly. It strengthens their prerequisites for being part of the community, and in order for this to happen, we must ensure that there are good educational opportunities that can help people get started and lift those who still need it. The background of the draft law is a recommendation from the Adult and Continuing Education Council on the establishment of a framework for preparing adult education for bilinguals. The FVD experiment has been carried out and the experiment has been continuously evaluated and has been shown to strengthen the participation of the target group in continuing training. Both the Association of Leaders at the Danish Schools and the Danish Language Centres support the bill, as does the SF. We believe that it is absolutely essential that we have some offers that can help bilinguals to strengthen their reading and spelling skills and that can help them to commit themselves in society. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201185217	Thank you. Then the trip has come to the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201185223	Thank you very much for the broad support for this draft law, which perseveres in a very sensible system, namely the FVU, which is aimed at a bilingual target group. Studies on this teaching have been carried out since 2014 and the trials were recommended by the Adult and Continuing Education Council. After all, the evaluation has shown that the experiment strengthened the participation of the target group in further training, and that is why it is so good and sensible to continue doing so. Preparatory adult education is the offer most people use with foreign origin, in addition to Danish education. The draft law consists of two elements: firstly, the creation of a new bilingual subject in oral dissemination and production, the FVU-start, aimed at both further FVU-training and participation in labour market courses; and secondly, the possibility of organising the teaching of FVU-reading only with bilingual participants. After the experiment it was a requirement that the participants were no longer entitled to Danish education to foreigners, and this restriction has been removed, which should be seen in the light of the government's policy of faster employment for bilingual adults. This relaxation will make the FVU subjects equivalent in terms of access conditions, and the great flexibility that is the strength of the FVU offer will be maintained. So much for the constructive discussion today. I look forward to any questions that may be raised during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201185402	Thank you. There are no comments on the Minister of Education. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. If none of you object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161201185423	Then I would like to conclude by thanking everyone for their work today in the service of the people's regime. There's nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 2 December 2016, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
