ParlaMint-DK_20161214090018	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Troel Lund Poulsen): Bill no. L 97 (Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Active Employment and the Law on Unemployment Insurance, etc.) Transport, Building and Housing Minister (Ole Birk Olesen): Bill no. L 98 (Proposal for a law on the construction of Haderup omfartsvej). Minister for Finance (Kristian Jensen): Bill No. L 100 (Proposal for a law amending the law on remuneration, pensions, etc.) for ministers. Tax Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill No. L 101 (Proposal for a Law amending the Personal Tax Act and the Law on Tax-Free Compensation for Increases in Energy and Environmental Taxes). Bill No. L 102 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Recovery of Public Debts, Law on the Procedure for the Recovery of Taxation, etc.) and the Law on Municipal Property Tax. Bill No. L 103 (Proposal for a Law amending the Personal Tax Act and the Corporate Tax Act. Bill No. L 104 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Municipal Property Tax and the Law on Municipal Equalisation and General Grants to Municipalities. Minister for Justice (Søren Pape Poulsen): Bill No. L 105 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Jurisdiction, Enforcement of Punishment, etc.) and the law on electronic communications networks and services. Søren Gade (V), Henrik Sass Larsen (S), Leif Mikkelsen (LA), Morten Østergaard (RV) and Mette Abildgaard (KF): Bill no. L 106 (Proposal for a law amending the Act on the election of the Folketing. Martin Henriksen (DF) and others: Question No. F 21 (How does the government feel about more people living in Brøndby Strand with an immigrant background than with a Danish background, giving rise to new initiatives to stop the violent immigration?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20161214090206	Outside the supplementary report, Amendment No No was tabled by the Minister for Finance on 8 December 2016. 458-522. For the sake of fairness, I would point out that the following amendments, which appear in the supplementary report, have been withdrawn. It is a question of Amendment No 1. 26, 36, 80, 101, 119, 213, 214, 278, 279 and 425-428. They have therefore lapsed. Then the debate is open, and it is first Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214090303	Thank you, President. We are now embarking on the first part of the third reading of the Finance Act for 2017. Amazingly much has changed in Danish politics since we started this journey at the end of August. There is another government, another Minister for Finance, and according to the Minister for Foreign Affairs there has been virtually parliamentary elections. But there is something that has not changed since then: the social democracy is still standing where we have always stood, ready to negotiate with the government in office at any time, as long as it is ready for constructive, broadly based solutions to the real problems that Denmark has • if we are invited. Another thing hasn't changed either. In the other world, in government offices, there is still a government that is primarily concerned with making big plans, plans that are virtually never going to be anything other than the paper on which they are written. Like the ice queen in the fairy tale, the government almost every day holds up a mirror in front of itself and asks: Who has the most beautiful plan in this country? And plans have certainly been enough to satisfy even the most vain ice queen. But words on paper will never be anything but the free imagination of fairy tales if there is no majority for them. The previous government and the current one would like to ease the marginal tax. There just isn't a majority for that. The previous government and the present one would like to force worn Danes to stay longer on the labour market, but there is no majority for that either. Every time the government is so told that it does not have a majority in the Folketing for its plans, it strikes out with its arms and criticises everyone else for not having a plan. It's not a fairy tale, it's not really a bad dream either. Unfortunately, it is the honest reality, and the mirror only shows the government what it wants to see. How good it would be if you woke up to the deed of your thorn rose sleep and looked reality in the eye. It is also noteworthy that the Prime Minister in his first opening speech in this assembly quoted Viggo Kampmann's election slogan: "Make good times better'. I would like to take this opportunity to remind the government of a quote from Kampmann's predecessor, H.C. Hansen. He once said that we have achieved our position and progress by always preferring results to resolutions. My silent advice to the government must be to start listening more to the majority of the Folketing than to its own liberalist government base. For the second reading of next year's Finance Act, I stressed that it is now time to take the right and long-term decisions for Denmark. I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate today. We in the Social Democratic Party have been very clear about what we think is the right way for a future rich, fair and capable Denmark. We will invest in upgrading the workforce, implementing targeted growth measures and maintaining and developing our welfare societies. There is no doubt that we must continue to focus on increasing the growth that has otherwise been challenged and, as you can read in the economic statement just published, there will continue to be a focus point with the government's fifth downward adjustment of growth estimates in a row. In the future, there will be fewer unskilled jobs, more skilled jobs than we have at present. These are the challenges we have to solve if we are to make Denmark richer in the future We are very ambitious when it comes to pursuing a policy that will make Denmark richer, and therefore I also believe that we should take it seriously when several experts point out that there is a real risk of a loss of wealth if we do not ensure that the workforce is trained. Since we last dealt with the Finance Act, the Danish Growth Council has pointed out that we can risk a significant loss of wealth in the order of 85 billion. kr., if we do not get the manpower we are currently looking to lack in the coming years. This underlines precisely the social democracy's point that the government chooses a short-term path when it wants to finance top tax reliefs with reforms of our welfare community • reforms that are not needed. From the economic report which came slightly late, it can be understood that the government is proposing a so-called computational real growth in public consumption of 0.8%. in 2018. The Government's objective is real growth of 0.3 per cent and the remaining economic space, i.e. About 2.5 billion. kr., must go to e.g. tax relief. The government will therefore put the country in a position where the cost of maintaining the level of service in our day care, primary school, care for the elderly, etc. not follow the development of the population with more elderly and more children, but where the government will instead give priority to granting tax relief to those who already have the most. We do not think this is the right way for Denmark. When it comes to the financial law agreement that has been concluded by a narrow majority, I would like to highlight two things. Firstly, I am sorry that the opposition parties have not even been invited to discuss the draft budget, but that once again the government has chosen a narrow blue lead rather than broad cooperation in the Folketing. We are not in favour of block politics, and I believe that broad agreements serve both Danes and Danish companies best. Secondly, I would like to stress that we are unfortunately left with a financial law which lacks growth initiatives and which does not address the problems we face in Denmark at all. There is a need for a growth reform that creates jobs and growth throughout the country. This is lacking in the Finance Act, and that is a pity, because this challenge must be tackled as quickly as possible by strengthening the framework conditions of companies and by upgrading much more than today, so that both companies and employees can cope with global competition. That is why we are also tabling amendments to allocate more funds for upgrading and strengthening health care. We must ensure that more unskilled people are trained so that they can meet future demand and remain part of the working community. This is the right way for Denmark both to ensure the individual safety and safety of employment and to make the right skills available to the companies in Denmark. We will cancel the housing job scheme and the government's proposed reductions in inheritance tax, which do not really contribute to increased growth and employment. And then it is a priority for us that the funds for implementing the cash aid ceiling and the integration grant do not go to the government's planned tax cuts. That is why we are proposing to create a pool for vulnerable citizens, improved integration and increased social mobility. In the near future, the rapporteurs of the government parties, as usual, will repeat their well-known questions to us in the Social Democrats, and so let me say now: no, we do not agree that there should be a great deal of tax relief in the current situation. We also share this analysis with, for example, the National Bank and the economic wise men. Let's keep some gunpowder dry. But rejecting that part of the government's basis is not the same as pursuing a barren opposition policy. We have stretched our hand to the government in terms of growth initiatives, and we have proposed an upgrading reform to boost unskilled people to become skilled, at a time when, according to the government's economic report, we are approaching full capacity utilisation in the labour market. So the next time the ice queens in the government look in the enchanted mirror and ask who has the most beautiful plan in this country, the mirror should fairly answer: there are so many plans, none of them are going to happen anyway. In conclusion, I would just like to congratulate the government and, in particular, the members of the Liberal Alliance and Conservatives of the government on their financial law, which increases public growth by 0.7 per cent, more than twice as much as the government's basis provides. Had the Social Democratic Party participated in the negotiations, that would not have been less, but the priorities would certainly have been different. On the basis of this, I should like to conclude by saying that the Social Democrats will vote in favour of the overall financial law and that, through our amendments, we will demonstrate how we would have prioritised if we had been given the opportunity to influence the course of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214091256	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214091300	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. Part of the speech was that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht regretted not being invited. When you're not invited, it's no shame to stay away. That's the way it is, and I think we've all tried that in the political world. But there are also some things in this Finance Act that actually need to be dealt with on the back of it. That is why I really would like to ask the rapporteur how the Social Democrats feel about the issue of profit principles. This is one of the things that we are discussing at the beginning of the new year, as the Finance Act says. Is that something that Social Democracy could see itself in? For then it could also be secured after a forthcoming election at some point. In other words, one must have stayed in Denmark for a certain period of time in order to be able to have access to the welfare benefits that we know today. Why is this important to the Danish People's Party? It is because we will then be able to safeguard the benefits we know today. After all, they are extremely under pressure, including from outside, so it is also a question of holding on to the welfare society that we know today in such a conservative way. We would like to know that tomorrow too. Is this something that the Social Democrats want to work positively on?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214091405	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214091406	In this context, as in all sorts of other contexts, social democracy is always willing to come to negotiations. It is also clear that if it is the case that we are being asked to join, then of course we also expect us to have an influence on the matters to be agreed. But, of course, if it was an invitation, we welcome it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214091426	Sir. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214091428	Now I may not be in a position to invite, but it is interesting to hear what the Social Democrats think about the issue. But there is another thing I would like to ask the rapporteur. He mentioned other things, which are also on the edge of the Finance Act. It is that the government in the new government base is barring that among other things. will allow the sale of holiday homes to foreigners. It is likely that negotiations will also be called for. That's interesting, too. The Danish People's Party is very clear. We think this is a bad proposal. For example, where does social democracy stand on this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214091456	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214091458	Social democracy is quite clear in that it is a bad proposal. In fact, it is already possible today to shop holiday homes if you as a foreigner have some sort of connection with Denmark. For example, it may be German citizens who are part of the Danish minority in Sydslesvig. It may be Norwegian and Swedish citizens who have family, know that kind of thing in Denmark. Therefore, relatively many derogations are granted. I do not remember the number in the head at this time, but the scheme is used relatively diligently. If you start to give it more money, we will end up in a situation where you have to give up completely the special EU rule. And if that EU rule is first repealed, it is irreversible.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214091547	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214091551	Thank you to the rapporteur for the report. When Mr. Benny Engelbrecht says that he has not been invited, I would say that it is not right, because there have been invitations; the Social Democracy was, I remember, over at the beginning too. But the challenge has been that we did not really have anything to negotiate on, apart from the initiative of the then Left Government, because there was nothing else. After all, there was no other proposal... there was no alternative from Mr. Benny Engelbrecht. So that's the answer to that, sir. Benny Engelbrecht asks if you are standing in front of the mirror and looking at which plan is the most beautiful in this country very simple. For it is then the Finance Agreement of the then Left Government and the current government, including the Danish People's Party. Because there are no other plans. It is the only one who is, and that is of course a little too bad, but that is the way it is. It's a fact. So you can say: why has it not been possible to gather together to make a financial act? Maybe because it's more clever not to mean anything and then just criticize others. I see that it has been brought together to table four separate amendments. Benny Engelbrecht referred to · and two together with SF. That's what it's become. That is why it is a little difficult to have to discuss up against social democracy when you do not mean anything independent. But if the Social Democratic Party then criticises us, one might have imagined that they had tabled some amendments, which is why I just have to ask: in relation to the tax cuts that are included, including in our financial law agreement, on registration fees and on the ground that they are due, why have we not tabled amendments to cancel them when we are fervently opposed to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214091705	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214091709	If sir... Jacob Jensen now had not been so busy looking in the mirror, would Mr. Jacob Jensen could have remembered that the then Prime Minister was also the current Prime Minister, but at that time another government was very clearly saying that the overall plan, the so-called overall plan, the so-called 2025 plan, was inextricably linked with a Finance Act for 2017. On the basis of that, because such a message came from the government, the Social Democratic Party said: Fair enough, then we go into that room and then we accept that this is the way the negotiating game should be. And then we come up with a negotiating proposal in relation to how we will negotiate the overall plan, i.e. the 2025 plan. Then what happened? Then the government realized that it probably didn't quite work out anyway, and then it ended up not letting the two things hang together at the very last moment, by the way. Sir. Jacob Jensen has also been present at one coffee meeting after another and we have really had a lot of coffee over there in the Ministry of Finance, but there has never been a real debate about the Finance Act before the time when they said: Now the two things are no longer connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214091824	Here you go, sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214091827	I'll admit that we had a lot of coffee, and it's not always good coffee that the Ministry of Finance has. Nevertheless, there were those discussions. Let me ask you something: when you cannot get such a detailed answer to what you really mean by the Social Democrats, and that is fair enough if you have the impression: sir. Benny Engelbrecht says in his speech that Social Democracy is very ambitious in terms of making Denmark richer. I find that interesting. That is the overall framework, but what is the level of ambition? For, of course, we have written in our government's basis what our level of ambition is. It is to make Denmark richer by 80 billion. kr. in the coming years with different approaches to the labour market and others. But what is the level of ambition of social democracy? Can we get a report on that today?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214091904	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214091908	I think it is very, very fresh to come here and say that there was nothing that could be taken as a starting point in the negotiations in the context of the Finance Act and the 2025 negotiations, when the former Minister of Finance, moreover, began to count on what the Social Democratic Party had put forward, moreover, were heavily manipulated calculations. Well, now the Left has to decide. Is it the case that we have to trust that we could count on the things we had put forward, or is it the case that it was not something we could count on? You can't have both opinions. Or maybe the Left can do it, by the way. Yeah, I'm sorry. I can see now that right there, the Left is actually able to have every conceivable attitude at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214091943	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214091951	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur, who was able to support several good elements: training, resistance to relaxing the inheritance tax, etc. I heard the rapporteur talking about the saving from the introduction of the ceiling on cash benefits being used for some kind of pool. I would like to hear a little more about this, but I would like to start by asking quite specifically: does this mean that the Social Democrats will vote against the excellent amendment tabled by the SF to abolish the ceiling on cash benefits? It is easy to finance it, because the money is not yet spent; it is put in some pool for some tax relief. So we just drop it... that's what the SF is proposing... and I think that's really good. Will the Social Democrats support that amendment?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214092031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214092035	The Socialist amendment is precisely about not using the reserve set aside from job reform 1 to make tax cuts, but rather about setting aside the pool to compensate those who will be affected by the ceiling on cash benefits, in other words, in particular children's families. This is an expression of what we would have agreed with the government in a negotiating room. We could see that it would probably be a little difficult to obtain a majority in order to roll back the cash aid ceiling to one of these, and that is why it is an expression of what we think would be achievable if we had otherwise been allowed into the negotiating room, understood. But it is quite clear that there are families of children who are affected by both the ceiling on cash benefits and integration benefits and who are hit very hard by this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214092122	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214092126	But now the reality is such and the rapporteur has realised that the Social Democratic Party was not allowed into the negotiating room. I guess it would be more sensible to hold on to its fundamental and correct opposition, which we are in complete agreement on, to this ceiling on cash benefits. And why not just support SF's proposal? It's fully funded. Or should it be taken as an indication that the Social Democratic Party is, as it were, moving away from its opposition to this cash aid ceiling and is preparing a situation where, as a government, we say: we must live with the fucking excuse, President, correction: we must live with it and then we make such a pool? That pool should then be used to remove the cash benefits ceiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214092207	If you do not swear, you may be able to keep to your speaking time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214092214	Thank you, President. After all, we have tabled our own specific amendments on how to ensure those affected by the ceiling on cash benefits. And I have noted that the SF has made another proposal, by the way, financed in the same way that we in the Social Democratic Party have financed ours. That is why we will be voting yellow on the SF amendments, because we cannot spend the money twice.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214092238	Thank you. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214092244	Does the Social Democratic Party recognize that, in the absence of the reforms which the Social Democratic Party strongly opposed to the retirement pension, i.e. higher retirement age, the early retirement pension reform and the unemployment benefit reform, Denmark's economy had not been as good as it is now?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214092304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214092306	Major reforms were made in 2006 of which the Social Democratic Party was a part. Later reforms were made that Social Democracy was not part of. In the time of the SR government, reforms were made, of which the Social Democratic Party has been a part. Overall, they create an increase in labour supply of 200,000 by 2025, which is why we simply note that there is no need to make further labour supply reforms. Many other reforms are needed, and I can already see that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen sits and sighs and groans, just as he does when you point out that there is a different reality from that of the Liberal Alliance. However, our view is that there is a need for some other reforms which address precisely the challenge that we in Denmark are going to lack qualified labour. But we cannot solve this by looking at the effects of labour supply alone. Then I know that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is about to say: yes, yes, because that is once the only solution. If the Liberal Alliance sees a problem, there is only one solution in the drawer: a hammer. And then it doesn't matter if what we're going to get down is a screw. Here you go, sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214092415	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214092419	No, there's not just one solution. There are many solutions. It is the Social Democracy that has only one solution: upgrading and upgrading. That's all Social Democracy says. I asked whether the Social Democratic Party recognises that the reform of unemployment benefits and withdrawal reform, which the Social Democratic Party strongly opposes, has now brought Denmark into a very, very favourable situation. We can look into a future, according to Economic Statement, where structural unemployment is so low that there are bottlenecks in the labour market, and again we need reforms that increase the workforce, which also increases skilled labour on the labour market, because people stay on the labour market longer. Doesn't the Social Democratic Party recognize that? Or are we in the Social Democratic Party again so irresponsible that we will not help to do what we know to be right at heart, namely to continue the path of reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214092517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214092519	I think it's incredibly fresh that sir. Joachim B. Olsen interprets it as saying only one thing from the platform, namely qualification. That is simply not true. If sir... Joachim B. Olsen had listened, sir. Joachim B. Olsen has noted that I am just suggesting that we are at all times ready to make growth measures targeted the business community together with the government, if, moreover, it invites us to the negotiations on this. As you know, it was precisely in the time of the SR government that the vast majority of such reforms, which targeted growth initiatives in business, were taken and... I can see from the President that my speaking time has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214092559	Yes, and perhaps I should remind you at an early stage that we have a long day ahead of us, and if we keep to the speaking time, it will be a little shorter. Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214092610	Thank you. After all, there are many points in fiscal policy where S and R agree. However, since this is now a financial law debate, I would like to address one of the areas in which we really disagree at the moment, namely education policy. And that is simply because the Social Democratic Party has reached two settlements since the government arrived, namely one on the police, where it is financed by cutting every year in the country's youth education, which hits hard not least in rural areas and another conciliation on unemployment benefits, where you have a financing by setting the so-called training ceiling, so you should not take more than an education. We simply do not understand that the Social Democratic Party will name it. We all know that we are talking about amounts for which alternative funding could easily have been found. That is why my first and simple question to the Social Democratic Party is: how binding are the agreements made by the party? Can we, by a new majority, find another funding so that we stop this completely meaningless massacre of Denmark's future?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214092707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214092711	I really would have liked to have been able to find alternative funding, especially for the part dealing with unemployment benefit reform under a previous government. It is quite true that we did not have to embark on a priority exercise, which was to provide funding for precisely restoring the benefit area, so that so many did not fall out of the benefit system. But it must also be said that the efforts made under the previous government were well described by the Radical Left with the quote that Mr. Morten Østergaard has delivered to Euroman magazine. There he describes how the negotiations on whether or not to stick to the benefit agreement at the time went. He describes how he sat in the negotiating room with Bjarne Corydon and Helle Thorning-Schmidt: and then you think with yourself: "That's gonna be a lie..." They wanted to test my spine. And the backbone is the only thing you have to stick to in politics. And you didn't end up changing it. In other words, one simply ended up saying: No, we will not be involved in reforming and finding the money in that area. And you have to do that now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214092826	Here you go, sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214092830	Now my question is not backwards, but forwards. When we get a majority back, I can and will hear that this is not something the Social Democrats like. It is not something the Social Democrats want. But are we bound, or can we have alternative funding when we get a majority in favour of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214092904	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214092906	After all, it is relatively difficult to say what the economic situation will look like in the future when there may have been a parliamentary election. That depends on what the present government might have been able to burn off by then. And it is just as difficult to predict how, for example, the Radical Left would have to stand at that time. It is clear that, for example, it would require that the Radical Left had a quite different approach to, for example, the benefit area than has been the case up to now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214092934	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214092943	I would like to ask about the ceiling on cash benefits, because I find it rather difficult to find out what the Social Democrats really think. I have heard a great many Social Democrats protesting against the ceiling on cash aid, such as the labour market rapporteur, Mr President. Leif Lahn Jensen, who says it creates a poorer society. I assume that the Social Democratic Party will not help create a poorer society, but at the same time we cannot get the Social Democratic Party to say that they will roll back the ceiling on cash aid. And the Social Democrats' 2025 plan does not include the proceeds from rolling back the ceiling on cash benefits. So it's kind of as if the Social Democratic Party is both trying to be against the ceiling of cash aid and making big toasts about how terrible it is and at the same time will not change it. So what is the position of the Social Democratic Party: are you opposed to the ceiling on cash benefits, and will you therefore vote in favour of its abolition, or are you in favour of the ceiling on cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093035	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr. Rasmus Jarlov to show neighbourly love in this way and to look at the many people who are affected by the negative effects of the ceiling on cash benefits. I'm surprised. Having said that, it is quite right that, if a 2025 plan is to be drawn up, we do not want to include the proceeds from job reform 1, because in this way we think that the funds should be put right and make sure that there are no families, especially families with children, that are affected by poverty. That is precisely why Mr. Rasmus Jarlov out of the amendments to the Finance Act, which can then be hoped that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov will also vote in favour, can see that there is a pool that is set aside to ensure that the people who are particularly affected by the cash benefits ceiling, integration benefit, etc., are compensated.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093129	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093132	Okay, there's a pool to make sure somebody gets compensated. But this is really just a 'yes' or 'no' question: will the Social Democrats, if there is a majority in favour of it, abolish the ceiling on cash aid or not? Or are you just going to make a pool and then take some undefined measures to mitigate the effects of the cash benefits ceiling? I still think it is wool in the mouth and we lack answers as to whether the Social Democrats are in favour of the ceiling on cash aid or whether they intend to remove it. And there are only two options: either you want to remove it or you don't want to remove it. What's that yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093211	The Social Democratic Party voted against the ceiling on cash aid, which Mr. Rasmus Jarlov will remember. We have also noted that there is a majority of the mandate for this in the current Parliament. If it were the case that we had been invited into a negotiating room, then we would have gone to make exactly the solution that we outline in our amendments to the Finance Act. What may happen in a future Parliament, for which there may be a majority, and for which there may be funding, we must of course go then, but we are against the ceiling on cash aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093236	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093241	It is a bit strange to stand here and discuss Finance Law with Denmark's largest opposition party... the party that would like to have the power of government... when the party has not even put forward a plan for what the Finance Act would look like if the party had been in power. So it's kind of funny. However, since it is that the Social Democrats have not tabled a draft budget, we must instead take the basis of the four amendments proposed by the Social Democrats to the draft budget. And this is where you cancel job reform 2. Job reform 1, with the ceiling on cash benefits, maintains the social democracy, but tax cuts will not be granted to the lowest-paid. Can the Social Democrat rapporteur tell us why the low-paid employee should not receive tax relief? For that is after all cancelled with the Social Democratic amendment to the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093328	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093330	I do not think Mrs Louise Schack Elholm has quite understood the consequences of the amendments that we have tabled, and that is so fair enough. So I just have to repeat once again: the Prime Minister clearly proclaimed that a 2025 plan and a finance agreement for 2017 were inextricably linked. We agreed to this course and presented a negotiating paper which the former Minister of Finance was planning; rather manipulative on top of that, in order to be able to enter the negotiating room. And then at the last minute, the Prime Minister found out that these two things may not be entirely connected after all. The 2025 plan was poured out with the bathing water, and then a very narrow little agreement was reached on the Finance Act. So we have simply lived up to and followed the instructions given by the Prime Minister. Now I understand from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm that that should not be done. You should not trust the Prime Minister in the future, you should not follow the instructions that come from the government, and that is, of course, a lesson to learn.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093437	Here you go, Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093441	When you ask in the east, you get answers in the west. Can we get any answers as to why it is that the Social Democrats do not want any tax cuts for the lowest-paid employees? So, it says quite precisely in the draft budget that a pool has been set aside for job reform 2. Why is it that it will be abolished because then there will be no tax relief for the lowest-paid? Why shouldn't the lowest-paid ones have a carrot? Why do you only want to whip the ceiling? We do not want to do away with this, but we do not want to set aside money for tax cuts for the lowest-paid.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093506	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093509	Mrs Schack Elholm can see that the money that comes from job reform 1 is money that is being taken from already disadvantaged families of children, and we think this is an incredibly bad idea so bad an idea that we voted against the proposal on the ceiling for cash benefits. And that is why it is also very natural that we do not think that money should go for tax relief. If it is the case that sometime in the future we would have to find sustainable financing, then we do not, of course, reject tax cuts. However, I can only note that the government has found nothing like sustainable funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093542	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093547	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I would like to ask about the agreement reached by the Social Democratic Party on tax phasing-in for electric cars. What I hear the Social Democrats seem to agree with now is that it is a huge problem that the sale of electric cars has stopped completely. So I would like to ask what the Social Democrats think in this regard, in relation to what it is that is needed to get the electric car sales back up here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093623	It is clear that the phasing-in of the electric car agreement must be discussed on a regular basis among the conciliation parties, and it would of course have been nice if the alternative and other progressive parties were also involved. You're not. However, it is clear that in the area of revenue earmarked in this area, it is quite natural to look at whether things are now going as they are expected. And that is also the message from our tax rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093652	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093656	The reason why the alternative is just not included in this agreement is that we were involved in the whole negotiation process. We predicted that with the agreement that was made and that the Social Democracy was then included in, there would most likely be a total stop to the sale of electric cars in Denmark. And that, unfortunately, is what now turns out to be right. But could the rapporteur not elaborate on what the position is now on discussing the agreement? What does the Social Democrats intend to be involved in the discussions that are to take place now? In other words, we can get the sales of electric cars back on track in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093730	A total stop would probably require that zero electric cars had been sold, and yet there is not. But it is quite true that everyone had to foresee that the hoarding, which was of very expensive electric cars in the previous year in particular, would lead to an abrupt decline. This can also be seen by the number of cars that are still away standing in the squares around and that have never been out to have their first owner. But it is clear that, within the framework already agreed, we would like to go in and ensure that this phasing-in takes place in such a way that we also have a fair distribution of these cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093812	Thank you. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093815	Thank you. I'd like to pursue that trail a little bit. An agreement was reached last year with the Social Democrats and the Radicals, but, as I understand it, the developments that have taken place are not entirely satisfactory either. Now the rapporteur says that there has not been a total stop, but if you take away the cars that have been deregistered, there is, so to speak, a minus sale there are at least fewer electric cars on the street. If the rapporteur then says that it is within the framework that there is, I would say that the framework that exists will not, of course, provide new money to ensure a lower tax or no tax on electric cars. So how are we gonna get this kick-started again? After all, we have quite ambitious climate targets in the transport sector, with which we cannot, of course, reach the goal if we do not have the transport of passengers redesigned as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093910	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093914	This does not, of course, make it any more easy for the tax on cars to be changed, which will have a spill-over effect, so that the sale of electric cars will be further complicated or made more difficult. Of course. However, we do not have large sums of money within the conciliation circle, and it is not my impression that the government has the mind to find further. That is why we will, of course, work in the conciliation circle to ensure that, with the resources available, we get as far as possible, not on the litre, but on the kilowatt hour.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093950	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214093954	Thank you. I'm glad to hear that. If it is not possible to find new money from outside, you can of course take some of the many proposals that came on the table when we discussed it last year. I know that the Socialists had some, Radicals had some, and we had a large number of proposals from the SF that could come into play to ensure that the tax on electric cars at least does not become as significant as we see it now. In fact, from the SF's point of view, we had fully financed the fact that no tax could continue. I certainly hope that both the Social Democrats and the Radicals will bring back the whole bunch of proposals. It may be that it awakens a little more responsiveness on the other side of the table now that you can see how much impact it has had on the electric car sales.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214094037	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214094040	There are many considerations to consider. It is not just a question of private car buyers; it is also, for example, a question of fleet sales, where there is something like this, for example. the tax on the electricity which, if necessary, is needed for cars and which, of course, we are also constantly looking at. But, as I said, it needs to be done within the framework there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214094101	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214094110	Today it is the case that a company owner pays 15%. in tax to the State if he or she transfers the undertaking to his or her children. That tax will the government lower to 5%. in 2020 and it must be phased in. It'll cost 200 million. kr. in 2017, and it will cost 1 billion. kr. a year when it is fully phased in in 2020. And that's not very wise, among other things. because it is not natural that it is the heirs who will be the best at continuing the business, and it is not very wise because the money can be spent on much else. But my question is whether the Social Democrats, when we get a new majority in this Parliament, will also continue to support the cancellation of this reduction in inheritance tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214094154	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214094157	Yes, for example, we are already proposing this in our amendments to the draft budget. We also think it is quite obvious to look in a completely different direction, namely to strengthen the transition to commercial funds. 'Cause there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, there's, uh, there's, there's, like, uh, Rune Lund also so accurately indicates, no guarantee that the son or daughter is the best to run a business further. There may therefore be very good intentions in creating instead commercial funds which are still for the benefit of the family concerned, but which at the same time ensure that, for example, a company is not transferred to foreign ownership or disposed of and phased out to other countries. A good Danish model can be said to be the business foundation construction, and we think this is natural to strengthen in a growth initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214094254	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214094257	Thank you for your answer. I am not quite sure whether I heard the rapporteur say that the Social Democrats, even after an election, will stand firm on this proposal and will also now state that in any case this tax reduction will be withdrawn. I think that might be a little interesting. Because we have had a discussion many times down here in the Parliamentary Chamber about, for example. The Social Democratic Party did not want to commit itself to the costs of an election. But perhaps we could have a discussion in the opposition and agree on some things that could increase the room for manoeuvre that we will have available after an election, in other words a catalogue of what revenue we would like to have available when a new majority comes into power. It is against this background that I ask.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214094338	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214094341	With this as a spending proposal very much depends on what is going to happen and on how a Parliament might be composed after a parliamentary election, i.e. whether there is a change of government etc. And, of course, it must also be the case that you look not only at the revenue side, but also at what you then have to use the funds for. But the Social Democratic Party is in a position to say that we think it is a really bad idea to give these reliefs to business. There is no proof, and there is no empire to suggest that it should create any kind of growth in society, and therefore this money will have been spent much wiser in other ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214094419	Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214094425	Thank you. I would like to return to education. The educational ceiling that the Social Democratic Party will introduce together with the government and the Danish People's Party will hit a lot of students who move to get more opportunities. They are upgrading their skills in the labour market in order to be able to do better. This is usually a socialist policy. But this bill comes with an unheard-of card phase-in. It is going to hit a lot of people who have spent time and perhaps even resources. I have examples of people who have moved elsewhere in the country with their families to get ready for the upskilling that is now being stopped. Will the Social Democratic Party help to change this a little bit?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214094519	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214094521	There is a specific legal procedure under way, and I do not want to interfere with it. I would like to deal with the overall issue, namely that when we have to give priority to priorities, these are difficult priorities that need to be made. It is, of course, a difficult priority that we have made here. But it is also clear that when it comes to ensuring that people do not fall out of the benefit system, that is something we are very concerned about. And then I'm gonna have to challenge something. One should be careful not to take the many unskilled people in Denmark hostage in this discussion. Because when we talk about upgrading, we are talking precisely about many of us who have just not taken a long education and who must have the opportunity to get in and get some of the many job vacancies that will come in the future. 'Cause we're gonna have a lot of skilled labor. So let's just keep the perspectives as they are. But it is clear that this is not a priority that we think has been fun to make. There is no doubt about that. But it is a priority that has been necessary because we want to ensure the unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214094626	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214094629	I agree that we must keep our priorities, and if anyone is taking someone hostage, then it is the Social Democrats who are now taking all the students who are trying to qualify for future jobs as hostages. Is the rapporteur aware that in 2017 15 million will be recovered? kr. In there? That's 15 million. kr., which makes many students affected by a very quick phasing-in of a bill. Does the rapporteur think that it would be quite impossible for the Social Democratic Party to find 15 million? kr., so you could take a year's period of reflection on this bill, so it doesn't hit all the many students who have planned their lives, moved their families and perhaps even took loans to qualify themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214094718	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214094721	I am not going to go into the specific legal procedure because it is going on in a different context. However, it is clear that the priorities that we have been involved in making are difficult choices. That's always the way it is when you take responsibility. But those priorities are some that we have made with our eyes open, precisely because we have been aware that otherwise there would be people who fell out of the benefit system.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214094741	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214094748	Thank you. Tomorrow we will have a hearing under the auspices of the Danish Parliament's Committee on Health and Older People's Rights, and the hearing is about the situation in the Danish maternity wards. It is, of course, a hearing which has been carried out at the request of the Social Democrats, and we in the Left fully support it. I have noted through the press that the Social Democratic Health Rapporteur has said that the purpose of the hearing is to press the government to devote more money to maternity. Against this background, of course, I have looked forward to seeing the Social Democrats' amendments to the Finance Act. I have had a bit of difficulty in spotting the feeding routes, so I would just like to ask the rapporteur: how much money do you want to give a specific priority to the feeding routes? And where are they in the amendments that have been tabled?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214094832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214094835	In the amendments tabled by the Social Democrats, we have set aside a general amount for health. It is, of course, an indication that, if we had been invited to a budget debate, we would, of course, have taken up these discussions. And, as Mrs Jane Heitmann knows, from the time of the previous government, the SR government, there was a larger pool for precisely the maternity departments than the amount allocated by the present government. However, I am pleased that the Committee on Health and the Elderly is holding that hearing, and I am also pleased that the largest government party also believes that it is a relevant consultation to hold. In fact, I am very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214094914	Here you go, Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214094918	I have noted two points. The amendment from the Social Democratic Party mentions the sick and mentions the elderly. After all, it is not a disease to be pregnant, and after all it is rare to see older women in the Danish maternity wards. I just have to ask: how much money will be given to the maternity wards? And before the rapporteur gets off to work too well, I think we should perhaps keep the proportions in place. With the last financial law, we have prioritised 2.4 billion. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which is a very good one, and I would like to thank him for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214094952	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214094955	What we proposed was, moreover, a greater increase in that amount. In fact, I have some doubts as to the purpose of Mrs Jane Heitmann's question. It sounds to me like you're trying to run in an open door. Do we agree that health needs to be strengthened? Yes, we are. In fact, I think it is a little strange to scrutinise the Social Democrats to say that the improvements made in the health field are good, but we think it would be a good idea to add a little more.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214095026	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214095029	Thank you. I would just like to return to the electric cars, because we are really concerned about how we can do something about it. So, I know it is said that there is a pool and that we need to look at what can be done within this conciliation circle, but does the rapporteur not recognise a little that this conciliation has failed • the conciliation on electric cars that the Social Democrats have helped to make • that that pool should be seen in the context of the huge tax cuts being put on fossil cars and that, if we really want to live up to our responsibility to have a clean transport investment, something extraordinary must be done? Is the Social Democratic Party willing to say that this conciliation does not work and that we must terminate it so that after a forthcoming elections we can make a real settlement that will do something about this, so that we meet our obligations in relation to the transport sector through the European Union; so that we live up to the Paris Agreement, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214095125	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214095127	I should just like to point out that the Social Democrats are not part of the financial agreement which results in tax reductions for fossil cars, and it is quite true that if the government had wanted to do so, this area could also have been thought into. That is why I am not going to stand here defending that part of the government and the parties to the agreement behind the policy of the Finance Act. But it is also clear that there is more and more to the sale of electric cars in Denmark. I mean, like... I think that there are quite a lot of consumers who also have some scepticism about the area, among others. because at the time we had a very large project • Better Place Denmark • which unfortunately failed and which has therefore also removed part of the confidence that is in the market. In other words, if you compare with Norway, for example, they have not had a similar problem. So it is not just a question of how to set up the system; it is therefore also a question of whether the Danes trust the electric cars to work. Fortunately, I believe that technological developments will also help in this respect over the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214095240	Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214095243	But that is precisely what happens by planning this transition in the transport sector to renewable energy, that is to say to a clean transport sector. This is also where private companies can go in and help to create the infrastructure needed. But it does require that there are some long-term goals, that is, that we make planning where people can see how this is worthwhile. And it has to be said that the agreement that the Social Democratic Party has helped to make about electric cars cannot be seen out of context. When the government chooses to make a financial bill in which they reduce taxes in this way on fossil cars, one has to consider it and ask: is this a settlement in which we can see ourselves? Or is this totally irrelevant if we really want this transition?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214095325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214095327	That's fine, I'd say to Mr. Simpson. Rasmus Nordqvist. But I assume that one has gradually learned from being here in the Folketing that if one steps out of a settlement, it will be the case that nothing else will happen about it but that nothing will happen. So, that's why the best place to be is right in the negotiating room instead of resigning, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214095349	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214095354	Thank you. The last answer given by the Social Democrat rapporteur highlights a little the absurd situation we are in. Social democracy is opposed to a reduction in registration fees, but so no amendment is tabled to remove it so that it is reviled but left to stand. And it is a little strange that we are here today with six amendments, in which the Social Democrats are only alone in the four, and that means that there should be no tax cuts for the people on the labour market with the lowest incomes. We do not need a housing job scheme, and we do not need to ensure that our companies can change their generations. On the other hand, there is a little upgrading, a little health and a pool that will gradually cover many things. That is why it is really just that I have to hear: when the Social Democrat tax rapporteur in BT promises more money on 11 November to SKAT • the recovery package and agreement that is, moreover, that one thinks is inadequate • where can we see it translate into the Social Democratic amendment to next year's Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214095459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214095500	As it will be, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen knows, we have been involved in the negotiations on the recovery of the SKAT. We would very, very much like to take responsibility for that. In those negotiations, we have done everything we could to push for it. Not only was the necessary recovery secured, as I believe everyone in this Parliament agrees, but also the lack of funding, which lies in the government's own proposal, because the recovery plan for SKAT presented by the government and the tax minister lacks funding for 1.7 billion. kr. So before mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen gets off the ground far too well in relation to that area, I think you should address that issue even in the government. We would very much like to take responsibility for this, and we have signaled this time and again, both by our tax rapporteur and by our leadership in the negotiating room.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214095558	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214095600	I would like to sign off on the fact that the Social Democratic Party is helping to take responsibility in this matter. It's just a little obvious that you say you want to spend more money, but you don't put it off. This then leads me to 5 December, when the Social Democrat's older rapporteur says something in Berlingske under an article that says: "More money and less paperwork must ensure acceptable care for the elderly," says the Social Democratic Party. I just have to ask: in the amendments tabled by the Social Democratic Party to the 2017 Finance Act, how does it appear that the party will spend more money on care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214095629	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214095631	We have already mentioned that amendment at the same time, as Mr von der Vring has said. Torsten Schack Pedersen, a very good colleague, Mrs Jane Heitmann, was also mentioned in her review. But that does not change the fact that we agree with the government that the administrative burden must be changed in the care of the elderly as well. I have to admit, then, that I see it first and foremost when I read the government base as a proposal for a major austerity exercise. When I look at the fact that, for example, in 2018, growth of only 0.3 per cent is expected, it is quite clear that if we follow the government's plans to be in a situation where it will be quite difficult in that area too.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214095718	Thank you. Then there is no more speaking time for the Socialist rapporteur. Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214095732	We in the Danish People's Party are in fact very proud of the Danish Finance Act for 2017, and we were also proud of it for 2016. What appears after we have had a change of government in Denmark? It turns out that with the Danish People's Party as a support party we can show for the second year in a row that there will be moderate growth in public consumption. What does that mean? This means that we have gone from a period when we had minus growth, that is to say, fewer public employees, around 14,000 fewer in the public sector, and so that you can now see in the municipalities that there is little room for you to hire a little more in the elderly care, you can do a little more for the primary school, you can do a little more in the day care institutions. We are very pleased that we have been able to deliver it now for the second year running. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for Finance. Unfortunately, it is not the Finance Minister who is sitting there now, but congratulations on the post, because it is for the predecessor of the current Finance Minister. I would also like to express my thanks to the Conservatives and to the Liberal Alliance for a very good progress that has been made in connection with the Finance Act for 2017. We could hear from the former rapporteur that this was not always the case under the previous government. You could read in Euroman and elsewhere about how the negotiations had turned out. I have to say that we had a formidable process in connection with the Finance Act for 2017. What, then, has come out of this process? Yes, in the area of the elderly, last year we placed a dignified billion. It wasn't such a pool of 1 billion. kr., and then you have to apply for a share in it, and then you have to see when the money is spent. No, that's 1 billion. kr., coming year after year. And in 2017 there will be another 1 billion. kr. to be used for dignity in the care of the elderly. It is also the case that we have started work to see how to spend this money in the municipalities. It is not because we have mistrust of the municipalities, but still. Fortunately, with the provisional figures it turns out that over 80%. of the municipalities have spent this money right. That is to say, over 80%. of the elderly in the municipalities in one way or another have experienced that they have received a boost in the care of the elderly. We are very pleased that we, together with our partners, have been able to raise that money, i.e. 1 billion. kr. a year. Another thing we are really happy about in the 2017 Finance Act is that we've got money set off, 450 million. kr., for older food. Why is this so important? We think that a lot of municipalities out there are cooking good food. We're not accusing the municipalities of making bad food. But the food isn't worth anything until it's eaten. This is what must happen with food before it is of value to the elderly and others who are fed from the municipal kitchens. That is why we have set aside a large bag of money to produce more on-site food, in other words in nursing homes. We have also put a pool of that where you have shared kitchens and other things, people can apply to a pool to make it better. I think we've all seen the picture of that black plastic tray with three compartments in it with foil over it and some white food down it. We would really like that to be much better at the large group, which actually gets food in their own homes. That's about. Fifty per cent who gets at care centers, and 50 per cent who gets at home. We really hope that the municipalities will offer that money. We are also very open to offering that money so that you can share knowledge with larger projects, so that all of Denmark can benefit from this money, also in the long run. So the older area has filled a lot in 2016, and it has filled a lot in 2017. This will, of course, continue in the future. We welcome the fact that this is going the right way, and it is now going the right way for the second year in a row. Another thing that has given us a great deal of attention is the working conditions of the police. How are we going to solve the challenges that are? It has to be said that, unfortunately, we are almost daily being made aware that we have a challenge. That is why we are very pleased that, in the context of the Finance Act, we have been able to start work with another 120 officers in addition to what has previously been agreed. We have also introduced a new concept when we talk to the police, and these are political bases. It's something new that's coming. It has also been discussed a great deal. It's not a B team. It's some cops who get some assignments for which they're fully qualified. Then, of course, there are some assignments these cops don't get. They're not qualified for that either. But the tasks for which they are assigned will, of course, be fully qualified. Some of the tasks can include: be to stand and guard the Danish border. We think this is very positive, and we can also see that 220 million have been set aside in the Finance Act. kr. precisely for the task of guarding the Danish border. This is once again a positive step. Another thing that has filled a great deal is the area of foreigners. It does so in the Finance Act. What we have paid particular attention to is what kind of system we have. It has to be said that one of the things that has come along has been reinforced broadcasting. It is incredibly important that the people who come here, whom we accept, provide accommodation and protection, but for one reason or another are not entitled to be here, can be sent home when that is the case. That is why we are pleased that we have written in that the work to get agreements made with the beneficiary countries is being strengthened. Another thing that we really appreciate is that we are now getting an emergency brake. What's the emergency brake? The emergency brake is precisely that you can deal with matters at the border when refugees come to Denmark in large quantities, as we have seen in the past. Why can you do that? Just a year ago everyone told the Danish People's Party that it was not possible. It was utopia, it was not possible to do so on the border, it was not possible to refute refugees on the border. But now there is a majority who is absolutely convinced that you can. And so can you. Because if a fugitive comes from Germany, you do not come from a country in chaos and war. Then you come from a well-functioning country, Germany, and that is why there will be this opportunity if, contrary to expectations, we find ourselves in a situation where people are walking on motorways and other things, that we can deal with the matter immediately on the border. That is very positive. Another thing has been sharpened. If you, as a foreigner living in Denmark, are given unconditional imprisonment, it has been the case in the past that you have to have 12 months of unconditional imprisonment in order to lose the right to permanent residence. We are now reducing this to six months. Why is this especially important now? It should therefore be remembered that it is people who come to Denmark from outside and who can at some point have permanent residence. So they get with king's crown and everything on a document that they cannot conform to the rules that work in Denmark. I would also like to say that if you have been given six months of unconditional imprisonment in Denmark, you have not just stolen a bicycle. Then you've done something that's something. That is why we are very pleased that it has been tightened up so that it is not 12 months, but 6 months that it is now going to be about. Then you lose the right to permanent residence. There are a lot of other things in the Finance Act that I would also like to see if I can get in touch with. Among other things: We've got a pool made. It's not like it's a new pool, but we've got a redefined pool. It's a $300 million pool. kr., a special grant pool for municipalities that have difficult financial challenges. It's a pool that's been there before. It's actually a pool that Enhedslisten had in his time made, and it was very antisocial. There were 400 million. kr. to the largest cities in Denmark. It was the case that the City of Copenhagen got 98 million. kr., i.e. 25%. But it was all municipalities that contributed to it. Among other things: such a municipality as Lolland Municipality contributed to the pool, i.e. to Copenhagen having more money. It is the municipality that has the highest social index, i.e. the municipality that has the most challenged citizens. They had to pay for it. Fortunately, we have changed it. The pool is still gone, but now, of course, it has become much more equal, including socially. Now it goes to the municipalities that have the greatest challenges, and we are, of course, very happy about that. Another thing that has filled a great deal for us in the context of the Finance Act is social dumping. We are very pleased that we have now succeeded in calming down social dumping. In the past, appropriations have been made available for one year at a time. What happens when you have it? Then it happens that you actually only have a half-yearly grant, because then you hire people, but you have to cancel them, because you don't know if you get the money back. So, in fact, these people have only been able to be employed 1⁄2 years. Now we've got the money dropped in the estimates too. This means that you can now keep the employees. That is to say, every six months you don't have to tell the employees that they have to be fired. Now you can hold on to the good employees, you can continue the good work. In DF, we must also say that, with the situation we are in right now with the very large construction work to be started, especially state buildings such as the Fehmarn connection, super hospitals, infrastructure projects, train fund etc., it is not right now that we are going to save on the fight against social dumping. It is precisely now that we need a system that is operational, that is good, that has good employees, that has employees with experience who can go out and carry out the random checks that need to be carried out. It has calmed down, and we are very pleased about that. I would also like to thank 3F, which has praised us for having succeeded in including this in the 2017 Finance Act. Another minor item in the Finance Act can be an amount of 40 million. kr. We are delighted that we have succeeded. I believe that other parties that are not included in the Finance Act are also. We've set 40 million. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214100811	Thank you. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214100814	First of all, on behalf of the other parties behind the Togfonden DK, I would like to thank you for your cooperation on this, i.e. to keep the government on track, literally. Now to a question that has filled a lot in the course of the process about the Finance Act, but which has ended up not being part of it. I am thinking of one of the elements negotiated in the 2025 plan, namely the age of withdrawal. Yesterday, in Parliament's Question Time, we heard that the Prime Minister did not want to answer questions as to whether it was the government's intention that people should withdraw from the labour market six months later or even later. And if we look at the growth targets contained in the current government's government's basis, we may have to wait quite a long time before we can withdraw, in other words if we are to achieve the effects of 55 000 to 60 000 on the job supply that is being created. So I just have to hear the view of the Danish People's Party at retirement age: Does the Danish People's Party want the Danes to retire later than has already been agreed?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214100926	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214100927	We are completely at the goal of the withdrawal reform that exists, and we are a part of that. After all, time is increased in terms of when you can retire, and that is what we are aiming for. We are very sorry about the development that is going to take six months, because you can have a discussion about what 6 months is. Then it is not because they say that people have to be longer in the labour market, so it is because they want to use the scope for something else. There we are a little afraid that both this government and perhaps future governments will see that one month will actually also give a great deal of money when you look at it and that this will be a way of providing funding for the policy you want to pursue, and we do not want to participate in it. We have had a good discussion on retirement age in the context of the withdrawal reform. It must be implemented, it is our goal, and we do not want to touch withdrawal at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214101016	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214101018	It is also just that there should be no doubt, because we agree with the Danish People's Party in this area. Nor do we believe that we should go in and change the framework already agreed. It is the case that people have had very good time to adjust to what might happen in relation to later withdrawal. However, if a situation arises where things change at short notice, it would be like coming as a thief at night and changing, for example, 57-year-olds' pension considerations at this time. So from this point of view I would like to say that we share the views of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214101100	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214101101	It is more a comment, but I can say that we share that view too, and we really welcome the fact that people live longer. But what you just have to remember is that one thing is spreadsheet, but another thing is the reality you see when you look out the window. It is true that people live longer and that is why the average age is increasing, but you just have to remember that people live longer with disease, so this does not mean that all of them are working people who live longer. I think we should have another discussion: what sort of arrangements can be made so that people can stay longer in the labour market. I'm actually talking to a lot of people up in the '70s who want to work more. They may not want to work 37 hours, because they want something more free, so they can also be with grandchildren and do other things, but many, even at the age of 70, would like to work, for example, 20 hours a week at the workplace they know.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214101146	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214101148	I would also like to thank Mr Seligman. René Christensen and Dansk Folkeparti for the course around the Finance Act. I also think that Mr. René Christensen that it was very nice and constructive. Sir. René Christensen also has a municipal background, and some of the things that have been discussed, and which have also been discussed here today, have been the ceiling on cash aid, that is, whether it is fair now and whether it works or not. And I would like to ask what experience and what feeling Mr. René Christensen as a member of parliament with the municipal hat on has in connection with whether the ceiling on cash benefits seems to work or not. Then we can at least go beyond that discussion on that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214101226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214101227	It may be difficult to say whether it works at this time, because it is very new. But that is absolutely right, as the rapporteur knows, because we have talked about it, that we have some experience from the municipality from which I come, and that is Guldborgsund Municipality. That's how it was 25 per cent. of the recipients of cash benefits affected by the ceiling on cash benefits, which is approx. 600 people. But what is interesting at first and one must hope that it can continue is that the 318 of them, actually over 50%. of those affected by the ceiling on cash benefits have been employed for the 113 hours. It's kind of positive. What is so important for the municipalities is not only for the municipality, but for all the municipalities, it is that you get the 318 and make sure that they can stay in employment and see what it is that has done, that they got the 113 hours. Then it is also important to address the last part and clarify how to ensure that this family or others have an opportunity to increase their income base. After all, it is getting into full or partial employment, and they are being given the opportunity to do so now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214101324	Here you go, sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214101327	Thank you. Well, I think it's relevant, and I think it's really good. Now it's Guldborgsund Municipality, but it's probably other municipalities too. We can certainly find out by asking about it. But the reason I ask is, of course, that when we discuss these things, you have to understand from those who are against this that it is both because it does not work and because it is an antisocial and everything else. I'll tell you what. René Christensen not the view that I have, that is, that the greatest social boost one can give to a human being, is to ensure that they get into real ordinary employment? And if you can see that the ceiling on cash aid is working in this direction, then we must also, it can be said, help, through the ceiling on cash aid, to give precisely the social boost, it is actually to get the people mentioned here by René Christensen from his own municipality, who actually represents a fairly large share, into employment. Is Mr. René Christensen did not agree with me on that point?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214101414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214101415	I fully agree that most people want to be self-supporting. People don't want to be on passive support. It is always said that the ceiling on cash benefits hits the weakest, but that is not true. This is among other things. Therefore, that in a municipality like that I come from, it is only 25% that is hit by the ceiling; the 75%. are freed because they have some particular challenges with illness and other things and are therefore not affected by the ceiling on cash benefits. Those who are affected are, of course, those who have the opportunity and the ability to get out and become self-supporting. So you can see that in this example, that's over 50 percent. of them then become, and that is a good thing. It's a good story, too, for the individual.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214101454	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214101458	Thank you. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... René Christensen has visited a production school and if he has not, it is time to do so. It must be worthwhile to work, says the government, and so says the Danish People's Party over and over again, also in relation to the production schools. The Danish People's Party has voted for the most scandalous cut at least for a very, very long time by cutting the salary of the production school pupils and thus throughout the life base of these young people who find it difficult to move on in life. Young people aged 15 to 25 who do not know exactly where they are going are helped on their way to workshops, restaurants, kitchens, textile departments, etc. They're trying to have a purpose in life. It may be the most important school we have in the whole community, because it can help those people who have very, very difficult about it and their wages you cut. What's the reason for that, sir? René Christensen?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214101552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214101553	I can say so much that I have been on the board of a production school; I have been a post-school teacher for many of the pupils who have also been to a production school, so I know it very well. So I would like to take this opportunity to say: do not use this opportunity to talk production schools down completely, and do not talk down to these students who attend a production school. They're not all the weakest. It is some students who have some challenges in a period of their lives. These students go not only to get a salary; they go there too, of course, because the production schools supply a very good product, a product which is aimed at some of these young people, who have also been school-tired. These are some of them who can use their hands, but have little difficulty seeing what they need the mathematics for. That's what they learn in the garage. I believe that even if there is a cut on their salaries we do not think that is fantastic, I would say that, but now it is happening, I certainly hope that there will still be a great many young people who will choose a production school if that is what they need. But it is not a success to have as many as possible at a production school; it is a success when most are in ordinary education and it is not a production school. But some need to be there, and I am quite sure they will continue to be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214101703	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214101705	I'm not talking the production schools down. On the contrary, I referred to them as the most important form of school we have in our society at all. I'm talking the Danish People's Party and the government down because you're making this indecent attack on these forms of school. You don't even understand the basis of these production schools, because it's precisely that you get paid for the work you do and learn that it's worthwhile working as you talk so much about. That's why I'm talking DF down in this case. I think it is quite, quite obscene. It's our kids and those of our kids who need a helping hand out of this great school form. That's the one you're starting to attack with your cuts in this game, and I'm really sorry about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214101746	There are no direct charges between Members of Parliament in this Chamber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214101751	The production schools are then also being talked down. Because does Enhedslisten really think that the students are only in production school for the sake of pay? I don't believe it. That offer is an educational offer where you use some other tools. It should also be remembered that the production schools do not give grades, so it is not an education as such. But a great many of the students learn a great deal about being human and getting to work at a workplace, and they can still learn that out in the production schools. I am just sorry about the debate that has been going on and it is not the debate that has been going on right now in the Danish Parliament, but that these students have been counted down and that the product delivered by the production schools has been counted down. They're delivering a highly qualified educational product out there, and I'm sure they'll keep doing that. I am sure that the young people, although cut in their performance, can see the value of going to a production school. So I don't have the same fear you have on the Enhedslisten side.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214101846	Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214101850	Thank you. The rapporteur mentioned the dignity billion in his speech. I would like to know whether the rapporteur and the Danish People's Party think it has become more worthy of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214101903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214101905	That is what we need to see, but we cannot see that now. But what we can see we've had the opportunity to skim it through is at least that approx. 80% of the municipalities have increased their budgets. But it's not just spending money, you know, it doesn't do itself. What is going to be interesting, and this is what we are going to do now in 2017, is to look at what kind of dignity policies have been made in the municipality • What have you spent the money on? For what was interesting about the dignity billionaire was that it was not just service standards, compared to how long you have to wear diapers and how long you have to do something else. No, this was supposed to be about everything else. I hope that many municipalities have chosen to buy a bus so that you can take the elderly out and look at the land. A farmer can come out and see his former fields etc. etc. You can have entertainment at the care center, you can have a party, you can do some things, so being older is a life with content and not just a life with some service standards where you are properly cared for. It must also be a life of content. And I believe that in this way, because this was to be discussed in the town halls and not just in the committees. These are city council decisions that need to be made out there, and we therefore hope and believe that this has been taken seriously in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214102013	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214102014	I fully agree with the rapporteur that it is not just about money and whether it is a billion or a half or two. But before you buy that bus, it's not about that so that it can be worthwhile, that there are some basic things that need to be in place, for example. That there are enough employees in the nursing homes? According to the municipalities, it is also a little bit about the fact that one has taken 1%. from the total budget in a re-prioritization contribution, and then 1 billion has been paid. kr. I mean, there's older people going to bed at night. 19 in the evening, and then they come up at 9:00. 10 next morning, because there is not enough staffing. So I want to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is satisfied or whether the rapporteur thinks that it could have been done differently, for example. In the case of elderly care, there had been money to increase the number of employees, e.g. in elderly care. The Alzheimer's Association has suggested.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214102107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214102108	It is, in fact, one of the principles of dignity billionaires: it must give warm hands, but it must also give the other. As far as I remember the numbers, it's about 70 percent. of the money that has actually been spent on hiring more people in the care of the elderly, and that is, of course, positive. We have also heard about care centres where you do not have night shifts etc. etc. That is also important. But I just want to say that we must not talk about the dignity of the elderly and the elderly as something that can be put into such a framework and that it is just a matter of keeping them and not getting sick and getting food. These are people we're talking about here. After all, it is also about content and to be allowed to be human, and the older woman must also be allowed to get lipstick and cheeky, etc. Even if she's gone to the care center.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214102146	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214102150	Thank you. I would also like to ask questions about the savings made in the production schools in particular. For the extended hand, which the rapporteur says he wants to give young people, becomes an equal right with the combination of re-prioritisation savings and the removal of school performance. So that combination is a dangerous cocktail. On the same day as the new government was presented outside Amalienborg, I visited Aalborg Production School. We have visited many production schools throughout the country and the smiles that could be seen on the faces of the new government could not be found here. They said that the combination of young people who may have experienced some problems during their primary school hours and then are told that the school allowance disappears as they need for the work they provide they provide costumes for TV 2's Christmas calendar, they make Christmas decorations, they do all sorts of things that have a real value • while the quality drops and teachers must be fired, is a dangerous cocktail. It means, at least out there, that they can't survive in the long run.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214102303	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214102305	Oh, this is where you get really tired. Because that's not right. It is not true that production schools have been cut. There's been a cut in the school allowance for the student. The school can still run school for exactly the same money they had yesterday. They can do the same tomorrow. The municipalities still have to pay the same for a school stay. What they had to pay yesterday, they have to pay tomorrow. There are no cuts in the production schools, which have been cut on the benefits to pupils. We have to agree on that. I would also like to say that young people are a little overruled when they think that they do not see this as a help; that they are only doing so in order to create a basis for themselves. I would like to say that it is not something that has grown in our garden. We would have liked to have been without it. But apart from that, I just do not agree with the premise that students are only there because they are paid for it. These students may have some challenges, but intellectually it's ordinary people who go there who can also think about: What's good for me? What is it that helps me in my everyday life? What needs to make me better to get out to be self-supporting in the long run? The production school is a good stay for me. I still believe they'll be there. Don't talk those kids down. They can think for themselves, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214102408	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214102410	Of course they can think for themselves. That is why they also want to be paid for the real work they do, which is being sold to companies and sold on to all kinds of places. That's why they want that salary. Some of them are also at age, where they have some expenses that you do not have, if you are 16 years old and go to high school and live at home. So it's the opposite of talking them down. It is to take them seriously and to say that they must be paid for a job they provide, which is being sold to companies and to others in the private sector. And it is not true that no cuts are being made, because Aalborg Production School is about to lose 5.6 million. kr. For the next four years, and the budget just doesn't hold up.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214102451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214102452	However, we agree that a production school should be based on preparing young people for education. It's not just a job. It is not a place where there is collective pay and other things. We would have liked it to have been retained. What we did was that we got the fight out, that those under the age of 18 who can't get anything anywhere else still have a performance they can get when they're under 18. The one they get has been halved. But just to return to what the starting point of a production school is: It is true that they use it to produce as an educational tool. However, it is an educational effort to prepare young people for a competence-giving youth education. That is the purpose. It's not the job in itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214102533	Then it's mr. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214102536	Thank you. Quite a lot of uncertainty has been created about the retirement age of the future. If you listened to yesterday's debate, you could hear that the only thing the Prime Minister would guarantee was that it would not have to be raised by at least four more years. After all, that was a promise. But now the government has created a new government base. We have a so-called three-clover government, and there is no doubt as to what the government thinks. If you listen to the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, you can hear that the retirement age must be increased. As I have said, the Left, with the Prime Minister in the lead, has said that it will at least be guaranteed that it will not be raised by another four years. But that leaves some of a gap, and if you read the government base, you can see that the supply of work must be increased quite considerably. So my question to Dansk Folkeparti and Dansk Folkeparti's rapporteur is: Now that the government, led by the finance minister, presents a new 2025 plan and Dansk Folkeparti with the finance rapporteur, is invited to coffee in the Ministry of Finance, what would you say when the government says: Yes, we have a government basis where we want to increase the work offer. Will the Danish People's Party help to increase retirement age?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214102646	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214102648	Then I think we will say: well, that's why you came up to 80 billion. kr. Now it's not 6 months, now it's 12 months. I don't know, but you could imagine. The amount of available funds has also increased significantly in the new government base compared to what it was in the old government base. And then it has to be said that this is also a little the policy of easy solutions. Because it's easy to screw this up. You can just put it into a spreadsheet: What do you get out of a month? If you withdraw it one month, it gives so much money, six months gives so many, 12 months gives so many, etc. We do not want to do that. We have an agreement on the retirement age. We're on target for that. It must be implemented. So in the near future we do not want to look at raising the retirement age at all other than what has been agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214102729	Sir. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214102730	So the answer is no and the rapporteur nods to raise the retirement age in this way. What are other ways?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214102745	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214102746	It is not to say that there is a door open and that you could go in and look at it. Well, we don't want to raise the retirement age. But it is just to say that we are also a little afraid that we will see that we are doing it further in order to have more room for manoeuvre. It is also interesting to know what the money is for. It may also be that you do not agree with that either. I imagine there might be some disagreement about that. But we're standing where we've been all along. We stand at the goal of the withdrawal reform, which we think is a good piece of political work, where we also manage to live longer. Then I would also like to say about the many discussions that have taken place here about making special arrangements for worn-out and all sorts of other things, that it is just a new bureaucracy. There are plenty of schemes which, as worn out, can be withdrawn from the labour market. Now we need a new system if you are a pensioner and you are not to be included in this. So we do not want to change the rules that we know today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214102834	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214102837	Thank you very much. I heard correctly that in the rapporteur's municipality 75% has been excluded. by the cash benefits recipients from the cash benefits ceiling? Then the rapporteur said he was proud of the Finance Act. How can one be proud of a financial law that clearly reduces the conditions for people on sickness benefits? Because that's what's happening. The government and the Danish People's Party will remove approx. 15,000 insured persons are entitled to sickness benefit, half of whom are dependants. It costs each small 4,000 kroner. At first reading, the rapporteur admitted that this is a deterioration for those concerned. Nevertheless, the rapporteur supports the proposal. Can we now get a factual and understandable explanation of why this is being done?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214102928	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214102929	I would like to say that we think that both the Finance Act for 2016 and 2017 are really good financial laws, and it is particularly good for 2017 because we are building on the good foundation that was from 2016, that is, the year we are going out of now. So we're very proud of the 2017 Finance Act... no doubt about it. We are. In relation to the exception, I would say that it is not 75%, as I remember, not because we are discussing local politics. It is about 63 per cent, and it is actually slightly below the national average compared to those who are exempt from the ceiling on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214103001	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214103004	Thank you. So 63 percent. the recipients of cash benefits in the rapporteur's municipality are exempt from the ceiling on cash benefits. Thank you for that information. I didn't get an explanation. In other words, the conditions of some sick persons insured with sickness insurance are reduced. It was admitted that it was a deterioration. Why do we contribute to such a deterioration that affects people who are in a difficult situation for many? They are on sick leave for a long time, but now they are losing their entitlement to a holiday allowance. Can we not just say that it is antisocial, because in the same financial law we are helping to give some additional tax cuts and to give more money to a group of people who already have so much. But apparently it has to be, among other things. is financed by reducing the conditions of long-term sickness. It's antisocial. Does the rapporteur have a better word for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214103101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214103102	Yeah, I do, and we don't think it is either. The most important thing to discuss is that when you are ill, you have to get well. That's what's supposed to drive us all... now there's gonna be grint from down there... but it's just because the discussion you have on Enhedslisten's side is always about how we can keep people longer on passive support. It's just a completely reversed discussion to have. It is about the fact that when you are on passive support, what are the tools we need so that you can get out and be self-supporting? Why aren't more people using partial health reports? Why do we not use more of the tools available to enable those on sickness benefit to get out and have a link with the labour market for a period of time? We all know that after three months of sickness benefit it will be very difficult to get back into the labour market. That's why they're some other tools. It's another discussion we need, and DF doesn't just want to look at the sick on the daily allowance and then say: you're an expense. But so this discussion doesn't mean we're actually gonna cut the whole picture very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214103158	Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214103201	The Danish People's Party will again be voting this year to save on our youth education programmes, in other words all our vocational training programmes and all our high schools, and it hits the hardest places in the country where we have the smallest educational institutions, for example. Ribe and Tønder. Therefore, I would like to ask the Danish People's Party: Why are you taking opportunities from young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214103227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214103228	I am very pleased that we have been able to find 150 million this year. kr., which is actually what you have to find at the vocational schools. We all go and say that there are more people who have to take a vocational school education, which is why we have found 150 million with the 2017 Finance Act. kr., which will be returned to vocational schools, so it will be a zero sum game in relation to the amount they will find this year. Yeah, that's 300 million. kr., for there are also 150 million. kr. from last year, but it is in relation to the new money they have to find. So we have to say that we share the view of the government that we must do things better tomorrow than yesterday, and we must do so in relation to education. If, for example, we look at vocational schools, we can see that you have had a long period of time, when you have looked very much at the taximeter subsidy, and if we look at the equity of the vocational schools, we can see that it is very high, but the implementation rate has been very low. That is why I am very pleased that we have jointly made a vocational school reform, where we are now saying: who is going to the vocational schools? You cannot just keep driving around in a hamster wheel, and there is also a ceiling on how many vocational schools you can take, and it already turns out that fewer people are falling out of vocational schools. And that means that the money we put into vocational schools actually also means that some young people get an education instead of putting some money into a teaching system in order to have a teaching system. We do not have it for the sake of the system we have for the sake of young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214103342	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214103343	But listen to me: In the Danish People's Party you talk so much about our rural areas, and when you have to distribute the money, what do you choose to do? Then you take the money from our youth education, which is what gives young people the opportunity, and it hits the hardest places in the country where our educational institutions are small. Can't the Danish People's Party see the strangeness of it and that what you are doing in your actions is taking opportunities from the young people who live around the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214103413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214103414	If we can make an agreement that youth education should be in the province, I would say that this is an interesting proposal and that the Danish People's Party will be constructive in it. I'm afraid that's not the way it is. Unfortunately, we have seen a very large centralisation of education for the larger cities. But apart from that, it is also important that we have a training sector where we always get the most out of it, that is, a high quality at a competitive price, and that we do not get too much attention because it quickly becomes such a little business-oriented thing that it is a matter of having the training. What is interesting is that you have an education where the quality is high and where as many people as possible get out and are ready to move on to the labour market and become self-supporting. And there we agree that education should also help to look at: how do we do better tomorrow than how we did it yesterday? And that's what you do. in a drill like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214103503	Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214103506	In Economics Udvisning there is such a calculation technique in which a public consumption growth of 0.8%, and one might think that would make Dansk Folkeparti really happy, as you just went to the election for a growth of 0.8%. But when you look, you can understand that the government only wants 0.3 per cent. of this growth should actually go to public consumption, the rest should go to, among others. tax relief. I just want to hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party whether that is what was meant by the Danish People's Party when they went to the polls for a growth of 0.8%.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214103541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214103542	It is true that we would like to see small, moderate growth in public consumption, and we have also calculated that it is about 0.8%. What's just interesting is what you spend the money on. It's not interesting just to use 0.8%. When we had the large flows of refugees, we also had a growth of 0.8%. and even a little bit more, and then we should be happy, but we weren't, because we didn't spend the money on the right thing. So there is no doubt that having growth in the public sector is not an end in itself. The aim is to have growth in the public sector where we are. in the area of the elderly, and why so? That's because we're getting older, and that's why there's more care needs. And it is in health because we live longer with our diseases. We have also become more skilled, and it costs some extra money. So it is in the areas we see that there is a need for increased growth. At the same time, I would like to say that we would like to see a reduction in taxes on the lowest incomes if we can find room for manoeuvre, so that we can also get more for being a driver or sitting in the box or elsewhere. We would also be positive about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214103644	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214103646	When I ask about that, it is because we have this bizarre cross from the new government, that is to say, that we want to raise the retirement age, that we want to pursue an economic policy in which the money in the municipalities cannot follow what the rapporteur himself just described, namely, among other things. the increasing number of elderly people. That is what we want to do, because we want to ease top tax, to ease stock taxation and the inheritance tax. This is all something you have to say for the benefit of the richest Danes. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party again, because I do not think it was a very clear answer: can the Danish People's Party live with a growth of 0.8%, where only the 0.3% go to welfare, and the rest should go to tax if it looks as it does right now on the basis of the concrete proposals from the government? Can the Danish People's Party live with the fact that most of this is going to smoke in the pockets of the most wealthy Danes? Can the Danish People's Party sit at a negotiating table where it is the agenda?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214103739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214103740	I don't know if it's the most affluent, i.e. that someone who goes to work and has a monthly salary of DKK 21,000 gets a tax relief. Are the wealthiest and the richest the wicked; those who earn a lot of money? That is not how we view it, I would like to say. We are not a party which, as such, is opposed to tax cuts, but we can be against the source of funding for them. And I believe that a great many of the money that is being put up here must come by raising the retirement age. And if you are against funding, you cannot be to spend the money either. That is why it is enough that the vast majority of the sources of funding we are going to accept will go to something other than tax cuts. But it is just to say that we do not believe that people who go to work every day should deliver as much as possible. We believe that they should be allowed to keep as much as possible while at the same time maintaining the welfare society that we know today with equal access for all.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214103825	Sir. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214103828	I therefore think that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party will be somewhat unclear and vague. The rapporteur talks about the fact that it depends on what we spend the money on, etc. However, can the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party not confirm that if we confine ourselves to having a growth rate of 0.3 per cent in the public sector, it will slowly, but surely, mean less warm hands in the care of the elderly, in home help and in our hospitals? Well, of the calculations we've got done, we can see that it's about 14,000 fewer public employees in 2025 if you keep doing this. Is it the policy of the Danish People's Party to continue with such low growth so that there will be less and less warm hands for the weakest in public and in society?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214103919	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214103920	No, it is not, but it is the policy of social democracy. That's kind of what you went to the polls for. With the plan that lay then, one went to the polls to continue the minus growth that one had during Helle Thorning-Schmidt and Bjarne Corydon. That is what the Social Democratic Party voted for. I would just like to say from the Danish People's Party that we are happy and proud that for the second year in a row we have reversed the trend as it was the Social Democracy that was in power. We appreciate that. Then it is true that we have a target that we want growth of 0.8%. We are also really pleased that we have a government that consists of three parties... some went to elections on zero growth, others went to elections on minus growth... which, after all, with good meetings and persuasion skills say: Well, it is true that there is a need for a little growth in the public sector. It has been said 0.3 per cent. We think that's a little bit. But we think it is really positive. And we just have to say that the fact is that in 2016 there has been a growth in public consumption and more people have been employed. In 2017, there will be a growth in public consumption and more will be employed. That's a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214104019	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214104021	There the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party became a little more sharp and more precise, for which I should like to thank him. Let us say, then, that the Danish People's Party's financial rapporteur, who is now on the platform, is in negotiations and has to choose whether to grant more champagne tax relief to the very richest on the Rungsted Coast, or whether to ensure a growth in the public sector, which means that we can continue to have proper care for our elderly in nursing homes and in home help etc. Will the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party give priority to welfare rather than to champagne tax relief?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214104056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214104057	I just can't stand that rhetoric, that is, that tax relief is simply evil. There are so many Danes and I do not know where the rapporteur is going. So I know a lot of people who make less than 25,000 kroner. a month. So it is not rich people who live north of Copenhagen and sail in a speedboat and drive in an open sports car. It's people getting up at 2:00 a.m. 5 in the morning and have 11⁄2 hours to work, and then they do their job and come home quarter past 6 in the evening and have to start cooking for their children. I do not think it is awful if they are allowed to keep a little bit more of the money they make. We don't think that's awful. It is not evil people who have those salaries, and it is not champagne reform and everything else. It's a misguided rhetoric. We are not opposed to tax cuts. We're just looking at how to finance tax cuts. That's what's interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214104142	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214104145	Thank you for your speech, which highlighted some of the things that the Danish People's Party welcomes in the Finance Act. I just think that there were a number of things that the rapporteur did not mention and that I really would like to hear a little more in depth. In addition to some of the things mentioned by the rapporteur, a number of very unfortunate cuts are being made in connection with this financial law. We have already heard about the production school pupils who have reduced their benefits. That's not good. We can see that the Labour Inspectorate is being cut down as far as I can see by about 40 million. kr. in 2017. We can see that the job rotation scheme is a very good arrangement to get unemployed people into work. We can see that the adult apprenticeship system, which is therefore an opportunity for older people to train or retrain for a job, is being cut. We can see that vocational schools have to hand in money, and then there's this green harvester on the whole educational system. Why have the Danish People's Party voted for these cuts, which are very much affecting those you might call ordinary workers in Denmark? Why has the Danish People's Party simply not announced to the government at the financial negotiations that there were other places to find that money, for example. in the layers of the population that have more than they can almost use?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214104313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214104314	I would like to make a correction concerning the vocational schools. What they will find in 2017, we will compensate for. I mean, the 150 million. kr., they must find new money in 2017, we compensate for. There's not gonna be a cut. It is true that they so regularly have to find them that they should find last year. But there will be 150 million. kr. to vocational schools. As far as the other points mentioned by the rapporteur are concerned, I would like to say that this is a whole. But again, I would also like to say that the intention of many of these schemes has been to manage what they need in the municipalities. Show me your grants and show me what doesn't work? We know that from in here. If you raise the subsidy to something, that's what the municipalities use. In 2018, this new refund bust comes down and gets 20%. in reimbursement at the end, but a high refund at the beginning. It's pretty much already running. The municipalities have the opportunity to use these tools now, and so they have the money for it, because they get a refund of 80%. To start with, they go down the stairs to 20 percent. So with regard to many of the things that we have provided in the past, the municipalities now have the best opportunities to see what works in the individual municipality for the individual citizen, and then to get to grips with the tools. I really hope that they wake up a little bit out there looking at what is best for their citizens and what is best for their municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214104434	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214104436	But now it's actually the case that some of these schemes you cut down on are some of those that we know work. There's evidence that they work around. So maybe that wasn't the best answer. In fact, my question is more fundamental, because when Enhedslisten went to finance negotiations, we started by going through the financial bill, and then we tried to find the deterioration that hit the regular Danes, the ordinary, hard-working Danes, inside and outside the labour market. Then we went up to the government for the first meeting and said it had to go away, and then we started negotiating. Could it not be a source of inspiration for the Danish People's Party in future financial law negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214104517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214104519	First of all, it was another time when there was much more deterioration because you were driving with negative growth, and we haven't done that in these two years. That is why it was probably another exercise that Enhedslisten faced and which was not succeeded with very well as a support party either. The Enhedslisten, during the whole period as a support party, agreed that each Finance Act ended up with a reduction in growth. I can just say that both 2016 and 2017 have now resulted in a small, moderate growth in public spending, and we are quite happy about that. Then it is the case that adjustments have to be made out there. But because something loses a little bit of subsidies, why should the municipalities not continue to use it if it works? We simply believe they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214104556	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214104559	Thank you. I would actually like to congratulate the rapporteur on his honesty with regard to the dignified billionaire. In fact, I noted that the rapporteur said that the dignity billion is intended not at all to care for the elderly in everyday life, but for everything else, for example. driving a bus or having a party or a life with content. From the projection of the number of older people compared to the municipalities' finances we know that there will be a shortage of 1⁄2 billion. kr. in the care of the elderly only in order to maintain the level of care available today, or rather 1 billion. kr., if you also look at the population projection. It is a paradox, I think, because I think that the order of the factors is not always irrelevant. I would, for example, like: I would like to know whether the rapporteur prefers bus tours or dry pants.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214104700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214104701	This is the kind of debate that gets a little weird. First of all, it should be borne in mind that good things also happened under the previous government. There were also 1 billion. kr. to the elderly area. That's the block grant now. Then there's a dignity billion. That's 2,000 million. kr. a year, which has come out to the municipalities. So it's not like there's no money coming. In other words, both the previous government and the current government have massively sent money to the municipalities, which is why it is of course important that the municipalities also spend it in this area. There you can fear a little that, when the money has not been earmarked sufficiently from the outset, it has been spent on everything else. But then I would also like to say that for us, care for the elderly is not just about dry pants. It is a completely failed debate to talk about dry pants. So it's not a dignified life just to lie in bed 24-7 with dry pants, because then you're on the safe side, not at all. You have to have a life of content, even if you have become a caregiver. You have to know yourself when you get up in the morning and look in the mirror. You have to have some experiences. It's called the eating situation, and I'm about to vomit. I'm sorry, I'm saying it. This isn't a eating situation. It is a situation where you have a community where you eat some food and where you enjoy yourself. The rest of us spend hours on it, and because you're older, you suddenly have to sit in a eating situation. It's not an eating situation. It is also an experience to eat food, and I certainly hope that some of the dignity billions will also be spent on it, namely that you have content in life.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214104818	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214104820	But the dignity billion presupposes, of course, that the municipalities apply for money for different activities. Firstly, it is enormously bureaucratic, it costs a lot of resources. And secondly, it also means that it does not lead to money in everyday life. So the picture drawn by the rapporteur on the care of the elderly, which I also agree with, is still a fact. I agree that this is extremely unworthy, and we will only solve this if we add more funds to care for the elderly in the order of one billion. kr. Just to maintain the level we have today. How will the rapporteur help to resolve this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214104858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214104859	Now we've got 2 billion. kr., and there will be an additional 460 million. kr. in 2017, so it doesn't even work out so bad. One thing that is also important to say is that first and foremost the dignity billion is not an application pool. It's money you get out, compared to how many older you have. Nor does it come over the block subsidy, it comes according to a key: how many older people are there in the municipality? That's how much money you get. Then it is true that you have to write what you have spent the money on, but you should not apply for the money. It's actually done quite openly. There is not much bureaucracy in relation to the dignity billion, it is almost non-existent. We have made it very unbureaucratic for the municipalities. But of course there has to be an accountant's endorsement showing what you have spent the money on so you don't spend it on everything else. But it is not very bureaucratic. What is important is just that we have another discussion on care for the elderly. In the municipalities there has been youth policy and child policy and everything else, but there has not been an ageing policy, and that is what we are getting now: a policy of dignity.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214104955	Thank you, sir. René Christensen. There are no more of his colleagues who feel challenged in this round. And we move on to the next rapporteur, Mr. Jacob Jensen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214105014	Thank you for that, President. I appreciate that we get it all in. Denmark is a good country. It is not a perfect country, but it is actually one of the best that exists. So we must also take good care of Denmark. We need to secure the future for Denmark not just for next year, which is the financial agreement per year. definition does, but also for the next generation. We must act with due care, because the world is changing all the time, and Denmark must also constantly as a society adapt to the new challenges, but also the new opportunities it offers. We have to think in terms of things, because things are connected. Denmark must be a country that is linked both socially and geographically. I would like to thank the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives for a very fine and constructive process in connection with the creation of the 2017 Finance Law Agreement, which is drawing Denmark in a very positive direction. Again this year we four parties have proved that tax relief and welfare benefits can go hand in hand, and indeed they are each other's prerequisites, I would argue. As you know, the Finance Act provides lower taxes on cars, and the land is also frozen for the benefit and benefit of homeowners. At the same time, with the Finance Act, there is a significant focus on e.g.: the elderly, where there is a focus on older food and a follow-up to last year's dignity billions. There is a significant focus on health, among other things. with a cancer plan IV that has our great attention. With the Finance Act, the children's area will also be given priority as an important part of our overall welfare society. Security concerns not only financial security but also security about being able to walk freely and safely on the streets and alleys. That is why I am very pleased that, with the financial law agreement, we also have a strong focus on the police sector, among other things. by giving the police new opportunities with an increased number of police officers and the new system of police officers, as well as increasing the penalties in various areas, among others. in relation to illegal possession of weapons. Finally, as last year, we also have a strong focus on continuing to control immigration to Denmark. Only if money is earned first can we invest in education, research, welfare, new railways, new roads, better business opportunities through lower taxes and taxes, new jobs, support for socially vulnerable groups, etc. My kids are currently getting it's Christmas time... a package in a package calendar every morning, and sometimes there's such a small chocolate coin wrapped in such fine gold paper. One child hastens to eat the chocolate coin in the morning, because that is what he feels best about, while the other child saves it for the afternoon. Funny enough, the guy who ate the chocolate coin in the morning sometimes gets sour in the afternoon, when he doesn't have the chocolate coin to have a good time with in connection with watching the Neisse gang in Greenland. I am then trying to teach them that the chocolate coin can only be eaten once, and I am also trying to teach them that the real money can only be used once. In fact, it is going very well for the children to understand it, but something worse it looks in here, where this simple child learning is not quite as easy to understand as one might think it is. In any case, there are a number of golden promises in line: the removal of a ceiling on cash aid, 225-hour rule, integration benefit, more money for culture, higher development aid, more for education, more for older people, more for children, more for everything. There are very few groups, I think, about someone who should not somehow participate in public support if it is up to the good colleagues on the red side of the divide. That is quite fine, and we could share many of those ambitions if we could at the same time point out where the money for this expenditure should come from. The country's largest party, the Social Democratic Party, is most focused on telling about all the things you don't want to be part of. You haven't even bothered to make your own proposal into a financial law for 2017, so there is no coherent idea of what policy you really want to pursue. You dare not drop that onto a piece of paper, and it is obvious for fear that it can then be exhibited that there is no connection. It's sad, of course. Of course, it is easier to criticize others, but as you know it is also the case that when you point to others, then there are also three fingers that point back to yourself. I think it is a pity that you do not want to put forward your own policy. We have not even done anything special with regard to the amendments that we have already mentioned, in other words, we have not tabled any amendments in relation to the many things that we criticise the agreement for containing. For I am sure that the Workers' Association's Enterprise Council or other good forces could easily take to dust • Fair Solution 2020 • Together on Denmark • off and update some of the proposals, for example. In addition, in the case of an additional 12 minutes at work, this is probably equivalent to about 1 year over a working day as one went to the polls at one time. Or you could find some of the proposals made by the Social Democratic Party, among others. supported by SF, on savings on cash benefits and reliefs in top tax and reliefs in corporation tax. Perhaps you could also look at the policy pursued by the Social Democratic Party until 18-19 months ago, where a policy of minus growth was pursued in the municipalities or where reforms were made that cut down on the SU. So there are plenty of proposals that are not very old and that have probably not been distanced from the debate along the way. That is not what we wanted to do. It has been wanted to criticize that I have taken note of it. But as you try to find out what you mean, we work hard to create a society where it should pay to work; where it should pay to make an effort for ourselves and for your family and therefore also for your country. It must be a country where there is security on the streets and streets; where the police can be present, also by the crimes which one might say may not always have been just hung out in the media, such as: burglary in private homes. It must be a country where we have a robust SU system and where there are free high-quality education. There must be an infrastructure that allows the workforce to be mobile not only around the largest station cities, but across the country. It must be a country where values are being created that will give us better money to deal with the vulnerable groups, so to speak, those who really need Community help, and not all of us who, in some way, are more or less directly receiving public support. Denmark is not a perfect country, but it is one of the best that exists. And the 2017 Finance Act makes it even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214105723	Thank you. The first brief remark is from Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214105732	Thank you. I would like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm, in relation to the challenges that have been faced with the Togfonden DK, that the Finance Act 2017 has written in, that the government agrees in such a way that there is a significant majority of over 100 mandates behind the Togfonden DK, that the Togfonden DK has been set in motion, and that the Finance Act 2017 initiates the projects under the Finance Act 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214105805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214105807	In any event, I can confirm that, as Mr. René Christensen also refers to the fact that the Finance Act sets in motion what is called Phase 1, and that is also what is being financed by the Finance Act for 2017. It is, as I recall, a stretch in North Jutland and across West Funen. And it is also clear from the agreement that later this spring the new Minister for Transport will convene discussions on how to proceed from there. That's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214105833	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214105835	[Sound emission]... it is, of course, because our new Minister of Transport has been out at some point and such a little overwhelmed, one could get a feeling that the Train Fund DK's stage 1. I have to say, however, that there has been a closed consultation, but it was just closed, which is why this did not affect the ramp. But I am glad that the rapporteur can confirm that stage 1, i.e. 13.5 billion. kr. in Train Fund DK, is rolling out now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214105902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214105904	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214105909	The next brief remark is from Nicolai Wammen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214105913	Thank you. Thank you, too, to the rapporteur for his speech. One issue on which the rapporteur did not spend much time is the question of when we should retire in Denmark. But this is probably because it has been incredibly difficult to get answers from the government about what the retirement age really should be. When the government of Lars Løkke Rasmussen II came up with its proposal, the age limit had to be raised by 1⁄2 years, and now it is completely fluttering in the wind whether one should work 1 year, 2 years or 3 years longer. And so I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left today to answer the question: what is the government's plan for how much longer the Danes will have to work in order to afford the plan that has been put forward here in connection with the government basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214110006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214110009	I don't know if you can say it's flapping in the wind. Sir. Nicolai Wammen refers to our proposal, that is to say the proposal of the then Left Government, that one should look at adapting, one might say, the time of retirement with what also the Social Democratic Party is involved in adopting in here, namely that one should be able to expect an average of 14 1⁄2 years of retirement. Mr. Nicolai Wammen's party voted. And then we are in the happy situation that life expectancy has also increased, and that is good for all those who live longer. It has also increased faster than was expected. And that is in respect of the agreement that Mr. Nicolai Wammen has cast votes to the effect that the then Left Government played out that it was supposed to be 1⁄2 years. As Mr. Nicolai Wammen well knows, it is also clear from the new government basis, that this is an issue to which we will return shortly in the new year. It is well above my pay limits to assess when it should be, but I note, of course, that this is also reflected in the new government programme. So, of course, I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214110108	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214110113	Just a few months ago the message from the Prime Minister was that it was 1⁄2 years that they wanted to add to the working time already agreed and that the Danes in good faith have arranged their lives for. People who have been working and dragging and who have been on the labour market for many years were told that they should be there 1⁄2 years longer. Now I hear the rapporteur say that it may be more. The rapporteur cannot rule out the fact that it is not half a year longer, but one year or, for that matter, two years or three years longer. The rapporteur of the Left is here today for a party which, in the context of government, stands at the end of the day for having created a government base of 86 pages dealing with things such as which campsites are to be sold, but one does not tell the Danes openly and honestly how much longer the Left thinks they should work. Therefore my call is: put the drawer plan on the table so that the Danes know what they can count on.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214110217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214110219	Even for Mr. Nicolai Wammen is not an unknown drug to look at the time of retirement and retirement. I also mentioned in my speech that one had operated with the famous 12 minutes that corresponds to an extra year on the labour market. I guess it was also at a time when you could see that life expectancy was increasing. During the then Left Government we played out for six months because we thought it was just dramatic enough with one year, which at one time was what the Social Democracy operated on. So that's kind of why we have to discuss these things. I would very much like to hear whether there are other proposals than the one on the 12 minutes that you would think would be a good idea to look at. But we just think it is important that we also respect the agreements that have been reached and an agreement has been reached that a pension period of 141⁄2 years can be expected. We can see that the groups on the labour market are not among those who are just about to retire; there is a huge amount of progress, and we are perhaps talking about 8, 9, 10 years before there is a change. We can also see that those groups are not exactly the same as those about which the discussion about the worn-out groups is about. It is a completely different type of group that we are talking about, which can and would like to contribute a little more, so that we get better advice for those who will then be worn out, or for other vulnerable groups who need the helping hand of the community. That is the point of that proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214110337	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214110343	Thank you, President. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Especially in the last year's time, we have heard a lot about the major and serious growth and productivity crisis that we had in Denmark. This summer I was also invited to a major summit at Marienborg, where the Prime Minister, with deep frowns, could tell that Denmark would lag behind our neighbouring countries. Now it is the case that there has been a new national accounts which show that this is not the case at all. That's nice. Of course, it is also a bit annoying when you have had to use the burning platform from the government to try to make new cuts and new tax gifts for those who have the most, and higher retirement age for the Danes. It has not been the case that the government has held a new summit on the basis of the new figures and has said that now the 2025 plan is being called off. Perhaps you could have expected that. However, can the rapporteur not just confirm that when the Prime Minister at the Marienborg Summit, among other things, comes to an end? Did he say that the growth in productivity in Denmark is so poor that only Spain and Italy are worse off than Denmark, so was it vertically wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214110455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214110458	No, I can't confirm that was vertically wrong, but I kind of agree with and share Mr. Pelle Dragsted's joy that things are better in Denmark. But that is the whole point of it, namely that a burgeoning recovery must be supported, I must stress: a burgeoning recovery must be supported. It's not something that comes on its own. Of course, many things come from abroad. We are a small and open economy, and if things typically go better in Sweden and Germany and the United States, then everything else will go better in Denmark as well. But the problem is, among other things, that the bottlenecks that we can already see in the labour market will only increase. In this way, we are back to the question that Mr. Nicolai Wammen posed just now, and as Mr. Pelle Dragsted also revolved around, namely the withdrawal time, that is to say to get more unemployed hands into the labour market, and to get those who are there to contribute a little more in order to get that recovery supported precisely so that we can get revenue to take care of those who really need community help. That is, in fact, the policy. This does not change the fact that productivity in Denmark can easily improve. There are places in Denmark where productivity is going really well • Let me just mention the regions, because things are going really well there. But there are other places where we can get better.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214110606	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214110609	But now that this productivity crisis has been used over and over again as the argument that our welfare should be cut, as the argument that new tax gifts should be given to business, as the argument that the Danes should be forced to work longer, would it not be very fair when it turns out that the argument has fallen completely apart to be honest and say: when we want to do this, it is not about the productivity crisis or anything else; it is about looking after some narrow interests for those who have the most in our society? Wouldn't it suit the government to say that? Because what the rapporteur says is not correct. Denmark is not in the bottom, Denmark is in the top. We are approaching the United States when it comes to productivity; a country that was highlighted by the Productivity Commission as a model.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214110659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214110703	Well, I do not take over the premise that it should be about narrow interests. This is about Denmark; it's about Denmark as a coherent country; it's about us doing some things now, some relatively modest actions in the big context, which will have a good and great and strong effect seen towards a larger horizon. That's what this is about. What does that mean? Yes, it will mean that we will have a stronger Denmark, we will have a richer Denmark, and how it will be translated we can of course discuss politically, one might say. But the fact that we have a richer Denmark is, of course, the prerequisite that we have something to discuss and something to make policy for, so that we can support the groups that we would like to support and invest in the areas in which we would like to invest. Because if we have zero, we also have zero to use.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214110747	Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen who has to find her microphone, because she is the one who has a brief comment now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214110754	Thank you, President. In his speech, the rapporteur said that Denmark must be a country that is linked both socially and geographically. However, is the rapporteur not aware that with some of the proposals made by both the former Left Government, also in connection with the 2025 plan, but also quite specifically in the Finance Act that we are discussing today, there is a social imbalance and a geographical imbalance, both when you look at who gets something out of a freeze on the ground, for example, and who can afford to buy those cars where you will get a financial gain with the registration fee, etc.? Does the rapporteur not agree that there is a geographical and social imbalance built into the financial law we are discussing today?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214110846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214110850	No, I'm not in on that now I can't remember the number completely in the head, but it's out to the third decimal if I'm not mistaken, or the second decimal. I mean, it's 0.04 that the Gini coefficient is being changed in relation to the finance agreement that lies. Well, we're out in the margins if you look at that part of it, and it's like what's usually the yardstick, you could say, for the equality discussion in this context. That it should have a geographical imbalance should then be in relation to that, that one can then have a better opportunity also in the sparsely populated parts of the country to get jobs. And that, for example, infrastructure is also made in places other than just around the largest station cities, which I know is very close to SF compared to the hour model. And we also have other measures. We have previously relocated state jobs, supported the food industry and other things, and thus we have just helped to support a geographical similarity in this country, unlike others, which primarily focuses on the fact that it is the big cities that draw. It is, but we just think that Denmark should be linked, both socially and geographically, and I think that the financial agreement here is an expression of this in all modesty.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214110954	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214110958	All of the many, many consultations we have had with various ministers on the impact of these proposals have shown a clear picture, and that is very natural because where are the most expensive houses? Who can buy the most expensive cars? Who gets the most from the fact that the inheritance tax is relieved and the other tax cuts? There is a clear picture that it is in Østdanmark and in the eastern part of Jutland, while you can see in relation to the house prices that are in North Jutland, in West Jutland etc. that you don't get anything out of this. Now the Gini coefficient is limited in relation to income etc., but when we look at it, also which municipalities are there, for example. If there are many people on cash benefits who are also affected by this, then the result is just that there is a built-in massive geographical imbalance and also a social bias in this. I would like to ask a brief question about another quote: the money can only be used once. Yes, and that is why when we put forward a proposal from the SF that is fully funded, it is because we want to spend that money once in a different way than the government wants to spend it at once and then the question is whether you give them priority to welfare or tax relief. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214111118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214111120	No, the latter is not true, because this prioritising and contrasting issue I also made a little of in my speech between welfare benefits and tax reliefs, I think that with two financial agreements in a row we have now dismantled. It goes hand in hand, it is each other's prerequisites, one of which can help to support the creation of a revenue base that can help give the other a helping hand. In relation to the first part of the question of geography and the imbalance, I would like to say that, among other things, this is true. is one of the reasons why I know that this is a minor part, but I think that for the municipalities it is a major part • that with the financial law agreement, like Mr. René Christensen mentioned, suggesting to put an extra pool of 300 million. kr., I think it is, for disadvantaged municipalities. We can also see, with the model of refunding the overpaid property tax, where the wrong valuations have been greatest, the most wrong ones, you can say, and that is one of them. in some of the outskirts, Odsherred, Lolland and other places where you can see that they have been greatest, and thus the benefits will also be greatest for those people there if that model is going to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214111219	A question and an answer cannot be too thorough, but it may take too long. It is Mrs Josephine Fock of the Alternative who has the next brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214111230	Thank you. Then I will try to stay within the speaking time. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I noted that the rapporteur used the term due diligence, in other words that due care has been taken into account in the government's draft budget. I do not agree with that, because it is clear that the alternative has the perspective that, if we are to have due care, we must start to act in relation to green investments, investment in green technology, investment in education. So how can Mr. Jacob Jensen says that there is due diligence when we know that with the government's financial bill we emit more CO2 How does this relate to our Paris agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214111317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214111321	It can be said that a parallel process to the Finance Act has been the whole of the PESO discussion and the abolition of the PRS tax, which we are also involved in, and which a broad majority in the Folketing is involved in. I am really happy about that, because it is part of it that we can convert our production, also in a way so that it can be food production; it can be other production; it can take place in a country where it is most climate-friendly, and there know CO2 That is to say that if you have to have some kind of production, it can be food; it may be other, it is most appropriate for the sake of the climate that the production will then be put in a country where production produces the least climate-impression, and where the development of technology and other things, which we otherwise live well and thoroughly on and export afterwards to other countries, which can then become almost as skilled as us, can also take place in Denmark, by precisely testing some of these things here in Denmark, instead of tax or other obstacles in the way, so that the production and thus the research and development will take place in Poland, Germany or quite elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214111430	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214111435	However, that does not change the fact that we have a commitment to the Paris agreement that we do not meet, as does the UN's 17 sustainability targets. How can the rapporteur say that we are living up to, for example? Paragraph 10 of the UN's 17 sustainability targets, which is about increasing equality when we cut cash aid, removing the 225-hour rule and creating an integration benefit that is lower? I find it difficult to see how these things are connected and how it is that due diligence makes us live up to our international obligations.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214111508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214111513	I mentioned this earlier to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. I'm sorry I don't remember the third decimal, but I think the Gini coefficient is changing by 0.04%. as an influence in relation to the Chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen nods, I see, so it must be true how the financial agreement affects inequality. So I guess that's the discussion. But things are also connected, and the fact that we are creating a better basis for lifting people into the labour market opens up some of the bottlenecks that we can see now, so that more can come along, including, as Mr. René Christensen mentioned earlier, with a ceiling of cash aid, which seems to work, so that more people come in and get employment, then helps to ensure that those people who would otherwise have been socially excluded are included in the community, and I think that is a social boost, thus helping to create a better social cohesion in our country.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214111558	Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214111603	Thank you. While these negotiations are going on, we have a very, very terrible situation in Aleppo, Syria, which I think affects all members of the Folketing deeply, all parties. It's hell on earth, and it's turned into a real death trap. In this situation, I think we also agree that as much help is needed, as much relief for civilians as possible, and there is no doubt that Denmark is already contributing much, and I would like to sign for that, but there is also no doubt that the need is very great. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left about the fifties that the government has made and even if we have significantly fewer asylum seekers in Denmark than the last projection showed, namely approx. 6,000 instead of 10,000, there will be no more money for development aid, which could otherwise be used to help the victims in Syria. Was it not time that the generous mine might be put on and said that the money for the fewer asylum seekers coming to Denmark should benefit the refugees who are currently in hell on earth, and then all the different quirky calculation methods, which are now suddenly put on the table, would be dropped. We have called the Finance Minister for tomorrow for consultation on the issue, but it might be that, in view of the developments in the situation, the Left will already allow the new situation to benefit the refugees and will take the money saved on fewer asylum seekers in Denmark and say that we are sending them to Aleppo right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214111739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214111740	I fully agree with Mr. Martin Lidegaard in that situation is quite awful. I don't think there's anyone in here who disagrees with us. But that is why I am really glad that the Finance Act actually sends and allocates an historically large amount of money... never as much money before as with this Finance Act........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I think it's in the vicinity of a billion. kr. extra beyond the already historically high level, so we are at a historically high level where Denmark contributes to the community effort, including to Syria's neighbourhoods. In addition to giving historical money, that is one thing, there are also the people that we are helping to send out, and they are also fucking talented, and we get a lot out of the effort that Denmark is making both economically and humanly. I think we can be proud of this, and, in general terms, we are at the top of the list now, but at least at the top, let me put it this way, of all the countries of the world, one of the few countries in the world that meet the UN's objectives, in relation to the amount of foreign aid to be given in relation to its overall economy. So I actually think we can be familiar. But I fully agree with Mr. Martin Lidegaard, and of course we can discuss this with the Minister for Finance, that is to say how the government views this situation, but I am dealing with the financial law agreement that is here, and that is what we are discussing today, and there is therefore a historically high level in relation to the neighbourhood effort, among other things. to Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214111905	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214111908	But sir... Jacob Jensen explains both the people who are fleeing from Aleppo right now but also the Danes out there how it can be that even if we get 4,000 fewer asylum seekers than the government thought a few months ago, there won't be a penny extra down to the refugees in Aleppo. Apparently, that money just eats the state, or the Treasury, for dinner. That's not fair. When we ask why no more of the money will be saved down there, we are told that it can only be calculated in 2017 and then it is too late to give the money to anyone in 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214111947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214111948	I think it is a somewhat simplistic presentation. It is clear, of course, that you must have an inventory of it before you can start to count on it, but that is the arithmetical part, and I agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Martin Lidegaard in that it is of course not relevant in this acute situation, as there are in Aleppo and other of the world's hot spots. But that is precisely why it is also so crucial that we get a financial agreement through here later today or tomorrow or when it is we vote on the one that applies and that delivers the highest level crowns and ear-wise that something Danish Parliament has ever delivered to close-range efforts. I think that is worth noting, among other things. because of the situation we have in Aleppo and in Syria, by the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214112032	Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214112038	Thank you. I would just like to make a brief comment on the previous question, namely that the calculation part is of course important in relation to the acute situation right now, where every penny can make a difference. So it's just to just back up the last one asking. Then I will jump to something else that seems less important in that light, but which, after all, affects a lot of the people who live in our country. I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on that and to acknowledge that Mr. Jacob Jensen says that it has been thought in the Left that it was too drastic to declare against retirement age if it had to be increased by one year. I believe that this shows that the rapporteur knows, after all, that this is drastic and that it is of great importance to a great many and that it will affect large groups in our labour market, which already have an experience of retirement age and life expectancy meeting each other or even crossing. So can the rapporteur not confirm that when we talk 141⁄2 years in our common wise agreement back from 2006, it is an average view that really looks very, very different, because inequality is enormous?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214112149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214112152	Well, I am glad that the Social Democrat rapporteur here confirms and still stands at the goal of an average of 141⁄2 years. At least I took the question as an expression of that. And if that is true, we must also be able to reach an agreement in common that we will then be able to live up to the agreement we agree on, precisely that we will be able to look forward to 141⁄2 years. I think that is a good thing. I have the approach to things developing. The population is evolving. We live longer. We're healthier. We're fresher. There are many who can contribute a little more, in return for us to secure substantial funds for those who cannot and those who need Community help. I think that is extremely socially balanced. It is therefore antisocial not to let people who can and will contribute a little more, be allowed to do so, and then there is not enough money to help those who really need it. I think that's antisocial. And I am glad that the Social Democratic Party here confirms that it is behind the agreement in which it is called an average of 141⁄2 years of retirement. Then we will have to take this as the starting point for the negotiations we hope will soon start.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214112251	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214112255	After all, that agreement was made on the basis of the fact that we had a pre-retirement salary. This has since been tampered with enormously. The rapporteur then has the pleasure that his party is now in a three-clover government with, among other things, one of them. Liberal Alliance, and Mr. Joachim B. Olsen went out the day before yesterday and said that he was going to abolish the post-retirement pay completely. Can the rapporteur not say a few words about how he sees this report and whether it is something that is also supported in the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214112331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214112334	I can't wait to hear Mr. Knox. Joachim B. Olsen later, and then we can appropriately ask him if he can elaborate on it. I mean, I'm just the target of the deal we've made. I am also in favour of the government base, and yes, I am very pleased to be part of a three-level government. I am not part of the government, but I am certainly part of the parliamentary basis. And this shows that we would like to increase the supply of work, including looking at the time of withdrawal, because, as I have mentioned a few times, we can see that age in our population is becoming ever higher. That's good. People get healthier and fresher, that's good too. There are more who can and will contribute a little bit more. It's also good that we get better money for those who actually need community help. That's good, too. So I think that these things are really very well connected, and I therefore welcome the announcement made here by the Social Democrats, namely that we would like to see the time of retirement run away with the agreement we have already reached, namely 141⁄2 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214112426	Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214112430	That's all very well, but it's also a bit of a chat, isn't it? Because we introduced that agreement because at that time there was an early retirement that picked up the groups that were most worn out. So, sir. Jacob Jensen knows very well that it will be a joke when he says in this way that he is happy to confirm all kinds of agreements. That post-retirement agreement wasn't made with the Social Democrats' votes, was it? The agreement reached between us was about the great social reconciliations, and at the time it was concluded there was an early retirement. As you know, there is no more of this, and that is why the agreement will end. It obviously does the same between the rapporteur and the Prime Minister, and that, on the other hand, is somewhat more surprising. Because yesterday, in Question Time, the Prime Minister would not deny that we could speak of two and three years. He would deny that one could speak in four years. Now the rapporteur stands and says that the Left thought it was just dramatic enough for one year. It is of course a little interesting for the public to know whether it is the Prime Minister or the Financial Rapporteur who is right in this regard. I have a bit of an idea as to what the pay framework is like in relation to the decision on this issue, so I would like the rapporteur to confirm that yesterday the Prime Minister would not deny that what you are going to bring in in the spring could go up to two to three years, but not four years.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214112546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214112549	Now, after all, it is not a payroll that decides that kind of thing. But joke aside, because it's an important question. When I said one year, I merely referred to what the Social Democratic Party itself has done not long ago. That's 1 year. Now you are heading in a different direction, and that is of course a little too bad. I just think it is important to discuss this here in relation to the situation that we have today, and I admit that this is a different situation than it was in 2006. But I think, on the other hand, that if we can stick to the principle of 141⁄2 years from the date of withdrawal, then that is a starting point. And I heard Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen say that social democracy also thinks it is a good idea to stick to that principle. Then it is true that there is the early retirement, but, in my opinion, it should not be a part of picking up the worn out. If you are worn out, it is a different situation, and we should avoid it. But it is people who, whether they are 45 or 55 years of age or what they are, must have a helping hand in various other areas of service. This has nothing to do with the payroll. And that is why I think it is important that we look at the possibility that people who are able to work a little more will also have the opportunity to do so, so that, on the other hand, we actually have an improved opportunity to take care of those who actually need help from the community.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214112701	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214112704	I mean, just to make it very clear: we have no desire to change any agreement at all. We didn't want you to go in there and do the fixation you did with the reward. This means that, from the point of view of social democrats, we have been put back in relation to our ability to protect groups in our labour market from having too much, too hard last year on the labour market where they should have the opportunity to leave. This opportunity removed a number of parties from which the Social Democratic Party was not a member. The question is, of course, how much the government now wants to set the retirement age. The Prime Minister said: 1-2-3 years, but not 4 years. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214112748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214112752	I think we should in some way discuss in a constructive spirit how we can organise and adapt our labour market, and that we should not make it black or white and put everyone on the labour market in the same booth. That is not what Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil did either, but I am just saying that I see it as such that we should not do this and say that whether you have easy office work or you have a hard physical job is the same thing. I think it is important for us to have some arrangements in place so that those who can and will have an opportunity to contribute, so that, on the other hand, we have better financial opportunities to take care of those who need it, regardless of whether they are about to retire or 45 years or 35 years old or whatever age group they are. It must be the case that we organise services and support for those who need it, in exchange for those who can contribute to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214112843	Well, hmm--it's kind of just a little signal that we should try to keep up time. We have already eaten up time for a colleague's question. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214112855	Thank you. It must be surprising to everyone that psychiatry has not long since appeared in the Finance Act. That is how the Left psychiatry rapporteur, Mrs Jane Heitmann, wrote in 2014, when the Left was in opposition. After all, the Left is part of the government and has the post of Minister for Health. Nevertheless, there is not one line in the draft budget on appropriations to increase psychiatry, despite the fact that while the number of patients in psychiatry has increased by 43%, appropriations have only increased by 17%, and despite the fact that the number of re-housings in psychiatry has never been as high as it was in 2015. These were 8,481 patients, one third of the patients who experienced rehospitation. In recent years, we have witnessed several killings of civil servants, police officers, educators, SOSUs who have been killed because patients have been discharged prematurely before they have been finalised. That is why I am very surprised that in the draft budget the Left has not secured a boost to psychiatry by means of fixed funds in the Finance Act, and I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur of the Left why it is no longer considered that it should be surprising to everyone that psychiatry has not been put into the Finance Act a long time ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214113008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214113014	Now it can be said that psychiatry is a complicated size in many ways, and that is why we also have different institutions that take care of it. Some are under state control, some are in the regions, and it can therefore be said that, at least for the regional part, there has been an economic boost in the framework that has been created. As far as the state is concerned, there are some of the things that relate to psychiatry, which are about the rate pool negotiations and the rate pool agreement. So I think that is a level that we can be familiar with, but as we can easily do, and I would like to sign for that, we can continue to discuss it. If we compare some of the discussions we have just had on labour supply and who should contribute more, it is some of the groups that may be hardest to identify, but which must have the greatest helping hand. And we can only afford that if there is money for it and money is made for it, and if others who do not have the suffering but who can contribute do so too. So, in this way, I think that the previous question and the current question are very closely linked.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214113116	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214113119	The rapporteur has now pointed out that chocolate gold coins can only be eaten once, and that is quite right. When you choose to use the chocolate gold coins to give tax relief, you cannot use them to lift the psychiatry. I just think that we have an area here that is so serious because we have seen several killings of public servants in recent years. It is a tragedy every time, not only for those who become victims, but also for those who become perpetrators. This is a task which we know can be solved by giving more appropriations. We talk about it over and over again. All parties agree that there should be a boost, but no one is giving it priority, and that is why I have to ask: why is it not in the Left and in the government's financial bill that a lasting boost is given to the finance law, not over the rate pool?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214113204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214113208	I fully agree with that analysis. Those are tragedies, and I think we all share that view. Therefore, I also think that we have a strong focus, also broadly based, in the Folketing on this issue, among others. via the rate pool, including: through the regional measures, including: At the same time, at the level that we already have in the field of state affairs. That doesn't mean you can't do any more. I am not standing here saying that it is now over, that the box is closed forever, and that no more is ever happening in this area, not at all. For, according to what I have mentioned a few times, things are of course linked, and I believe that the groups, including the psychiatric patients, who need the support that the community must provide, should also have it. But we can only do that if we have made the money first. Fortunately, however, we have a country in which we generally care for these people in a good and dignified way. I cannot say that there are no other examples, of course there are. It is only people who work with it and about which it is about. Generally speaking, we have a good and dignified care, but we can do more. It only requires that we have made some more money and that more people take part in contributing to it. And that is what we are proposing in this context, which I have outlined here a few times.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214113312	Sir. Orla Sea, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214113318	Thank you for that and thank you to the Left rapporteur for the presentation. When you listen to the presentation by the Left, it sounds as if the Left alone is concerned about doing all the good for Denmark. However, when I look at the deeds, I can see that a large proportion of the population has to live with the ceiling on cash benefits, some have to live with being very much longer in the labour market, while others have to be expected to have tax cuts. What is it that drives the Left to constantly want to make bigger and bigger differences between people, since there are, after all, means to do better for the whole of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214113358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214113402	If sir... Orla Hav is so upset about the ceiling on cash benefits, why is it not suggested that it should be removed? If sir... Orla Hav thinks we work too much, why does Mr. Orla Have not therefore suggested that working hours should be reduced, as several other parties at least two, have I taken note of the suggestion made in the Red Camp? Then it may be that there can be a majority at some point. That's what Mr. Orla don't have any suggestions. That is why, with all due respect, it is a little difficult to take that criticism seriously when you do not make any proposals yourself, either as a global financial act or as an amendment to the agreement that is now before you try to do something about these things. We don't see this as a showdown where greater differences are now being created. I have mentioned in an earlier reply that the Gini coefficient is almost unchanged, but the Gini coefficient, in spite of this, we believe that the greatest social boost that can be given to any person who is outside the Community is to get them into the Community, into the labour market and create a better framework for them to enter the labour market. It takes a lot of things, but it requires, among other things. There are also jobs to be obtained, and there are, but there must also be new jobs to be created in the future, and that is why, among other things, we are here. ensure that there are some better conditions to work under for Danish companies in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214113507	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214113511	We simply do not understand that there should be two completely different strategies in relation to bringing everyone along. The 2018 Economic Statement, which has been presented, has built in a growth rate of 0.8%, and the government intends to use 0.3 per cent. The difference of 0.5%. triggers approx. Two-and-a-half billion. kr., so what is it that the Left wants to spend the 2.5 billion. kr. To? Is it to the benefit of those who have to have tax relief in view further? Or is it to help some of those who get into trouble because of the discrimination that the Left is up to?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214113552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214113554	In other words, I would like to suggest that hard-working workers in the low-wage group receive tax relief. That is actually our policy, because it must pay better to make an effort. That is so contrary to Mr. Orla Hav, who believes that it should not be better for low-wage workers in this country to be able to make an effort. That's where we disagree. But I just think that it is a foundation for our society that those who make an effort should also receive a reward for it, so that we actually have the opportunity to help those who really need community help. And it's not a question of making a difference between people. It's a question of getting things together and getting more people together so we can better afford to help those who need community help. That is quite quiet what our policy is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214113632	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214113635	Sir. Jacob Jensen is not very much in favour of dealing with specific questions, but I shall try to ask one, because Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen asked a very specific question earlier. The question was asked on the basis of a quote from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen in the radio programme Orientation on P1 on Monday, 12 December, and Mr. Jacob Jensen called for a deepening of that question in order to answer it. It's so lucky that sir... Joachim B. Olsen in the broadcast explained it. That is why I would like to start by quoting the quote that Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen asked for an answer to: abolishing the post-retirement wage, because it will increase employment by 40 000. Later on in the same broadcast, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen: This is the policy of the Liberal Alliance. We think that should be done. The three parties in the government must put together a policy, and here we are one of the parties. That is why the question to Mr. Jacob Jensen, rapporteur: Does the Left agree with the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214113735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214113739	In other words, we are in government with the Liberal Alliance, and that is why the policy that is being put forward will be per. definition be identical. We agree with the Liberal Alliance that we need to increase labour supply because we can see that one of the problems the National Bank mentioned the other day in their report there is, if we are to support the burgeoning recovery that we can see, there are bottlenecks in the labour market. There you can then use different gripes. We have mentioned some of them, for example. the date of withdrawal, and there may probably be other grip that can be used. That is why, in our government too, we have precisely an ambition to increase the supply of labour. We will then come back to that with a proposal on how we see it together in the government. So I fully agree with the Liberal Alliance that we must do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214113818	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214113822	Since it's the case, sir. Jacob Jensen himself has said that asking people to stay one year longer on the labour market is perhaps a little too violent, it is quite reasonable to suspect that this is a question of abolishing the last part of the post-retirement wage with the Liberal Alliance. That is why the question is once again: does the Left agree on this point? Do you want to abolish the last part of the 'yes' or 'no' pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214113845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214113848	We want labour supply to be increased. You can do that in different ways. That is why we have also proposed in our government programme, which the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party and the Left are united in calling for this to happen, that is to say, to increase the supply of labour. You can do that in many ways. I have mentioned a few of the ways. We will come back with a concrete proposal on this. But that does not change the fact that, if we are to get people going on the labour market, we must also create the opportunity for it, both by the presence of jobs and by the fact that there are well-qualified unemployed hands. Those things are also connected. That is why, of course, we want to focus on how to get as many hands as we can and will on the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214113929	Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214113936	As part of the Finance Act, the Left will vote to harmonise the production school service with the SU. Will the rapporteur of the Left not explain to me why?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214113944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214113948	'Cause you're like I think, sir. René Christensen mentioned this in his speech, and it was also in some of the questions that were asked, and answers that were given when you are in a production school, of course not there to get a salary, but to get a competence to move forward in a youth education. That is why we also think that it is reasonable to equate the benefits they receive in a production school with an SU level, and that is the argument for that. So we can say that we are not going to the production school to get a salary, but we are going to get an SU which is, moreover, one of the world's highest, and then you will have the skills to move on with your life and get a youth education and thus also move on in the further training programme.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214114022	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214114025	Okay, thanks for that answer. I should just like to understand the Left quite correctly: what is important for the Left is that it is exactly equal to the SU, so that pupils who attend a production school receive neither more nor less in service than what you get at the SU? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214114041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214114045	What is being proposed with the financial law agreement is that it is harmonised so that it comes to an SU level, but that the teaching tool is also given to the pupils that they can draw to that level if it is, for example, that they do not show up for the teaching. These are the elements that lie, and we think that is fair to say. The whole idea of being at a production school is not to have to earn a salary, but it is to have to earn some skills in order to get on with a training course afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214114111	Sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214114117	This discussion about what the government writes in the government's constitution about the supply of labour is therefore of considerable importance to people, and therefore Mr. Jacob Jensen also put up with the fact that we keep asking about it. Because what was proposed earlier was that the retirement age should be increased more than what we have already agreed. But even if we did what the Left had thought earlier, we do not come close to the figures for increased labour supply which are written in the government base. You can write so much, but it's probably because you have some idea of how you want to get it, that you write exactly those numbers. Now it comes out that it could be simply to remove the after-wage, phase it out completely with the effect it would have and the impact it would have on those people who need to leave after a hard working life. In fact, the rapporteur has not yet rejected this. Now he'll get the third chance. I think it should be made clear. Is the Left in favour of it, or is the Left not in favour of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214114212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214114215	We are in favour of increasing labour supply. This is clear from the government base. It's not just something you write because you just think it's funny. It is because it is necessary to increase the supply of labour so that we unlock the bottlenecks we can already see are in the labour market. This can help to ensure that the recovery that we all hope will come can also bite down, and we can make money so that we have something to do good with those who are actually worn out and need a helping hand. There is this thing about, like putting something in perspective and saying that if you've been in a labour market for a long time, you have to have some kind of benefit, because now you've been there long enough. But we think it is important that, no matter when you need help, whether it is right before you retire, or whether it is earlier in your life for various reasons, you should also have the opportunity to have it. And there this society can make itself available if we do something to make society richer. That is what we are proposing, among other things. by ensuring that the recovery gets going well and that there are available hands to get to the jobs that are also.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214114310	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214114314	In fact, the workforce will increase in the years to come. What is the problem right now, and can be it in several sectors, is that you cannot get people with the right qualifications. That's why it could be a problem, that is, that, sir. Orla Hav asked about earlier, namely that if you want to drastically cut public spending next year, cut 2.5 billion. kr., for example. be training, it hit again. It could be that it again affected upgrading, and then the problem has not been resolved. However, I would like to give the rapporteur another chance to respond. I have to understand from this that the title, like that, is: the left opens to remove the early retirement altogether. That is what the rapporteur's response must be understood to mean.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214114348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214114351	One can understand exactly what I am saying, namely that we are completely behind the government basis. It would be strange other way of saying that we have an ambition to increase the supply of work. And why do we have that? Of course we have, and I have tried to say that a few times, because it is the whole foundation for there being hands to get. And there I agree with Mr. Jesper Petersen in that qualification we must also have looked at together. I would like to sign for the right to be right that the Social Democratic Party has a concrete proposal. It is then one in six in all, I think, about the whole budget law, and that is precisely the question. I think that's fine. We can talk about this further, i.e. the upgrading of the workforce. However, it is necessary for us to have a welfare society in the coming years, which can take care of the weak and those who need help, that there are some who contribute to the labour market, even more than today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214114432	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214114438	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. Perhaps I heard wrong, but then the rapporteur helps me. I heard it as if the rapporteur thought it would be good if there were some opportunities to withdraw from the labour market before an ever-increasing retirement age was reached. So I just ask, what are these options? If we look at the world of reality, all the doors that people who entered the labour market at an early age could take advantage of and go through have been closed. In practice, the early retirement scheme has been abolished for people who entered the labour market when they were 18 to 20 years of age. Early retirement is virtually impossible to obtain. It is not enough that you cannot support yourself, and illness and disability are not enough to get an early retirement pension. The flexible job scheme has seriously deteriorated in terms of pay and employment. The health allowance has been reduced in the period. So the people who cannot work until they have to retire at 72 or 77, what it ends up with, are referred to cash aid with ceiling and spouse dependency and everything. What kind of opportunities do some people have?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214114542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214114546	I simply do not share Mr. Finn Sørensen's interpretation of our welfare societies and the opportunities there are. I see it another way. We can then expand it, and I think that is exactly the way we should go. It may be that Mr. Finn Sørensen has some good ideas for it and also some money for it by the way. Then I will be open to discussing how we can expand the opportunities for those who need it on the labour market. On the other hand, I would like to help ensure that those who can then contribute something more than 6 months in this case, which we have played out with in the past can also be allowed to do so, and thus secure the means so that, whether you are 25, 35, 45 or whatever you are, you have the opportunity to get the help that is needed. Therefore, I would also say that if we are going to make these changes, it must be with a run-in so that it is not just tomorrow or the day after tomorrow that you change it, but that it may be with an 8-10 year term, so that you have time to adapt to it in your work cycle. Of course it should be; it should not come as a thief at night, as the previous government supported by the SF and Enhedslisten did when they made labour market reforms.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214114646	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214114650	So I have to understand that the next time, when some of the opportunities that have just been used by people who entered the labour market at an early age and who have a hard working life physically and mentally, do not you do it like a thief at night, then you do it in broad daylight? It is, of course, always a step forward, because then people have an opportunity to fight against it. However, the answer was that the rapporteur has no answer, because the rapporteur does not believe that there should be any possibility of early withdrawal. But just to give the rapporteur a chance to answer: what is it in the legislation in force that we can go back many years and have prevented people from working longer, that is to say to a higher age? What is it in the legislation that prevents it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214114736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214114739	I am well aware that Enhedslisten now operates as the Alternativet • i.e. Enhedslisten's proposal to work 30 hours a week and respect for the fact that some proposals are made; you can then agree or disagree with them. It is, then, in contrast to the large opposition party that does not make any proposals. I just have to say in relation to the Enhedslisten's proposal that there we will have a challenge to raise funds • we talked earlier about psychiatry; we have talked about many other things that require funds and that we agree on investing in our welfare societies. This requires that some people work, as well as those who can work and want to work. And that is what we are asking for by making a model so that it becomes more flexible, so that you can support those who actually need community help.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214114819	Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214114825	I would like to follow that up a little, because I do not really think the rapporteur really got the answer. Peder Hvelplund on his question about psychiatry. In the 2015 report of the Danish Health Authority, which is called "Health in Denmark', anxiety, depression and schizophrenia lie on the top five list of Danes' sufferings, and there are a great many on early retirement, who have mental illnesses, so some of those who are outside the labour market, as the rapporteur just mentioned. In the SF we want to release a quarter billion to a boost of psychiatry over the Finance Act, and we also want to introduce free psychological assistance for young people under 25. I would like to hear from the rapporteur: what is the Left's intention both to prevent these serious mental disorders, but also to give proper treatment to those affected?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214114918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214114921	After all, we may not be familiar with the details of the psychiatry budget, but at least it is large. Whether it's bigger or not, I don't have to be able to say, but if it's exactly 250 million. kr. I would also like to question the fact that this will make the decisive difference. But I would very much like, also with the SF, to discuss how we can create a better framework for psychiatric treatment, because it is, but I do not imagine that this is just a resource issue, because we have taken various steps. As I mentioned earlier, there is something regional, something state-owned, something else that may also play better together. There can be coordination, a lot of things can happen, but it should be exactly 250 million. I'm not sure, but if SF has other excellent, constructive suggestions on how we can get more out of the funds that are then, including the professionalism that lies among the employees, I'd be happy to discuss it with SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214115015	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214115019	We certainly have, but it is not long ago that children's and young people's psychiatry were called out in arms, because the pressure on psychiatry is now so great that children and young people cannot be properly cared for, and the right treatment cannot be offered to them. As Mr. Peder Hvelplund also quite rightly said that there is a sharp increase in expenditure on psychiatry, so I would ask the rapporteur to answer how the Left will deal with the pressure on psychiatry.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214115049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214115052	That is something we must deal with along the way, because it is also an ongoing development of the way that pressure develops. I agree that there is increasing pressure at the moment, but I just want to come back to what I have said before. With respect for the SF's proposals and focus on this area, certainly, it also requires if there is to be more funding for us to have those funds. We can, of course, give priority to this from elsewhere, certainly we can, but we can at least ensure that there are better opportunities for us to earn the money we need, so that we can also give priority to some of these vulnerable groups, among others. psychiatric patients. However, I do think that with the level that already exists, plus the wage-pool agreements that we have also jointly concluded, plus the regional measures with an increased financial framework, there are some sensible options, even today. But it can also be better, certainly it can.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214115134	Thank you, sir. Jacob Jensen for today's work. The next rapporteur may have time to sharpen his appetite here before the midday break by giving his rapporteur's speech. It's sir. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214115148	Thank you. The other day, the new Danish cannon was published. There were many Danes who had participated and voted on what values they particularly appreciate and associate with Danish society. You can of course think what you want, what all these cannons are going to be used for, but one thing is certain, and that is that the new Danish cannon has not been a source of inspiration for the parties behind the financial law which a majority will unfortunately adopt tomorrow. The top scorer among the values on which the Danes voted was the welfare society. In the cannon it is described in the following words: In the Danish welfare society, citizens enjoy a high level of protection against social and physical risks. The welfare benefits in Denmark are e.g.: financial support in the event of unemployment, sickness, old age, childcare, care for the elderly and, in particular, public-supported education and training. Unfortunately, it cannot be said that it is a value that has been a guide to this financial law or, at the very least, to government policy. The protection against social risks and the economic support of unemployment and disease are unfortunately not something we can take for granted any longer and count on securely in our societies. The ceiling on cash benefits, which has been set in recent months, will double the number of poor children. 15,000 children must celebrate Christmas in poverty. This brings Denmark back to a dull first place in poverty in the Nordic region. Congratulations, sir. Minister of Finance. Yesterday, one of these reform-stricken Danes wrote to me. It is a seriously ill woman who is also a single mother. She is hit by the ceiling and what she wrote and told yesterday was that now her son of 16 years of age had to give up her education and take work in the local supermarket to help pay their rent and her medication, otherwise it could not run around. It is Denmark at the end of 2016 • one of the world's richest countries. We hear of unacceptable conditions for our elderly, heavy diapers, lack of help and care. This is what we offer people who have worked their whole lives. And with the financial law of the year, the government will continue with the severe cuts in our education before they come up with new proposals to cut the SU in the spring. Why all these cuts? Yes, because the government would rather spend money on reducing registration fees, on lowering stock taxes or on allowing the richest families to avoid paying inheritance tax. So much for the welfare society that the Danes have chosen as the most important value. The government parties themselves say that they are in favour of a strong welfare society, and often they actually apologise for that too, we have heard from the platform today that the so-called reforms have become another word for cuts, that they are necessary to maintain welfare. This summer I attended the Prime Minister's so-called Growth Summit up at Marienborg, which was to warm up to the 2025 plan, and the forehead was laid in deep folds with the Prime Minister. He told about how Denmark's growth and productivity were low and how over a number of years we would lag behind our neighbouring countries, and that we were at the bottom with Spain and Italy, as it was called, and therefore we had to carry out reforms, lower taxes on the richest, increase retirement age, cut benefits. You know the program. But then something happened a few weeks ago. The national accounts were updated, and think of it, so it turned out that Denmark's growth and productivity in the last year has been much higher than we thought. In fact, productivity has increased more in Denmark than in our neighbouring countries, and Denmark is now in the absolute superliga. Instead of rolling down the ladder of prosperity, as the Prime Minister warned, we have jumped up. However, if it had been expected that the Prime Minister had convened a new large press conference in which he had announced that all planned reduction reforms had now, of course, been taken off the table, then it was badly disappointed, because although the new figures completely dressed the Prime Minister's crisis story, the government continues out of exactly the same track as if nothing had happened. And that is precisely what makes it so clear that the government's assumed concern for the welfare of the future, their talk of necessary reforms is nothing more than bad excuses • bad excuses that cover up what government policy is actually intended to serve narrow economic interests, regardless of the cost to our welfare community. To lower the inheritance tax for the very wealthiest, while cutting the salaries of production school pupils, to make the most expensive cars cheaper, while elderly people are failing, to lower the housing tax for the richest homeowners, while hospitals are being forced to cut 2%. year after year, while you cut in the Labour Inspectorate, in the educations, in the SU... all this has nothing to do with defending welfare, nothing to do with serving the ordinary Dane's welfare. It is simply a measure of interest for a small, narrow community at the top of society. Moreover, it is often the same people and companies that sponsor the election campaigns of the government parties. One of the other values voted into the new cannon was equality before the law. Nor can it be said to be a clear clue to the new Finance Act, because with the new, tough rules for permanent residence in Denmark, many thousands of people will find themselves in a situation where being affected by illness, disability or just having a note will make it impossible for them to become equal citizens in Danish society. We will have a growing group of citizens, our neighbours, our colleagues, our friends who do not have the same rights and opportunities as the rest of us. Instead of fighting parallel societies, as they say, the parties behind the Finance Act are creating parallel societies in this way, and there will be a greater distinction between us living in Denmark, A and B citizens. What about the Christian cultural heritage, one of the other values of the cannon? Yes, one might at least ask oneself: where is neighbor love when thousands of children are to celebrate Christmas in poverty? Where is the neighbourly love of the Finance Parties when they lower our aid to the poorest countries? Where is neighbourly love when you want to stop accepting quota refugees while Aleppo burns and suffers? You can sometimes feel a little discouraged when you think about the consequences of government policy, and when we risk looking forward to several years and more financial laws with this government... it has sat down comfortably in the ministerial chairs and shelved the conflicts between the parties... but fortunately there is also much that gives hope. It is not for nothing that values such as welfare, trust, freedom, liberalism, voluntaryness and association were chosen by the Danes as key values in the cannon. It gives hope to see students who, in a short time, can collect 76,000 signatures against government training cuts; it gives hope to see thousands of Danes who each day participate in volunteering in sports clubs, in homework cafes, in associations and in organizations; it gives hope to see a group like the Next Helpers grow bigger and bigger, people who are affected by unemployment and disease who help each other, share things and support each other in the protests against the cash aid ceiling; it also gives hope to see responsible companies who say no to advertise the hate preachers on the Short Avis; and it gives hope to see how thousands of people the other day met up in solidarity with the policeman who was meaninglessly killed a few days ago and that the community gathered to the survivors. It is Denmark, it is the values on which we must build. We can do so much if we want to, if we believe in the values that have created our society, if we are there for each other, if we choose the community, when we know that we all become stronger and freer when we have each other's backs and not when we compete down. If the government does not want to develop that view and that society, then the rest of us will have to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214120116	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. Then it is time to take a lunch break, where you can think about the many impressions you have received during the morning. We will resume the sitting at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214130010	The sitting is resumed. We shall begin with brief comments to the rapporteur. The first brief remark is from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214130023	Thank you so much. The Enhedslisten has joined this galley that it would be great for Danish society if the working week were reduced to 30 hours. I would like to congratulate Enhedslisten for actually putting forward such a well-thought-out proposal. There are some assumptions that do not hold up in the presentation that Enhedslisten has made, but after all an attempt has been made. But what Enhedslisten's own proposal shows is that all the prosperity that may come in the future will be spent on us working less. So there will be no money for increased public spending. There will be no room for better treatment in hospitals, etc. etc. The Enhedslisten is therefore a party that wants both increased public spending but also that we work less. Both things cannot be done at the same time, so what really is Enhedslisten's priority?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214130134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214130134-2	First of all, I have to make a correction, because we haven't jumped on any galley. The issue of shorter working hours has been at the heart of Enhedslisten since the party was formed, and indeed long before. It is a battle that goes back to the beginning of the workers' movement and that has also resulted in us actually having reduced the weekly working time from about 60 hours a week 80-100 years ago to 37 hours today. Thank you for the commendation for the report, but I must nevertheless note that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen has hardly read it, for Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is told that we will use all the wealth to reduce working hours. In fact, that is not what we are presenting in the proposal. According to our proposal, where we are starting from the baseline from the Ministry of Finance and using the same model, there will still be an increase in prosperity of 272 billion. kr. Towards 2027. But it is true that prosperity will grow less in exactly the same way as if we were still working 60 hours a week today, the prosperity of our society would probably also be higher. So it's a choice we're having. Do we want to double our consumption potential by 2050, or would we like to exchange some of the increase in consumption opportunities for a little more time with the young?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214130251	Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214130252	That is quite real, I fully acknowledge that. Once again, I would also like to praise Enhedslisten for saying that it is a matter of prioritising that is right. But it is also true that when we already have a very low effective working time in Denmark and then have to lower it further, the consequence of what Enhedslisten proposes is that there will be fewer resources for hospitals, for day care institutions, for everything else that Enhedslisten says we need to spend all the room in our economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214130331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214130332	In relation to this very low working time, it is true if you look at the individual employee, but you have to remember that because we have such a high employment rate, we are actually, if you look at the families, very, very nicely in international comparison compared to the total effort per year. hour to be laid. That is, of course, what determines the relationship between family life and, moreover, how much we produce in a society. At the same time, we are among the world's most productive in the hours we are then at work. With regard to what is affordable in the public sector, I can promise that even with the Enhedslisten's proposal, the consumption growth we can have in the public sector is significantly above what the Liberal Alliance could ever dream of agreeing to.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214130409	Then it's mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214130410	Thank you. Although we have paused, I would like to comment on the rapporteur's speech, which we had before the break. Because it was such a speech that now the sky is falling and that it is a really terrible financial law, also in relation to the welfare society that we know and so on. etc. In fact, I think this is a little too bad, because can the rapporteur not confirm in relation to this financial law, and indeed also when we look at it from 2016, that we have come from a period when there was actually minus growth in municipalities where public spending was under pressure, and that in 2016 we also have to measure it in relation to 2017, because there we expect it to have also seen that there has been moderate growth in public spending? Can the rapporteur not be pleased that there will be 580 million? kr. for the day offers? Can the rapporteur not welcome the fact that there will be a billion? kr. More to care for the elderly? Can the rapporteur not welcome the things that actually come with this financial law? Then I understand that one disagrees with some of the tightenings that are taking place in the field of foreigners and such things. It is well known that one disagrees with it but that is, the sun shines, and it is actually going very well, and it is actually doing better than when Enhedslisten was a support party. Can't you acknowledge that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214130512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214130513	Some people in our society are doing very well, but there are also a lot of people who are not doing very well, among other things. the people affected by the cash benefits reform and other poverty benefits. With regard to the development of municipal consumption, it is true that there were some years when it was very low or negative when we look behind. That is not what was planned for, which is why I would also like to wait until we have the accounts from 2016 and subsequently from 2017, and see if we really get the growth that has been agreed. The problem is that the sanction regime imposed on the municipalities means that they often spend less because they are afraid of getting the hammer of the Finance Minister if they are going to spend too much. And so it often turns out that the real growth in municipal consumption has been lower than what was assumed. But let's take a look. Of course, I think it is positive every time we manage to secure more money for better service for our elderly and decent conditions in the day-care institutions. But it must also be said that with the very hard cuts that have been made since the crisis, both under the previous government and under the last government, there really is a need for recovery out there, because some 30,000 warm hands have been cut away in public welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214130626	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214130627	Thank you. Well, I am also pleased that it is so in politics that, although we may disagree on a lot, there is something we can agree on, of course, there is, and this is also reflected in the votes we fortunately also have here in the Parliamentary Chamber. Another thing I would like to ask the rapporteur is in relation to tax relief, because it has filled a great deal in the debate up to this financial law. Where does Enhedslisten really stand in relation to that? For some of the Enhedslisten's rapporteurs attach great importance to the fact that tax cuts are evil, and now I would like to ask the fiscal rapporteur: Does the Enhedslisten think that it is best for those who go to work to have the least of it, in other words to pay as high a tax as possible? Or does Enhedslisten have the view that those who go to work and show up every morning should also have as much left for themselves as possible, including those with small incomes? And, of course, there must also be room for us to have the welfare society that we know today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214130714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214130715	Yeah, well, there's no independent point in collecting taxes. It's not like you think it's great. It is because taxes finance one of the world's most successful societies with high social security where we have each other's backs. And that requires some tax revenue. I don't see it as a burden, as many do, I see it as an investment. Regular, even Danes invest in their own freedom, for without the tax-financed welfare society we were faced with the employers alone, as our country looked like before we had a welfare society, and that is not something that increases the freedom of ordinary people. But we'd like to see it if you could lighten the tax. We do not like the fact that only people in work should be relieved of the tax and that those affected by illness or disability, or the pensioners should be cheated every time, as has been the case with recent tax reforms.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214130802	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214130803	I took note of the fact that Mr. Pelle Dragsted criticised the fact that there was no more equality before the law, because we make it more difficult to obtain permanent residence permits in Denmark if, for example, you have been in carambola with the law. I personally think it is fantastic that you are not allowed to stay permanently in Denmark if you are a criminal, but I have to give Mr. Pelle Dragsted is right that then there is no equality between the criminal aliens and the Danes. But Mr. Pelle Dragsted not also that it is okay that as a foreigner you do not have the same rights in living in Denmark as a Dane?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214130844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214130846	If we're talking about people who come here to do crime, I just think you should get your sentence and then be sent back home. Where I am concerned is where we are talking about people born in Denmark or who have come here as children. They commit, for example. a six-month sentence of liberty offence could result from an ordinary bar fight when they were 18 or 19 years old and, as I understand the agreement on the Finance Act, they will never be able to obtain a permanent residence permit, even when they are 50 years old. Now, I think that's a very harsh extra punishment. It's not okay to be in a bar fight, either for me, sir. Rasmus Jarlov or someone born here in Denmark by foreign parents. However, I think that this is a very severe extra penalty, which is not proportional. And what I was also talking about was that, for example, if you were to talk about it. is hit by a bill of lading, which is innocence, or is affected by disease, which is also innocent, becomes very, very difficult to obtain a permanent residence permit. So what I am concerned about is that we have a very large B team in Denmark, which lives here, which is our neighbours, who are our colleagues, but who in some way do not have the same rights. That's the kind of thing I think creates parallel societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214130958	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214130959	In other words, what creates parallel societies in Denmark is that we have had an excessive immigration of unqualified labour that ends at the bottom of society. When we have to choose between the many, many millions of people who could benefit from having a stay in Denmark, and when we recognise that there has to be a limit to how many we can accept, then I feel that the criminals must be in the back of the queue, i.e. when we have to choose which of the foreigners should be allowed to be in Denmark. And that is why I think it is right, right and proper that criminal foreigners should not be permanently resident. Is Mr. Pelle Dragsted disagree with that consideration?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131036	In fact, I think I answered the question. I mean, we're talking about gangs who come here to commit crime, so I have no problem with them getting a hard sentence and getting out as soon as possible, but what I'm worried about is that people who have lived here all their lives and who somehow come into conflict with the law early in their lives, so the rest of their lives must be cut off from permanent residence. Then I just want to state in relation to this choice between people, that if it was up to me, no one would have to flee to Denmark at all. After all, we have not decided on immigration in Denmark. We have refugees who come here and then we have a lot of foreign labour, but that is another discussion. After all, this is not a choice, it is people who are on the run and whom we accept, so that they can find protection until they can return to their own country.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131119	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131121	Thank you. Enhedslisten has made such a fine presentation about a 30-hour week, and I would like to commend Enhedslisten for having actually made a concrete proposal where there is also funding. Part of the funding is a reform of unnecessary bureaucracy by 15 minutes a day for public servants, and that is what we think is interesting, because we always have a desire to reduce unnecessary bureaucracy. So I'd like to see how this is actually gonna be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131148	That is a lot of the control requirements that exist. We have, for example. In the past, it was suggested that some of the compulsory pupil plans and a number of the documentation requirements which have been poured over the public employees at all levels, from the day institutions, schools and to the hospital sector should be looked at. And a study has been carried out which shows that a great deal of time is being spent on unnecessary bureaucracy imposed from in here, and we would very much like to help cut that down. We then take the view, in contrast to the Left, that the money released by such an exercise must remain and that if we want it, and if employees want it, they can be used to compensate for the shorter working hours. This means that working hours are released which may mean that colleagues can work a little less.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131240	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131241	That sounds interesting. As I said, we are also interested in getting rid of bureaucracy a little more, but what is it besides the student plans, otherwise for some things you think? How will this be dealt with in concrete terms? We are now actually working on looking at how to eliminate bureaucracy in cooperation with the KL. But what exactly will Enhedslisten do for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131302	There are many areas, but one area, for example. many of the documentation requirements that we hear there are out there, that is, what has been called the minute tyranny in the care of the elderly. A lot of this is due to, among other things. They want to see competition and tendering, which, after all, requires you to document minute by minute what kind of services you are offering, so that private people can come in and bid on them and make money on them, and that has helped to increase bureaucracy. There are also a number of other areas where we will be able to address them. Right now, for example, there is. a training exercise in relation to the business promotion effort, which is also thought to be used quite inefficiently. So there are a lot of areas where we can look at making things more effective.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131345	Then it's mr. Danny K. Malkowski.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131348	Thank you. This is, in fact, a follow-up to my colleague, Mr President. Joachim B. Olsen's question, because there are some things that are missing to make this equation go up. In his speech, the rapporteur said that Denmark's economy was at last showing a somewhat stable growth again, and that it is therefore an error of priority that we are not now investing more than we are doing here in, among other things. well-being and the unemployed. However, the purpose of the Finance Act and the government basis is precisely to ensure that we have a lasting welfare, that is to say, in the future too. So how does Enhedslisten react to ensuring the growth that is necessary to ensure that we also have a functioning welfare society in the future, while at the same time making a proposal with a 30-hour working week, which also includes a tax increase of 50 billion. kr. and a reduction in employment?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131431	Well, with this proposal, state revenue will continue to grow compared to today. With this proposal, prosperity will continue to grow compared to today. It is, moreover, a discussion in relation to climate and the environment, whether we want even the growth in wealth that we are proposing, because everything else will raise our consumption and our CO2 We have an extremely important generational task ahead of us in discussing whether this should develop in this way at all. But it is true and clear that when wealth grows less, incomes also grow less. They're still growing, but at a lower rate, because you swap some of it for free time. This also means, of course, that tax revenue is growing less. And there is what we are pointing out that there are some counter-productive effects: if, for example, we are going to have to do something about it. If unemployment is brought down, we are dragging more people into the labour market. We could see this when there were the very good years in 2007 and 2008, namely that some of those who were far from the labour market came in, and then we save cash benefits, cash benefits, activation. If there is a shortfall, then we are quite open to the fact that there are some tax revenues that need to be increased, and we are pointing to such things as this. taxation of capital, taxation of financial transactions, taxation of large assets and large inheritances, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131555	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131556	I do not know whether the rapporteur has read the latest Economic Statement. It was published last week, but in fact it says that unemployment is historically low. It has not been so low for 40 years, except in 2007 and 2008. At the same time, companies are calling for new reforms to be made so that we can increase the supply of labour, and this cannot be done by saying that we must have fewer people in employment at the same time. So what is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131620	It is still the case that there are seven available per person. We are still far from achieving this. In addition to the people who can enter the labour market directly, there is a large number of darkness out there, i.e.: people who have gone completely out of the system because of recent reforms. And we also know that you can pull in some of those who are now outside if demand comes. Finally, part of the challenge can also be solved by the fact that some of those who today are part-time but want to take up time can increase their working time. To the extent that there are bottleneck problems, there is also an opportunity to draw on labour from our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131701	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131703	Thank you. I would also like to join the chorus of those who praise Enhedslisten's plans for how to finance a 30-hour week. But I heard it a little bit that funding measures, such as reducing sick leave, which is clearly a good thing. It's better to be healthy than sick, isn't it? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131737-2	No, certainly not. In any case, it would be good to reduce sickness absenteeism, not least stress-related absenteeism. However, our position and our assessments, based on the experience that has been gained around us, is that it is precisely the reduction of working hours, especially in the public sector, with full compensation for staff who will be able to reduce the absence of sick people. That is because those places, for example. In Sweden, where experience has been gained in reducing working time in certain companies, both public and private, it has been observed that absenteeism was decreasing. We have estimated in our model that you can get sick leave down to half of it. Is that possible? It's been a few places. If that is not possible, then it is clear that we will have to find some other revenue elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131816	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131817	Yes, yes, but Enhedslisten also has other proposals, such as debureaucratisation. Could we meet in such a way that we carried out some of the initiatives that the Enhedslisten points out, in other words, debureaucratisation and reduction of sick leave as far as we could now get, and then perhaps meet in the middle or something in terms of funding?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131840	We are always willing to sit down and talk to reasonable people at Christiansborg and find good solutions to the challenges facing the Danes. But the problem is often, when the Left talks about the efficiency of the public sector, that it is rarely about debureaucratisation, but often about employees having to run faster than they do today, and that certainly will not reduce sick leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131905	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214131906	Now I think we are in a very good and constructive tone, and that is not bad. That's how I'm sure Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen doesn't mean it either. That is why I would just like to ask a little more specifically, and that is really sincere: when the Enhedslisten proposes a 30-hour week, which should help reduce the stress factor for many of the public employees, how do you envisage this in relation to the many public employees who are already part-time? There are many nurses, many SOSU assistants, many who may work 32 hours or 24 hours or something else. Do they have to go down in time in proportion to the ratio of 37 to 30 hours or how do you imagine it? This must surely be part of the consideration that a reduction in working hours to 30 hours should be able to reduce a stress factor. Because if you already work 30 hours or less, you don't really get anything out of that proposal, you can say.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214132003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214132003-2	Yes, you do now. Because that means that the hourly wage increases. Because if we are to reduce wages from 37 to 30 hours and at the same time ensure that people's real wages are maintained, this means, of course, that the effective hourly wage is increased. And, of course, it will also get an impact on those who work 30 hours. We know from among other things. FOA and 3F studies that there are a great many part-time workers, especially in the public sector, who want to get up full-time. It is clear that when we propose to reduce working hours, but with full staff compensation, in the public sector, this will increase the demand for public labour. Some will be concerned about that down here. However, it will enable some of the people who are already there and who want to take up time to do so to be able to do so. I don't remember, but I think it's almost three quarters or something of FOA's public employees who are part-time. I don't remember exactly, but it's a very, very high number, and many of them actually want to go up full-time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214132101	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214132101-2	Then I would like to hear a little concrete how one imagines it in practical terms. Because there are some tasks. You can be a nurse, you can be a doctor, you can be a policeman, you can be many things. If they suddenly have to go down by x number of hours in working hours, you can't just take the first one from the street with all due respect and put them into the corresponding functions. There is a shortage of doctors, there is a shortage of nurses in several places, there is a shortage of police officers. We are now trying, by the way, to train more police officers by means of the Financial Law Agreement. So how does Enhedslisten imagine that these many, many missing hours of labor, as there will be because you go down in time, must be delivered in from people who immediately do not have those skills?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214132148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214132149	It is clear that this is a challenge in reducing working hours. The other times we have reduced working hours have succeeded in finding the people who could replace this workforce. But that is why it cannot happen overnight. There will be a phase-in period and in some sectors that phase-in period may even have to be longer than elsewhere. What I think is important to emphasise is that we are also looking into a future, saying the wise ones, where we will have a new technological revolution, i.e. automation, artificial intelligence, robotization, which will make thousands and thousands of people's jobs redundant today. Therefore, we may actually be in the opposite position, not that we are going to lack labour, but that we are going to lack jobs for everyone. However, may I not suggest with the great interest of this that we perhaps took the initiative for a hearing here at Christiansborg on the issue of shorter working hours. I think that could be really interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214132247	With that invitation, we thank Mr. Pelle Dragsted. There are no more brief comments. So we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214132307	In the old days, when the Liberal Alliance was a support party, we concluded an agreement on the Finance Act for 2017 with Lars Løkke Rasmussen II government, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party, and that is the agreement we are dealing with today. We went to the financial law negotiations with a clear priority: to increase citizens' freedom. The means of achieving this objective are lower taxes and charges and more freedom of choice for citizens. In other words, in the Liberal Alliance, we focus on the citizen-friendly welfare of the well-being that means a lot in the everyday lives of ordinary hard-working Danes; the welfare that comes from politicians lightening the burden on citizens, politicians confiscating a little less, interfering a little less and spending a little less of taxpayers' money, so that the money can instead be spent by taxpayers themselves. In the country with the world's highest tax burden, this is the best way to increase citizens' freedom and prosperity. Therefore, we are willing to lighten taxes at any time, anywhere, under all pretexts and under all circumstances. Before the negotiations, we announced that the registration fee, the coupling rate and the ground debt again this year were at the top of our wish list. That is why I am very pleased to note that we have been granted all three wishes. One of the main concerns of the Liberal Alliance is the abolition of registration fees. Last year's Finance Act reduced the registration fee from 180%. 150 per cent. In this year's Finance Act, as I said, we had the registration fee reduced again this time by increasing the limit on when the full registration fee was paid. Having a car is a necessity for many Danes. If you live outside the big cities, you can't do that without knowing, as I grew up in the halfrim, a small town east of the city of Brovst. During these years there is much talk about making it more attractive to live outside the big cities. The abolition of registration tax would do more to promote this than any other individual political initiative. Many urban citizens cannot do without a car either. For most families of children, everyday life cannot be connected without a car. Everyone who owns a car knows that it increases your freedom through greater mobility and thus more opportunities for experiences and work. A car simply makes the world smaller. Having a car simply hears the welfare of ordinary Danes. It is incomprehensible to us in the Liberal Alliance that anyone can agree that we in Denmark have a registration fee at all. In Sweden, Germany and England there is no registration fee at all. In the other northern European countries the registration fee is low. If a reduction in the registration fee is a very high priority for us, it is based on two basic principles. The first principle is that the state should not be a taster. It is not for the state to tell us whether it is good or bad to drive in addition to the influence cars have on other people. And as among others... The high level of vehicle taxation demonstrated by the wise men cannot be justified either by environmental or climate considerations or by the cost of road maintenance. The reason that before the last Finance Act there was a marginal tax on cars of 250 per cent was merely a state wish that if you had to own a car, it should not be too big or too hot. For the same reason, the entire Danish left was busy baptizing a moderate lowering of a grotesque overtaxation of cars for a Ferrari reform as if the most terrible thing in the world is that people who are successful and contribute to society in a large style also allow themselves to buy a delicious car. Nothing better shows the pettiness of the Danish left. The second principle is that the State should levy taxes in an appropriate way. The immediate loss of revenue for the Treasury by lowering the registration tax on this year's Finance Act is 725 million. kr. After behavior and backflow, the loss of revenue is reduced to 225 million. kr. This is because a lower registration fee makes it more attractive to work, so employment increases and there are more tax dollars in the Treasury. In future, therefore, citizens will have to pay 725 million. kr. less in registration fee, but the Treasury only misses 225 million. kr. The improvement in the welfare of our citizens is therefore to be felt. The rate of self-financing by reducing the registration fee is, moreover, extremely high according to the Ministry of Finance at a total of 71 per cent. A self-financing rate of 71 per cent. is equivalent to that in order for the state to spend 1 kroner. from the registration fee, the cost to citizens is 3.5 DKK. How can any politician, regardless of political position, think that it is sensible to have a tax where as much as 71 per cent. the loss of revenue by reducing the tax will return to the treasury again? Thus, such a high level of self-financing means that the registration fee does not significantly contribute to the financing of the state, but only costs prosperity and welfare. All parties should therefore be able to agree to abolish it. It is not an issue of ideology, but common sense. Another key issue to which we were granted concessions in the Financial Law Agreement was an increase in the coupling rate. As you know, the percentage of interconnection ensures that the grants of the free primary schools are fixed as a fixed percentage of primary school expenditure. In the context of the recovery package in 2010, the switching rate was reduced from 75 to 71 per cent. On last year's Finance Act it was then raised again to 73 per cent, and now it is back to 75%. The fact that money follows the citizen is a healthy principle which should be spread to several areas. It's a competition, and it's good for everyone, including elementary school. It creates greater diversity in offers. This gives parents the opportunity to vote with their feet when Christiansborg, for example, destroys the primary school with too long school days and too much jokes. The third thing we made concessions on was the reason. The massive increase in the ground debt created great uncertainty for a great many homeowners. And when the National Audit Office has overruled the current property assessment system as unequivocally as it is, it makes sense to free the citizen until a more long-lasting solution is found. We think it is sensible that the already agreed assessment system should ensure more reliable assessments, which will also end the indirect discrimination against homeowners. The Liberal Alliance has three priorities in relation to the forthcoming negotiations on property taxation. We want property taxation to be as low as possible, as fairly distributed as possible and with as secure and long-term a framework as possible. None of the concessions we made in the Finance Act indicates that we are in goal. As I said, we want the registration fee completely gone. We want the coupling rate up to 80%. We want housing taxation to be as low as possible. However, this financial law is moving in exactly the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214133112	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments. If speaking time is respected, I think we can reach them all. We'll start with Mrs Christine Antorini.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214133120	Thank you for the floor. In other words, it was quite incredible to hear how the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance could use almost all his speaking time to talk about cars and lower registration fees with great enthusiasm. It has to be said that it is in any case clear communication to someone who has expensive cars that they have got a little on the account of the Liberal Alliance. But peace with that is actually not what I want to discuss. I want to discuss everything else that the Liberal Alliance has done and that we are a little curious to hear what the Liberal Alliance will do about the government. Something that means much more to a lot of ordinary people... people who have had a long and hard working life... is that the government with the Liberal Alliance wants to raise the retirement age further. We understand that this is what has to be done to ease the registration fee and all the gifts that the Liberal Alliance would like to give, but this affects some people who have had long, hard and physically hard work. We could understand from the Prime Minister that the Left was not entirely sure whether the retirement age would be raised by up to four years. We are curious to hear what the Liberal Alliance is working for in the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214133233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214133234	Thank you for the question. This isn't about expensive cars, I have to make that clear. I do not object to expensive cars becoming cheaper, but it is primarily about the fact that what are expensive cars in Denmark are cheap cars in other countries because we have the world's highest registration fee. First of all, it affects people with low incomes and ordinary incomes. With regard to retirement age, I would say that we think that the retirement age should be increased and we have proposed that it should be increased to 68 years and we also think that the post-retirement wage should be abolished altogether. After all, it is a system that is not in place in other countries. The two initiatives alone will achieve the objective set by the government of increasing employment by between 55 000 and 60 000 people. One might also put it this way: what happens to early retirement when you raise pensionable age? Yes, they are on early retirement for a longer period of time, when they have a higher income. This means that those who cannot work will benefit from it, but those who can work will remain in the labour market. It will create growth and prosperity that is the foundation for us to take care of those who cannot do it ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214133351	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214133352	In any case, it must be said that the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance is clear: we want to abolish the post-retirement wage and increase the retirement age further. It has to be said that maximum uncertainty has certainly been created for the many people who have no idea what the retirement age will look like. First, it was the Prime Minister who did not really want to say anything about how much it had to be increased and we already have one of the highest retirement ages in comparison with other countries in Europe and now it is the Liberal Alliance that will work for the abolition of early retirement plus a further increase in retirement age. I would just like to confirm that it is simply the efforts that the Liberal Alliance has now made in government, namely to increase the retirement age even more than the previous government has proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214133433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214133434	Liberal Alliance policy has not changed. We have the same policy today as we had three weeks ago. Now we have entered a government and the government ministers have created a basis for government. It is a compromise between the policy of the three parties and there is agreement to move in the same direction. The government will then at some point come up with a proposal which one must assume will enable one to achieve the objectives one has set itself. But some of these games, for example. We in the Liberal Alliance think that this is a good idea, because there is a need to increase employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214133513	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214133514	Thank you. I would like to ask a few questions about car taxes, because it was also a great deal in the rapporteur's speech, and I would like to say straight away that we in the Danish People's Party think it is very good that the ordinary Dane can now go out and buy himself a family car, a safer car, a more environmentally friendly car, so that you can get to and from work, because the jobs have moved and the commuting pattern has changed. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur a question. The Liberal Alliance wants to remove the registration fee completely and it is, in fact, a noble purpose to have a registration fee, but does the rapporteur not agree that the method of taking it in such a way year after year cannot be continued? Because at some point, you break up the market. People are beginning to believe that it will come year after year, and then we may risk that there will be a tendency to think that you will not have to buy a car in the last half of the year, because there will probably be a reduction in relation to the registration tax in the Finance Act next year. Then the rapporteur does not agree that you have to look at another model if you are to continue working on the idea that it should be cheaper to buy a car in Denmark, for example this model, where you look at safety equipment and environmental impact etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214133615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214133616	In fact, I would like to thank Mr. René Christensen for such a positive attitude in terms of lowering the world's highest registration fee. There are clearly some dilemmas in terms of how to do this. If you did it at once, it would destroy the market, especially the used-car market, and there would be a huge loss of capital. So when I hear what the car industry says, they say that the sensible way to do it is to do it a little at a time. However, our position is that it must be removed and, if we can agree on that, we can also talk about how we do it. Because I have to assume that in the Danish People's Party too, it is crazy to have a registration fee with a self-financing rate of 71 per cent. Well, when you lower it by 100 kroner, then they come 71 kroner. Back in the treasury again. So they are wasted for the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214133714	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214133716	Thank you for your answer. It was not quite clear whether to continue along this path, but perhaps I sense that one would like to, and it is fair enough to have that wish as a party. However, I would like to ask something quite different, and that is in relation to the retirement age, and it is very much part of the new government basis. How does the Liberal Alliance view this? There was a proposal in the previous 2025 plan that it was 1⁄2 years, and now you might expect it to be more than 1⁄2 years, perhaps 1 year, also in relation to the increase in the economy. Where does the Liberal Alliance stand there? Is there such a ceiling on how much to raise the retirement age?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214133748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214133749	We proposed in the 2025 plan we presented before the last election that it was 68 years. That would increase employment in Denmark by just over 20,000. However, it must also be seen in the light of the fact that there was in fact a wide range of parties that agreed in 2006 that the retirement age should follow life expectancy. Now we have been through the very positive development that life expectancy is increasing much faster. Thus, if the retirement age were to have followed life expectancy, today it should already be 69 years old.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214133828	Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214133829	Thank you very much. I have the impression that until a very short time ago the Liberal Alliance thought that this proposal to introduce a ceiling on dual education was a really bad idea, because it would like to have the free choice of education, and now the Liberal Alliance has come into government and has changed its position. Nevertheless, I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not really good and sensible that people have an opportunity to gain experience and then change education or profession if they find that they are actually better at something else. Why will the Liberal Alliance now help prevent people from taking more different educations?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214133918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214133919	It is true that we have never been particularly pleased with that proposal, and that is the way it is. I do not know whether the Enhedslisten will ever try to enter a government, because that requires compromises, and that is not so much in the Enhedslisten, and that is why the Enhedslisten will generally have very, very little influence over the mandates they have in the Folketing. We have chosen to step in and that means that we are making compromises. I am not a rapporteur for education, but I can see today that there is movement, including on this issue. I think that's because we've entered the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214133954	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214133956	In other words, what the rapporteur is referring to here is that more user charges are being opened up, and I can really imagine that the Liberal Alliance thinks that this is a good idea. I don't think it is. But that will not give people the same freedom as they do today. So the reality is that the Liberal Alliance is helping to limit students' opportunities to get a flexible and good education that suits them and what they can, and I think that is a very high price to pay just to be allowed to join the government. I also think it is a trend that can be seen in a number of other areas. So isn't the rapporteur a little concerned that this is going to go too far?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214134039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214134040	I do not think it is a high price to pay, and then I also think that Enhedslisten as usual does not look at the overall picture. Because it is also the case that, if you take more courses, you limit it in relation to some other courses, that is also the case. But I think that the signals that have been sent here today that there is some movement in this area and that it may be slightly altered are positive signals. But in no way do I think it is a high price for going into government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214134115	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214134116	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance and congratulations on coming into government. Now I can almost figure out that the rapporteur wants to spend a lot of time on registration fees, but I will try to start a slightly larger place. I would like to ask why the Liberal Alliance is not pushing for priority to be given to green technology, when we know that there are a great many jobs there that could benefit Denmark, and why the Liberal Alliance has not put greater pressure on entrepreneurship, so that the entrepreneurship area was forced further forward in the government's draft budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214134157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214134158	We are certainly pushing for entrepreneurship. It also fills a great deal of the government base. Unlike the alternative, we do not have such a pick-the-winner strategy, where only some forms of entrepreneurship will be promoted through public funds, which costs employment elsewhere in the economy. Our approach to entrepreneurship is that it requires proper framework conditions. This requires that there are some who are willing to invest, who will take a risk because they can see that the return, if they succeed, is greater than it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214134239	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214134239-2	Then I do not think that the financial rapporteur has read our entrepreneurial programme very carefully, but I will be happy to forward it to him. But my first part of the question was, in fact, on the green conversion and investment in green technology, in which we know that there are good jobs and that it can help generate income for Denmark. Why is it that the Liberal Alliance is not concerned at all with the green agenda, which we have therefore also endorsed in the Paris Agreement, and which we have also endorsed through the UN's 17 sustainability objectives?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214134312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214134312-2	Firstly, there is the assumption here that there is a lot of employment in the green agenda. I am not quite sure that is the case. It is certainly an industry which has been heavily dependent on large subsidies from the state and subsidies cost employment elsewhere in the economy. When you need tax dollars to support one kind of industry, the tax dollars have to go from somewhere else in the economy and it costs employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214134351	Then it's mr. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214134352	Like my honourable colleague Mrs Josephine Fock, I have also noted that the rapporteur would very much like to talk about cars. Much time has also been devoted to this. There is, however, one aspect on which the rapporteur has not spent so much time, which is also about cars, not about registration fees and which has been updated by the fact that the government came up with a proposal yesterday about Uber. In this context, there were comments from among others. The Minister of Transport, the rapporteur's party colleague, with a clear expectation that Uber would be found to be illegal. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur cannot explain why the rapporteur still believes it is necessary to support a service which is clearly on the way to becoming known illegally in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214134448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214134449	I think new technologies, new ways, new business models are quite fantastic. I note that 300,000 Danes, Copenhageners, have embraced Uber • many young people. Denmark has become a rich country because we have had an open economy where we have just been very good at taking new ways of doing things for us. I think we should continue with that and I am very pleased with the initiative that the government made yesterday. This is a good move, which will provide more competition, lower prices for consumers and greater accessibility for transport. I hope that the Social Democrats will be involved in this. I hope that the Social Democrats will not find themselves in a situation where they are going to explain to 300 000 Copenhageners, many of whom are young people, that they are a reactionary party that will not be able to welcome new technologies. I really hope not.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214134549	Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214134550	But Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, that in a situation in which a service may be found illegal by the courts of the country all the way through, as a member of the Folketing should take advantage of this service, should be a service which is not lawful? It seems to me a familiar weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214134615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214134616	It's not illegal to be a passenger in a Ubercar. Is the rapporteur absolutely sure that no member of the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group has tried to drive a Ubercar in Denmark? 'Cause I'm not.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214134637	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214134639	Thank you. More money is being given to private schools in the Finance Act. I imagine that the financial rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance is pleased about that. But I would really like to hear a little bit about the future of the Danish school system. Now the Liberal Alliance is also in the post of Minister of Education. I think that is very interesting. The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior was out to say I think it was in Politiken that in the future one could imagine opening up completely new forms of organisation, for example. open up that private companies could make money from running a kindergarten or perhaps running a school, for example. by outsourcing. That is something you have worked with before, for example. in Sweden. I just want to know if I really understood the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior whether this is something that the Financial Rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance believes should be done in the future and in future finance laws, i.e. as well as recognising a revenue to outsource and allowing private companies to make money looking after children in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214134745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214134746	The question must be addressed correctly to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. But I think that what we need to focus on in the future is to ensure that education and health are available for all citizens. It is a political objective that we have. But whoever provides that service, we're not dogmatic about. We think it would be better to put the citizen at the centre, to give the citizen options, rather than to hold onto the idea that it should be public monopolies that have to provide the service to the citizen. It's not a goal for us. The aim for us is for everyone to have access to health and education. But there should be competition, so blood sprays, in terms of providing the absolutely best service to citizens. I am not quite sure that is the case everywhere in the public sector. In many places it is very good, but in some places a little competition would be healthy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214134855	Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214134856	Thank you for a very figurative answer. What we have been able to see in some nursing homes where private companies have been contracted out, who have made money from it, is that nursing homes have then gone bankrupt or that care has gone bankrupt at all, and then the elderly have been left without help. What we have been able to see in the area of day care is that some of the companies that have made money from the children have sent their money into tax havens. So what was really just my question was whether the Liberal Alliance's financial rapporteur believes that in future we should outsource day care institutions and schools and allow private companies to make money looking after our children.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214134935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214134937	Well, we're definitely open to that. It is about the regulation that you make about it, the demands you make about it. But I cannot understand why it is an end in itself that there should be a public monopoly to provide these services. I simply do not understand that. The goal must be for people to have access to service. When there is a market, it brings diversity. For example, you have. in Germany. There are nursing homes for people who are football interested; there are nursing homes for homosexuals. It gives diversity that there is competition and that citizens can choose for themselves. I guess public nursing homes are also having problems sometimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214135018	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214135020	Thank you. After all, it was a warm greeting to the public employees that they must compete so that the blood sprays. But now we have to talk about whether working is worthwhile. Nor should we avoid that today. I will start at the end of the day by informing the rapporteur that the minimum wage for industry is DKK 113. And 65 cents an hour. It pays a month's salary and all the figures are before tax • 18,221 DKK. For comparison, the daily allowance rate is DKK 18.113. This minimum wage must be added to a number of fixed allowances, which can be made up in kroner and ear, pension, free choice account, holiday holidays and holiday money, together a plus of 25%. or DKK 4,555, so that the total economic gain by getting a job at the industrial minimum wage is DKK 22,776. and 25 øre per. month before tax. In comparison, the rate of cash benefits for a single person is DKK 10,968. And for a breadwinner, the rate is DKK 14,575. And 25 cents. Does the rapporteur agree that it has always been worthwhile to take a job for a cash aid recipient at the minimum wage of industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214135144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214135145	No, I certainly do not agree that it is always worthwhile for cash benefit recipients to work. If you are a single social worker without children no problems. Work pays off. If you are a provider of cash benefits, what you get from working is very, very little. And, of course, pensions can be included, but if that logic holds, we could also introduce compulsory pension payments for cash benefits. Then the value of the cash benefits would be the same. Of course you would have reduced your available amount, but the value of the cash aid would be the same. And according to Enhedslisten this should not be a problem at all, because it is the total value you look at, and not what you get from it from month to month. I don't think Enhedslisten means that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214135231	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214135232	Does the rapporteur not want to deal with that difference? And let's just discuss the single breadwinner over 30 years. Here's a prize of DKK 8,201. and 25 cents by getting a job for the industry's minimum wage, if we include those supplements. And even if we take them off, there'll still be a big difference. That is the real economic gain. When the rapporteur talks about the fact that it does not pay for the single parent, it is because the rapporteur includes all kinds of subsidies that can be obtained from the public sector, housing insurance, family allowances, etc., to which the low-paid person is also entitled under the industrial agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214135314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214135316	That is quite simply incorrect. They are also included, of course, they must be included, that is clear. But when you had a situation before the cash benefits ceiling, where you agreed a minimum wage on the labour market, and you got 1,000 kroner. out of it • 1,000 kr. the month, so that it is not worthwhile to work. Not all groups only received 1,000 kroner. out of it, but it was breadwinners who got very, very little out of it. We could see by looking out in reality that for those groups with a very high level of compensation, up to 90%. and higher, then employment was considerably lower than for those groups with a lower level of compensation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214135402	Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214135403	Thank you. I hear something about citizen-friendly welfare, I hear something about the fact that people should not be burdened with extra burdens, that citizens should have choice, and that is why it is proposed to abolish the post-retirement pay and increase the retirement age. Where I come from, I know a lot of dock workers, a lot of unskilled people who work, from 17 years of age, people who do not, as part of this, train until they are close to 30 years of age, they have actually worked since they were 17 years old. I have to ask the rapporteur: where are their free choices? Where are these people who have worked hard since they were 17 years old? Where is their free choice? And why do they have to have this extra burden for some of the Liberal Alliance and others to drive in expensive cars? I can't explain it to them, but if Mr. Beckett... Joachim B. Olsen can, I'd love to hear it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214135452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214135453	After all, it is fantastic to hear the Social Democracy problematizing that reforms of, for example, are being put in place. withdrawal. Social democracy was opposed to those reforms, but they gladly used the room for manoeuvre created by the reforms. The reforms against which the Social Democratic Party was opposed have now made the Danish economy manageable and that it is doing well in the Danish economy. We are then about to end up in a situation where employment, structural employment, is again so low that there are bottlenecks in the labour market, just as in the '00s. And we know what happened when we didn't act in time, didn't make reforms in time, then. It hurt those very people, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen is talking about. So it is irresponsible when the Social Democratic Party is proposing that there should be no reform. It's irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214135553	Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214135554	On the other hand, I think it is totally irresponsible that the rapporteur and the Liberal Alliance are virtually unaware of these people and do not see how difficult it is for them to know that they have to work x years longer in the future when they have worked for so many years since they were 17 years old. What the hell are these people gonna do? I haven't heard a single bid from the Liberal Alliance. They just say they have to work longer, and then you do it for them. So that's not what these people feel, because they just can't see themselves working for so many years, because it can't be done. And I just have to have a bid from the Liberal Alliance on that, and I think these people want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214135629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214135630	If you can't work, you're sick and worn out, you don't have to work. Nobody has suggested that you have to work if you cannot work. But the reality is that you see that the groups which do not pay early retirement and that the groups which go on early retirement have the same state of health. We see in these years that the group for which employment rises most is precisely the 60-year-olds they remain in employment. So that's it, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen says is simply not right. That's not what's happening out there in the real world. There we see that these people remain in employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214135709	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214135711	Thank you. We had here a few days ago a presentation of the Financial Statement. We looked at it and one of the things that was emphasised by the new minister was the high level of employment and low levels of unemployment that we are currently seeing and which the rapporteur has also mentioned. And in the Finance Committee, we asked what would happen • I come back to why it is relevant here in the Chamber • if the growth in public consumption goes down from 0.8%. At least a large proportion of those who had to be fired when they went so drastically. I understand perfectly well that this is the policy of the Liberal Alliance, so as such it is not, but would the rapporteur not recognise that the employment picture we are currently seeing will look significantly different by 0.3 per cent.?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214135825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214135826	I might ask, on the other hand, what happens to employment in companies, in the private sector, if public consumption is high? In other words, the people who have to work in the public sector cannot work in the private sector at the same time. That's the consideration you have to take. If employment increases significantly in the public sector, there will be a shortage of labour in the private sector, but in the SF there may be no concern about the private sector and its shortage of labour? I think that's weird, because that's exactly what you didn't do through the '00s. It led to ruined competitiveness. This led us to become significantly poorer when the crisis hit us. Now, in the SF, the same kind of irresponsibility is being set up, although we can again see from the figures that there is pressure on the labour market. I think that's too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214135928	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214135929	No, that is, what made us significantly poorer when the crisis exploded was that there was a completely unregulated financial sector and there was an overheated housing market, so when the Rangvid Committee had to make its report, the main conclusion was that the then VK government had failed completely with economic policy. That was the main reason. But here I am asking about the economic projections that will be made as a result of the difference in growth of 0.3%. and a growth of 0.8%, i.e. whether the rapporteur really believes that educators, SOSUs and nurses will jump directly into the financial sector or the legal profession or in a carpenter's business or whatever it is. Will it be directly 1:1 in the rapporteur's optics?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140017	I think the rapporteur should re-read the Rangvid report because it makes it very clear that the fiscal policy pursued over-public consumption, etc. On the other hand, it is not the case that nurses and educators only work in the public sector. Over the last few decades, we have seen a very, very large increase in the level of administrative staff in the public sector. So those people can work in the private sector, and I think that they will also do more good and create more growth there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140101	Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140102	Thank you. This is just a follow-up to the questions put by Mrs Josephine Fock to the rapporteur on precisely this issue of renewable energy, green technology. Does the rapporteur not recognise that the European Commission is counting on 20 million jobs in this area? The rapporteur does not recognise that in 2015 we in Denmark actually supported the fossil industry with DKK 7,662. per Dane? Is this something that the Liberal Alliance might then also phase out completely in the new energy reconciliation, or how is that to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140140	You have to look at the other side of the coin. If the alternative got 10 billion. kr., 10 billion tax dollars, then the alternative could create a lot of employment, but it would not increase employment because it would cost employment elsewhere in the economy. That's how it works. This has also been clearly demonstrated by the wise men in the past. What we then say about green energy and green technology is that we need to focus more on technology neutrality. Instead of us sitting here identifying the technologies to be supported, we should say that we want to buy a certain amount of green energy, but what technologies deliver it must be less important.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140242	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140242-2	Well, now that we are already providing subsidies from the state, that is, supporting the fossil industry with DKK 7,662. per Danes are more than Norway, it is more than Finland, it is more than the Netherlands, it is more than Sweden, is Liberal Alliance so willing to say that we should not support it, because we can actually create some other jobs in green technology instead of moving on with an industry that is not future-proof? So, are we willing to bet on the future and say that we should not use funds to subsidise a fossil industry, but rather bet on what is the future for both our planet and for people?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140323	I hope the rapporteur can hear for himself what he is saying. When you say that every Dane supports with DKK 7,000, it is then DKK 7,000 that the Dane cannot use elsewhere in the economy, where they would also have created jobs. So overall it does not lead to higher employment. I mean, that's how an economy works.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140344	Then it's mr. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140345	Thank you. I have to return to a question raised a little earlier about Uber and the fact that the government has now played out with a new proposal for taxi legislation. In this regard, the rapporteur's party colleague, the Minister for Transport, said that he considered Uber to be illegal in its present form. Then I am a little uncertain as to how this should be understood and how the rapporteur will explain that we should still be able to use Uber as a member of the House. I would really like to explain how this is connected, in other words that we in the legislature support a project which the Minister of Transport, the rapporteur's own party colleague, believes is illegal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140427	But as I remember, yesterday the Minister of Transport said that it is not illegal to be a passenger in a Ubercar. By the way, I also have the words of the former Minister of Justice that it is not. So you can problematize it, but it is moralizing, because there is no one among the 300 000 Copenhageners who are using Uber, who are doing anything illegal at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140456	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140457	I would really like to hear more about that. Even if we agree that it is not illegal to be a passenger, we agree that we support a service on which we, as legislators, have made some rules that mean that it is illegal. Then I just want to hear what that light is, it puts it in. What is supported? And, by the way, are there other areas of society where it is not personally illegal, but where it is supported by an illegal industry? Is this an expression of how the rapporteur thinks we should operate it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140534	We live in a state governed by the rule of law. There have been some cases against some drivers. The verdict on the drivers has been appealed. So there has, of course, been a process that is doing in a well-functioning constitutional state. Now there is a concrete proposal on the table, which I personally think is a really, really good one. I have some doubts as to what S means, but I hope that S will take it very well, because if I am going to say something positive, it is my view that S has historically been a party that has been willing to embrace new technologies in recognition of the fact that it has helped make Denmark a rich country.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140621	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140624	Thank you. While we are discussing the 2017 Finance Act, there is a real tragedy in Aleppo. After all, the Liberal Alliance now has the position of Foreign Minister, which is why I would like to ask the rapporteur whether, in view of the new situation in Aleppo, the government has considered whether the Folketing should consider sending an extraordinary new humanitarian contribution to help the civilian victims in Aleppo. I ask that, of course, because tomorrow we will have the Minister of Finance in consultation, because the government apparently does not intend to spend the saved money on fewer asylum seekers for Denmark this year for just emergency aid, but apparently it is only going to send them to 2017. So there is actually some money to do well because we have had fewer asylum seekers than we expected this year. And we are thinking that with the situation in Aleppo right now, it might be that the government would consider an extra time, if instead of just putting the money in its pocket, perhaps they should be used where they are most needed right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140735	Well, it's a tragedy and a humanitarian disaster, what's going on in Aleppo right now. But I do not represent the government, I represent the Liberal Alliance, and I am sure that Mr. Martin Lidegaard has plenty of opportunities to ask about the government's position on this question. However, the policy of the Liberal Alliance is that we very much want to help in the neighbourhood, and we have set aside a great deal of funding for this in our 2025 plan. So I could imagine but that's just what I imagine it might be something that the Secretary of State also stressed. But it is right that this question should be put to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140818	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140819	That's fair enough. Let me ask the Liberal Alliance if they think it is reasonable when the number of asylum seekers in Denmark falls from estimated 10,000 to what the government now thinks is approx. 6,000, that is, a drop of 4,000 asylum seekers, and when the former Foreign Minister has guaranteed that every penny saved on fewer asylum seekers in Denmark should instead be spent on emergency aid and development aid, that one extra penny would not be allocated to development aid and emergency aid, even though the number of asylum seekers has fallen by 4,000. I do not believe that this is linked to me, but I understand that it is not really related to the Liberal Alliance either. Of course, the money we do not spend on asylum seekers in Denmark should be spent on help in the neighbourhoods. Apparently, we agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140906	Sir. Martin Lidegaard may know better than anyone that foreign policy is something that changes very, very quickly, that you take stock of the situations and, unfortunately, sometimes disasters that occur, and then you correct your efforts. The previous government did. I think this government is doing the same, but I cannot, on behalf of the government, say what initiatives they are going to launch. But foreign policy is by its very nature, and especially in such conflicts here, something where things change very, very quickly, and then the government usually takes stock of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140949	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214140952	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance's rapporteur is very concerned to limit the increase in public spending, so that money can stay out of business or in the pockets of the citizens and what else we hear. However, I would like to hear what is being said about defence expenditure, because the Liberal Alliance has entered a government where there is great ambition to increase public expenditure in defence. Everything has just done a study that shows that it is under one in three Danes who think that this is a good idea.Of course, it corresponds in number to that part of the population who supports the current government parties. But I just want to know if this reluctance to increase public expenditure also applies to defence. For seen with Liberal Alliance glasses is 1 kr. More for the defense the 1 kr. more for public consumption and thus 1 DKK. less to business and Liberal Alliance's other friends. So how many more billions are to be spent on public spending, on defence?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214141100	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214141101	So it is not the case that we in the Liberal Alliance think that all public spending is just bad; we do not. For even if we put forward a 2025 plan where we want to reduce public consumption by 1%. For seven years, we will still have huge public spending, the fifth highest in the world, as far as I remember. As regards the previous question, defence expenditure is also linked to how the world develops. At least in the Liberal Alliance, we can see that it seems quite reasonable that we are now arming up our defences. In some respects, the world has become more uncertain, including the neighbourhoods, so it would also be sensible, in our opinion, to ensure that we have a strong defence. And that may also mean that it is sensible to add more resources to the defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214141208	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214141209	Now one might ask whether the experience of recent decades has shown that increased military action has made the world a more peaceful place, a safer place or perhaps the opposite. It is not the case that the world's greatest defence power has been able to do much about the disaster that has occurred in Aleppo. But I think this is interesting, because I know that the Liberal Alliance is not against all public expenditure, but it is usually against rising public expenditure. I mean, if someone came in and suggested spending 4 billion. kr. to a better older sector or 4 billion. kr. To create proper conditions for the unemployed, I believe that the Liberal Alliance would be all the way up in the red, but obviously not in the defence field.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214141251	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214141252	But Enhedslisten is not for all public consumption either. I have to understand, sir. Pelle Dragsted, that at least one is not too public consumption when it comes to defence; there one would like to have less public consumption. That is how we have our priorities. It is a key task for a state to protect its citizens, to protect its citizens' freedom and independence. That is why you have a defence, and if there is a need to add more resources, and there may well be some open-mindedness to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214141329	If it is the case that speaking time is respected, then we will make the last two brief comments. If we don't, we'll only get to Mrs. Lea Wermelin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214141336	Then I'll hurry. I would like to return to the fact that we have a Minister for Transport who has been out to say that it is expected that Uber will be convicted of driving illegally. Then we have a rapporteur from the same party as the Minister who now says that he is going to continue driving with Uber. But it is the case that we have some rules on the Danish labour market and that we have taxi legislation. We can, of course, discuss this, and I understand that the Liberal Alliance wants to change the rules, but until they are changed, it must be the case that the rules on which a majority has agreed in this Parliament must be followed. However, when the rapporteur supports those who do not comply with the rules, does the rapporteur not also support the need for taxi drivers, for example, to break the taxi law? Isn't that what's in it, too? If the rapporteur gets involved in an Uber, is that not the same as saying that the taxi driver should also break the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214141436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214141436-2	Can the questioner mention what law I break when I get into an Uber, or what law 300,000 other Danes break when they get into an Uber?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214141448	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214141450	After all, the rapporteur deliberately does not respond to what I am asking. Because I am saying precisely that the Minister of Transport says that Uber will be declared illegal. If the rapporteur then supports driving with something that we know to be illegal, then it may be that the rapporteur does not do anything illegal, but the rapporteur calls for the law to be broken so that those driving with Uber should follow that example and that taxi drivers should also break the law. Does the rapporteur not agree with that? And is it also true in all other areas that it is quite free to say that if you do not agree with the legislation, then it is quite all right to break it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214141526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214141527	I think you should abide by the law, and I respect the law. Then everything else is moralized. And then I am really glad that a new taxi legislation has now been proposed. I hope that the Social Democrats will support this, and that is what is really interesting here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214141548	The last brief remark is to Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214141551	Thank you. It was mostly because the rapporteur said earlier that the public sector must compete so that blood sprays. It's a picturesque, but maybe a pretty precise expression. In the public health sector, it is true that this productivity requirement has been in force since 2003. There has been a productivity increase in public health services of 2.4 per cent, whereas in the private sector over the same period there has been a productivity increase of 0.6 per cent, i.e. not just over 2 or 3 years, but generally over the past 12 years. This means that public health has delivered a productivity increase which is significantly higher than what has been done in the private sector. It has then also had the consequences of, for example, the fact that, for example, there is an increase in the number of young people in the Community. more than every other nurse does not think you can deliver a good professional quality in the work you do, and one in three feels you are stressed when you are at work. We are experiencing it right now in the field of psychiatry, where there are employees who have been killed in their work because mentally ill people have not been able to get the help they need, and we have seen it in the maternity wards. So it is just that I have to ask: where is the productivity to be gained by competing so that the blood sprays?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214141702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214141703	I didn't tell public servants to compete, so the blood sprays. I asked why, when there is competition on the market to win consumer favor, to provide the best service, the best products, then some of the most important services such as education and health must be excluded from competition when we know that competition provides better service, lower prices, higher productivity, which moreover leads to higher wages for those working in those industries. It is true that the public health sector has had major productivity increases, but this will also be seen in the light of the fact that the starting point was different. There was room for productivity increases in the public sector, as it had not been under any pressure of efficiency until this 2-percent requirement was placed on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214141803	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214141804	After all, we are talking about productivity increases of 2.4%. a year, which has taken place over the past 12 years, with a figure of 0.6% in the private sector at the same time. This means that today the hospital is delivering 30%. More benefits than were received 12 years ago. Then the rapporteur may well think that this is just something that needs to be done naturally, but we see the consequences today. The rapporteur could go in and read the reports from the Labour Inspectorate on the conditions in the hospital departments. It speaks its clear and clear language. And then the rapporteur says that there must be more competition and that more must be delivered.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214141843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214141845	The public sector had a different starting point for delivering productivity increases than the private sector had, because there was already very, very great competition and had been for a long time. There are also productivity problems in the private sector. You have to look at the starting point. It is also easier for a poor country to achieve high productivity gains than a very prosperous and highly developed country. It is not true that there is a link between higher productivity and poorer working conditions. If you look at the private sector, you can see that there are lower sickness absences, there is greater satisfaction and there is high productivity.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214141927	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. Time has passed and we are moving on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214141939	Thank you. Last week, when we debated the new government base in this Chamber, several colleagues asked for the parties in the opposition to present a plan for the society of the future. But in the alternative, we have actually put forward a plan. A month ago, we presented an ambitious and well-drafted financial bill, moving around 120 billion. kr. from, as we say, black to green, from rich to poor and from individual to community. Because that is how we want to create a serious, sustainable transformation of Danish society as a whole. However, since several of my colleagues are actually asking for this, I would like to take this opportunity to say a little bit about what the Financial Bill of the Alternative is actually about. I should also like to say that it is permissible to be inspired by our proposals. In general, there should be no doubt that the alternative's plan is to create a greener, more entrepreneurial and less unequal society, a society with positive figures on the economic, social and green bottom line. In order to ensure positive figures on the economic bottom line, we propose among other things. to phase out the housing tax freeze, to introduce a tax on financial transactions and to lower the tax on work for the lowest paid. We do so because we want to ensure and strengthen and stabilise the economic and social sustainability of society and because it will reduce inequality if we do so. After all, the government itself has committed itself to this by agreeing to work for the UN's 17 sustainability targets. It is also important for the alternative that we have a much more entrepreneurial and innovative society. That is why we are ready to increase investment in education, research and entrepreneurship. In concrete terms, for example, we want to do so. abolish the drive reform. We want to increase the research reserve and we want to make it more attractive to invest in and start an entrepreneurial business. Among other things: we propose to introduce a higher deduction for entrepreneurial investment, which we look forward to discussing in the new year when we are tabling it as a resolution. In relation to the social bottom line, we will abolish the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit, because these measures create more poverty than they create jobs. However, efforts to strengthen social sustainability are about much more than economics. It is also about well-being, quality of life and public health. Unfortunately, Denmark has gone back in several areas in recent years, but fortunately we can do something about that if we want to, and we would like to do so in the alternative. We will work to ensure that more of what is healthy becomes cheaper, while more of what is unhealthy may cost more. This is true, for example. the levy on soft drinks and cigarettes, which we would like to raise instead of spending the money on lowering the prices of fruit and vegetables. The latter, by the way, is something I know Conservative politicians have spoken about in the past. Compared to the green bottom line, this is of course where the alternative has the greatest focus. From both an economic and a climate perspective, it makes sense for us to increase investment in the green, because we need to take the climate crisis seriously, but also because it will be here that the sustainable jobs of the future need to be created. In our draft budget, we have set aside 10 billion. kr. We are also proposing to increase investment in solar cells, green energy technology, heat pumps, geothermal and ecology, as well as a lot of other things that will strengthen the green transition. In addition, we want to create a more intelligent tax system in which we raise taxes on what pollutes the most, for example. gas and air travel, and lowers them on what we would like more of, for example. electric cars. The alternative's financial bill shows that it is easy to strengthen the social and green bottom line without harming the economy. Our proposal is both realistic and visionary, and it is fully funded. In fact, it says a great deal about the fact that we in Denmark can of course afford to take care of each other properly. We can afford the green transition and we can afford education and afford culture. Yeah, I guess it just shows that as one of the richest countries in the world, we can, of course, afford it if we want to. That's not usually the story we hear from the government from this platform. We are talking here about the policy of necessity, the lack of money in the box and the need to cut for advice. It is also clear from the draft budget that culture and education will be cut. In particular, the students in the country's production schools are hit extra hard. We think that is a shame, because it means that some of these young people may never ever get an education. When we look at what the money is going to be spent on, then we have to say that the alternative disagrees with a great many of the priorities set out in the government's draft budget, among other things. That is to say, cutting education and culture to spend money on lowering registration fees and freezing the ground debt. Nevertheless, this is the kind of priority we have seen before, just as we have seen a Danish government carry out tough alien tightenings that are not only at odds with Denmark's international commitments, but which also damage Denmark's international reputation. And now we see it again. Here I just have to say it as it is: if Denmark, as one of the richest and most prosperous countries in the world, cannot take more than nine quota refugees this year in a situation where the number of asylum seekers has not been lower for five years, and if, at the same time, we continue to cut development aid, when it has never been more important in the world's many hotspots, then we are still away a rich country economically, but we are very poor in empathy and meaning. At the same time, the idea of spending an even greater proportion of development funds on dealing with refugees in Denmark does not improve the situation. Honestly, we find it difficult to understand the trend. Because one has to ask the government whether this kind of priority is due to the fact that it believes that the need for development aid in the world has diminished, or it believes that development aid creates greater value when we use it at home than if we use it in the world. In general terms, on the government's draft budget, we had hoped for some major visions for the social and environmental bottom line. We lack a greater desire and a greater courage to take the major challenges seriously. We lack more courage to think new, wild and visionary in terms of how we together create more meaningful lives, a better society and a healthier planet. Last time, a year ago, when I stood on the floor on the same occasion, I asked the then Finance Minister what kind of society he dreamed of in the future. I would actually like to ask the same question to our new Finance Minister and congratulations on the job, by the way. Unfortunately, we do not see that courage and vision in the current draft budget, and that is why the alternative must turn its thumbs down to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214142750	Thank you very much. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Danny K. Malkowski.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214142753	Thank you. We very often hear the alternative talk about wanting a new political culture without spin and bypass. So I would now like to give the rapporteur the chance to prove that when you have been elected, that is, based on green policy. After all, the economic wise men have a few years ago, among other things. The Committee on Energy, Research and Technology, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, stressed that the abolition of all future support for renewable energy could increase employment in Denmark by 5 000 people. At the same time, there are also several European studies which indicate that investments in one green workplace cost between 2.3 and 7 jobs outside the green sector. So would the alternative not well confirm and acknowledge that it actually reduces employment by spending state aid on green renewable energy? Secondly, I would also like to ask if I may ask something about the entrepreneurial initiative, as the rapporteur mentioned earlier when she asked our financial rapporteur. There is talk both of entrepreneurship and of state-funded incubators, and there is also talk of investing particularly in green entrepreneurs. Is it the alternative's view that improving entrepreneurship will be achieved only by increasing the number of entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214142902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214142904	In fact, I am not quite sure that I understood the last part of the question. So I'd like to answer that, but I'm not sure what it was all about. But with regard to the first part on jobs, I think the interesting thing is the question that my fellow rapporteur followed up with in relation to the investment that is today, where we support the fossil industry by DKK 7 600, I think, per year. Danish citizen. So we can at least start by abolishing it. In addition, however, we can see when we invest and also make public investment in jobs in general, whether it be green technology or not green technology, that it is also some of the things that increase employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214142945	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214142947	Thank you. Let me elaborate on the last question. It is a question of using state aid to invest massively in entrepreneurship, and it may increase the number of entrepreneurs, among others. by putting entrepreneurial benefits on the agenda, among other things. by granting State aid to a lot of companies. However, I myself am an entrepreneur with four companies, one of which, among other things, is one of them. has invested in wave energy, two in software. Will the alternative dare to claim that investing with state aid will achieve more entrepreneurs and will also achieve better entrepreneurs, in other words more entrepreneurial successes? How do you prove it? Is it by saying pick the winner compared to e.g. to say that you are investing in a project that is green technology? But what if one of the software companies I work with, for example. Is creating a new algorithm that ends up improving the climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214143031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214143032	Then I think I understand the question. In other words, what we want with our entrepreneurial proposal is to get more entrepreneurs; it is to increase the incentive to get more entrepreneurs. We believe that entrepreneurs are some of those who can help make the sustainable transformation of Denmark. It's entrepreneurs who have the good ideas about being creative and so on. the questioner knows for himself. And there is what we are saying that we would like to use public investment to boost it, that we are thinking in our heads at all more entrepreneurship. That is one of the things we would also like to call for in our education system and so on. gets much more and more focus on, i.e. on entrepreneurship in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214143113	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214143115	Thank you, and thank you for a very good rapporteur's speech, and I would also like to thank you for having actually delivered a financial act which was truly visionary and thought-provoking. I think that is one of the things that has been a great pleasure in getting the alternative in here. For the discussion on whether public growth should be 0.5 or 0.6%. A year may get a little dull as the years go by, and this also provides an opportunity to debate the content of it. There I have just one objection to the fact that we want to shift taxation from labour income to negative consumption, we can say, that is, pollution and other things. There is, of course, if we tax things we want to disappear, firstly, the challenge of the fact that funding will run out as we remove that behaviour, and secondly, there will be some negative incentives to eliminate that behaviour. We have seen it with the Tribulation Commission a few years ago, which said that investing in public transport is not at all worthwhile because we then lose revenue from registration fees, driving fees, fuel taxes and so on. So how does the Alternative view the solution to that problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214143233	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214143235	That is absolutely right. What we are doing is saying that we are beginning to tax resources and, in return, we are reducing the tax on low incomes and the calculations we have used and we have done so with good advice. I mean, if you, for example... Does the levy on beef increase by so much and so much so that we have introduced a tax? How much does it reduce the purchase and consumption of it? It is absolutely true that the more you raise the tax, the less you buy people, and therefore there is a balance, and that is the balance we have put in here in relation to the cost and the income we get in. But this is a draft budget which runs for four years, which means that we will re-evaluate the situation in four years' time and then look at the status. Have we moved enough, for example, to reduce the consumption of beef? Should we increase the tax on it so that we lower the consumption of it even more? And if so, how are we going to pull the money in somewhere else? We will then be allowed to decide on that in four years' time, when we look at how things have turned out.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214143354	Thank you. I just need to figure out how things work here after the shift in the chair. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214143411	Thank you very much, and of course you have to land in the chair. I think that is right: we cannot, of course, plan this far forward, but still. Some very large changes to the tax system will be made and, as I understand the alternative from some other interviews, it is like the vision that some of the tax revenue from income tax is to be reduced in the future and then increased in this with resources. But when you see, for example... If we increase the tax on petrol and at the same time have a vision of a rapid phasing-out of fossil fuels, then we will probably have to have a large source of income to finance our welfare society in a relatively short period of time. Are we going to go out and, if I may say so, tax incomes again, and is it not going to be a little up and down with income tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214143501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214143502	No, it doesn't. In other words, what has been important to us in relation to this budget proposal we have made has been that it is in balance and that it is also in balance in that people with lower incomes are not going to pay for everything, if that is the case. Because it is clear that people with low incomes also drive cars, they also buy cigarettes, they also buy spirits, etc. That's why we've figured it out in relation to the tax department's five family types, and so we've lowered the tax on work at the bottom, so these people actually end up in a plus. And we're not gonna juggle about the fact that things aren't connected. As I said, this is a four-year game, and then we'll follow how it goes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214143549	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214143603	Let me start my rapporteur's speech positively. When the Prime Minister presented his new three-clover government, it happened with a svada that it was a new government that will work for the next generation that will take care of young people, children and their education, and that will work for the future of Denmark at all. It could be the words of the Radicals. Those are the words of the Radicals. That is also what we are concerned about, and we are glad that the Prime Minister is also concerned about this. But then, unfortunately, the positive tone stops too, because when we look at what kind of finance law the Prime Minister and his Finance Minister are now planning to implement for Denmark, we just have to say that at every possible level, this finance law works in exactly the opposite direction to what is in the interest of the next generation. Let me start out in the big world, as I think it is impossible to stand here today without addressing the tragic situation in Aleppo, where hundreds of thousands of civilians are run on the run. It's a city that's turned into a real death trap. We cannot do much about this situation here and now, but what we can do immediately is, of course, to send more help to the civilian victims in Aleppo. And we on the radical side will also try to obtain support in the Folketing for more money to be sent urgently to humanitarian aid to Aleppo. Because we have that money. One thing is that the government has cut the Danish development aid significantly, but the aid that is left is increasingly being used to provide assistance to whom? To Denmark itself. For an increasing proportion of the aid is used to cover the costs of refugees in Denmark. In recent months, the figure for estimated asylum seekers in Denmark has gone from 10,000 to 6,000, and yet the government has not allocated a penny more to Danish development aid and emergency aid to the neighbourhood than they did two months ago. We owe that money to the civilian victims in Aleppo, and if the government had decency, it would have the money sent down now. It is not only in our interest, in the interest of Aleppo's children, it is also in the interests of our own children, because we need to use our assistance to bring about greater stability and peace in the world. When it comes to the environment and climate, this government has, it has to be said, stopped regulating our agriculture. There has been a significant drop in nature objectives, and one had a desire to completely destroy the energy agreement that has made Denmark famous all over the world and given Danish consumers cheaper and greener energy and electricity in the sockets. We are pleased that we managed to reach an agreement on the PSO, which saved the energy settlement, and now we can welcome the fact that even the Liberal Alliance supports the energy settlement and the green transition in Denmark. That is wonderful, but it was not with the good will of the government, and it can be said that this is not a priority for the government. However, of all the savings that affect the next generation in Denmark, the main savings on education are the worst. However, how can a liberal government cut 2%? per year for all eternity on the country's youth education? It is savings that affect surgical precision in Denmark's outlying districts, where there are already declining pupil numbers, where these savings risk leading to outright closures of both secondary schools and vocational schools. And how can one believe that Denmark's future is guaranteed by making the most massive savings in education in recent times? It is a mystery to us in the Radical Left. Add to this the educational ceiling, which thus makes it impossible to grow people in Denmark to qualify if they have one education in advance, to, you might say, develop themselves and unlock their full potential, but indeed the full potential of society also frees up its own resources, but also Denmark's resources. That a liberal government is putting a brake on that for a mere 300 million. We are going to oppose this proposal with beaks and claws, even if our friends from the Social Democratic Party also support this proposal for mysterious reasons. Add to that the 7 000 children affected by the ceiling on cash benefits and the integration benefit that the government has implemented. It is also not exactly something that benefits children and young people in Denmark. Add to that that there is a need for future public growth of only 0.3 per cent, although only demographic development, that is, the ageing of the population, the increased need for help in relation to health, will only say that we should have a public growth rate of 0.6 per cent. And then we haven't even got a qualitative growth on top of that. It's hard to see that this is a government trying to do something good for the next generation. It is, in fact, with surgical precision all the areas that point into the future, all the areas that really matter to our children that this government is cutting down on. And what it spends money on, what it will spend money on is defence and older, not just the weakest elderly, but generally older, and that is not exactly something that will benefit the next generation. I ask myself, when I talk to the elderly in my family, what it really is that matters to the older generation here in Denmark. I think it matters to them what kind of future their children and grandchildren are looking into. It means more and more, the older you get. And I wonder if the elderly in our population are also looking at with concern as day care institutions, primary schools, colleges, universities, higher education and professional education are cut loose all the way around. That is why the Radical Left has tabled one major amendment to this budget law, but perhaps there will be one more. But what we have been asking is to give 1 billion. kr. extra, what we call a future billion, to support all the places where children and young people receive education from ABC to PhD, from day care institutions to upper secondary education to universities. We are financing crowns for crowns, so that the amendments we are proposing go to zero. Then we have also drawn up a 2025 plan that will allow us to support a number of other proposals that other parties have put forward. It doesn't go to zero, but you need funding, so look at our 2025 plan, because there's funding crown to crown. It can actually be done, even if you want to pursue a responsible policy for the sake of our children and grandchildren, also to give priority to what you invest in and what it is you spend the money on. And this government doesn't use the money wisely. This government is not pointing into the future, it is pointing back.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214144325	Thank you. There are some comments. First, it's sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214144340	Thank you and thank you for a fine speech from the rapporteur. I would like to ask a few questions about the retirement age, which is one of the things that divides the Enhedslisten and the Radicals. I understand the intention of increasing working hours. At least that is what you think you can get a few more hands on the labour market, and there is something with some generations that can go faster than others. But the problem with the pension system we have is that it has a built-in marked inequality. If we look at unskilled people, we see that they will have much less time to retire when we raise retirement age than people with higher education. It is clear that the inequality will then also include these new groups, which Radicals will include from the new higher retirement age. So my question is actually quite simple: is it a reasonable pension system that we have set up where the academic who starts working at the age of 32 can retire as quickly or as late as the unskilled or skilled person who has started his apprenticeship at 17 or 18 years old?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214144450	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214144453	After all, a broad majority in the Folketing has decided to raise the pensionable age to 68 by 2030. What the Radicals' proposal is about is that instead of doing so by 2030, it will be done in 2025. Why do we want to do that? We want to do so because we have two other areas on which we really want to give priority and on which we think the money is better spent. One is that if older people reach an age of e.g. 63 years and the retirement age is 68 years, five years before retirement, and if they are worn out and have problems, then we think it should be easier to go to a senior early retirement pension than it is today. We think it should be enough to go down and get a medical certificate instead of having to go through a wide range of trials and visits, etc., as is the case today. It costs something to give it to the unskilled, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted is talking about, and that is one of the reasons why we want to find that money. One of the other things we would like to spend money on is education. It is not just training for young people, so we will have fewer unskilled people in the future, and hence fewer, who are being worn out; it is indeed also for the further training of those who today have an unskilled job, but which we might give another chance in working life so that they did not get worn out and did not get as short a life as they really do today, which I fully agree with is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214144620	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214144621	Thank you. Well, as I said, I understand the thinking behind it, and I also know that a majority has adopted it. As you know, it was not a majority that Enhedslisten was part of. But my fundamental question is: is it reasonable for someone with a short or no education to have nine years' pensionable life, while a person with a longer higher education may have, for example, nine years' pension? 15 years, just because it is people who have different educational backgrounds? That is, of course, the consequence of the pension system we have today. And a later early retirement will help people who have become ill. But let's talk about people who aren't sick, but who just have a shorter lifespan. They are healthy, and they want to have an otium as healthy as academics have. Is it a reasonable pension system we have set up? That is my question to Mr. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214144713	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214144714	Well, that is an expression that we are still away in Denmark, even though we are one of the most equal societies in the world, have inequality, and of course we should try to contain it in every possible way. That is why we propose that, if you are healthy and bodily, you can provide an extra performance, and then let us ask people to do so. For all groups, including those such as Mr. Pelle Dragsted talks about now, fortunately lives longer. Then we have money to try to reduce the number of people who die too soon and people who get worn out. But if you are going to make that effort and if you are going to try to shut down that inequality, you have to invest in what you have to invest in some education and allow people to change their careers along the way. It's gonna take some money. That is why we say: we who can, why should we not be able to take 6 more months?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214144802	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214144805	Sir. Martin Lidegaard spoke about the terrible situation in Aleppo, and that is a view that we share, but I hope that Mr. Martin Lidegaard would like to commend the government and the financial agreement that lies in view of the fact that it will result in an historically high level of community effort. Never before has there been so much money spent on the community effort as on the draft budget, which I hope will soon be adopted. Sir. Martin Lidegaard then says in his speech that we can afford to do more because the number of asylum seekers in Denmark has fallen. But let me ask: is it with the efforts of the Radicals that the number of asylum seekers has fallen? Or is it perhaps due to the fact that there are some other parties here in the Folketing who have helped to tighten up the area of foreigners and which that route has helped to ensure that the number of asylum seekers has come down and that we have thus saved some money in that account? Maybe it's just handsome enough that Mr. Simpson... Martin Lidegaard will not be helping to tighten up the area of foreigners and thus ensure a lower number of asylums, but he wants to help spend the money around the world once the money is found.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214144907	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214144908	I recognise that good humanitarian aid is being given to Syria and the neighbouring regions today. It is also the worst crisis we have had since World War II, so there is nothing strange about that. I think I dare to promise that if it had been during my time as Foreign Minister, an even higher aid would have been given for the simple reason that the aid would have been generally higher. That is why I do not think it is an excuse in the situation in which fewer asylum seekers are then taken in that money is not used to help more refugees in the neighbourhood, even if a fine amount has been paid so far. For what has been the whole reason for the government to try to get fewer asylum seekers has been that money could then be spent in the neighbourhood. If we then get 6,000 asylum seekers instead of 10,000, there will not be one extra penny to the neighbourhoods! We simply do not understand the logic of this. I would just like to say that we can have a long discussion about what the lower number of asylums is due to, but the lower number of asylums is something that applies throughout Europe, and this is probably primarily the result of the agreement that the European Union has made with Turkey, regardless of what you might think of that agreement. I cannot deny that the austerity that the government has made has an effect, but I think I can deny that this is the main reason for the decline in the number of asylum seekers in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214145018	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214145019	I would like to thank you for that recognition. But it can be said that with this draft budget, close-up efforts will be historically high. We have never given as much money on the Danish side to the community effort as we are doing now. That is also with good reason, because we need the near-range effort. But I heard Mr. Martin Lidegaard say that it does not matter what kind of asylum policy, immigration policy we are pursuing in Denmark, because it is all sorts of other circumstances that determine whether there are many or few asylum seekers coming to Denmark? Or Mr. Martin Lidegaard, that the policy pursued in Denmark, after all, has an impact on the number of asylum seekers and thus on how much expenditure we want in Denmark for those areas? That is why, after all, I think it is equally good enough that Mr. Martin Lidegaard says: We do not want to be involved in tightening up and thus guaranteeing lower asylum rates and lower costs, but when that happens, we want to help spend the money around the world. It's just pretty.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214145114	That was a long speaking time, sir. Jacob Jensen got this time. It won't work any other time. Here you go, sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214145120	Sir. Jacob Jensen cannot prove that it is the government's immigration policy that has given fewer asylum seekers, and therefore I cannot reject it either. It may have had some significance. But I don't think so, sir. Jacob Jensen will agree with me that what has been of the utmost importance has been the agreements concluded by the European Union. Why do I say that? I am saying this because we see exactly the same drop in the number of asylum seekers in all the other European countries as we see in Denmark. This suggests that it is a European phenomenon. But it may well be that the Danish austerity has also had some form of significance. That is just not the main reason why the number of asylum seekers has fallen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214145155	Thank you. Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214145200	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for a very fine speech. First of all, I would like to thank you for the announcement that I understood in relation to abolishing the ceiling on cash benefits and the integration benefit, which I think is very positive. My question is about the charges on electric cars. I understand that negotiations have now begun in relation to looking at the charges on electric cars. The alternative was, of course, part of the whole process of negotiation, if I may say so, but then it did not agree with the model chosen at the end. We simply did not think it was good enough that we were concerned that it would have had a profound downward effect on electric car sales, and unfortunately it has done so too. Can the rapporteur reveal what the rapporteur's approach to the current negotiations on this is?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214145258	We've got a bit of a disturbance up in the press room. I'm gonna ask that there isn't. I like dogs, but not in the press room. Here you go, sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214145326	I believe that the alternative and radical left in the case of electric cars completely share the view. We would have liked to see the tax exemption for all electric cars continued until a critical mass had been reached before the introduction of taxes. The point was that if we hadn't entered into this agreement, 100 per cent of taxes would have been paid on electric cars per year. 1 January 2016. We did not want that, and that is why we reached that agreement so that only 20% was obtained. extra. Then we got some targets for how many electric cars were expected to be sold using the model that was then used, and we were promised that if we do not reach the target numbers, we will revise the electric car agreement so that we can achieve the expected targets. We are nowhere near reaching the targets, and therefore the clear position of the Radical Left is that the government will deliver a clear relaxation so that we can sell some more electric cars in Denmark. We would like to see the phasing-in of more taxes stopped now, that is to say it froze at the present level until we reach the targets we have shared; we would like to see more favourable conditions being created for company cars; we would like to see an exemption for electricity for transport, which would be 5, 6, 7, 8 years ahead, etc. etc. We put that on the table with the government today. To my surprise, the government had not obtained a mandate from itself, which is why we could not conclude the negotiations. But I have a clear expectation that this will happen in January, and then we will see whether it will be good enough for the Radical Left to see itself in the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214145454	Thank you. Mrs. Josephine Fock, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214145456	Thank you. In other words, we are going over the turn of the year now in relation to the uncertainty as to what happens in this area. That is how I understand the rapporteur, so it is not until January that it will fall into place.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214145510	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214145511	We will, as the government has not obtained a mandate. I must not hide the fact that sometimes you can feel a little lonely in those negotiations. I would have liked to have seen that the Alternative and SF and Enhedslisten had been sitting at that table too, so we had been more green forces that could fight the cause of electric cars. But we are doing what we can, and we have bitten on the edge of the table, and I can promise that we will do everything in our power to ensure that we have a good electric car market in Denmark. And if we can't get it, we won't put votes to it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214145544	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214145548	It was actually just a brief follow-up question in the context of the dialogue with the Left rapporteur, because it was asked whether the Radical Left would also take responsibility for the restrictions and for the lower number of asylum seekers who had come here. I did not hear the rapporteur say 'partout' was the merit of the Radical Left. But I would like to hear more about how Denmark could invest in order perhaps in the future to avoid these flows coming here. I know that the rapporteur is well aware of the issues in this area, and I think that we very much lack a different and more long-term foreign policy approach, because the austerity we are seeing right now is at least some that come to the rear. That is not all we have been able to foresee or do anything about, but can we have a word about how the Radical Left would like to look at the future of security policy, including as far as funding is concerned?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214145635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214145636	It is a big question to raise within 3 minutes, but there are at least two tracks that are perfectly obvious to pursue right now. One is the track that could be called the training trail in the neighbourhood. We hear from many of the refugee organisations that what is the main reason why many families choose to embark on the very dangerous journey to Europe is that their children cannot receive the most basic education. Approx. 50% children in the neighbourhood do not receive basic education today, and it is the largest so-called pull factor at all that is in the neighbourhoods. It costs 1.5 billion dollars to give all children in the neighbourhood a basic education. It is incredible that the world community is unable to deliver it. If we want to do something to limit the application for asylum to Europe, it will be a pretty obvious place to take action, while doing something good for those refugees who are living in terrible conditions. The second thing we must do is then try to achieve stability and lasting peace in the region. It requires preventive action, it requires stabilising efforts of a completely different caliber, and Denmark should probably consider, together with the rest of NATO and the coalition against ISIL, whether some of the money we are spending today on sending down F-16 aircraft was better spent in stabilising and preventative interventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214145752	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Martin Lidegaard. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214145806	Much has happened since the government presented its Finance Bill. It was a different government. There has been a lightning election, according to Anders Samuelsen, and the Liberal Alliance and Conservatives have come into government. Congratulations. Today we are going to discuss the Finance Act and the amendments tabled by the parties. In the SF we have a catalogue of pleasantries, a catalogue of cooperative, wise and green amendments, and we shall vote on them later today. With these proposals, SF shows that within the given financial framework we have, it can be done to make Denmark greener, more secure, more equal and more rich: greener through enhanced action in climate and environmental matters, where limited funds can make a big difference; more securely through a priority for our welfare areas, not least for our children and young people in our day care institutions, primary schools and the rest of the education system, but also through the elimination of the poverty benefits that, more than anything else, increase insecurity, also for those who risk ending up in cash aid. But we can also become richer by creating more production jobs through business policy and by training more better and through an ambitious green transition, which has just proved to create tens of thousands of jobs throughout the country. We can stay rich without greed. There is no need to give even more money to the best-off through top tax concessions, lower prices for the most expensive cars, and a freeze on the ground for the richest homeowners. On the other hand, there is every reason to limit social dumping, where dubious companies profit well from underpayment of labour, and to limit tax evasion and fraud, where the richest in particular are at the expense of others. When we criticise the government's anti-social financial law, we must, of course, table amendments ourselves. We have presented a comprehensive catalogue, and I would like to comment briefly on some of the proposals. First of all, we want both as financing and as a redistribution to cancel the tax reductions. Since the elections, the bourgeois majority has distributed large tax concessions which are not affordable. SF proposes that we cancel some of the tax gifts to those who have the most, namely cancels the freezing of the land debt in 2017, the relief of registration tax in 2017 and the discount on the estate tax, i.e. the inheritance tax, for the richest company heirs. Now to what we saw instead of wishing to prioritise. We want proper welfare in the municipalities. The then Left Government agreement on the municipal economy for 2017 means cuts of 0.5 billion. kr., while increasing the number of elderly people increases the municipal expenditure requirement by over 1 billion. kr. Of course, that doesn't add up. In SF we propose an additional agreement with the municipalities to increase the block grant by 1.5 billion. kr. This means that we can get more educators in crèches and kindergartens. This also means that we can raise the primary school by several hours with two adults and that we can improve the standard in the area of the elderly. And then there is still money left to introduce free psychological assistance for all young people. We also want good education. The government claims that it will ensure the future of Denmark, but it does the opposite through major re-priority contributions. The Folkeskole is hit through the municipal re-priority contribution and the other programmes through the requirement for an annual saving of 2%. The government's ban on education means another gook in the nuts of those who want to aim for the future and train better. There are also major savings, as we have mentioned earlier today, in the production schools. The day the government was presented in front of Amalienborg, I visited Aalborg Production School, which is facing millions of savings, and they say that this cannot continue to hang together and that in a few years' time they may have to close and shut down. This is the major consequence of tightening the conditions for production schools, which already have a rather tight economy, and also removing the income base for pupils. That is why we are proposing to remove the re-priority contribution to education, as was the case before the Left Government and the present government; to drop the restrictions on when people can take two courses; to set aside 100 million. kr. In addition, there is a need for more training for young people and adults, including the unemployed, to train and train to reduce the shortage of skilled workers which we know will increasingly harm industry, construction, etc. and Danish economy, if we do not get educated enough. Then, of course, the savings on the school allowance for the production school pupils must be removed, and questions have been asked to DF about this in this Chamber today. And I cannot understand why, when I even personally know DFs who have production schools close to them and who have family members who have gone there, in the way that I think there was someone from the Enhedslisten who said it, when it comes to some of the most important educational institutions we have that can help young people into the ordinary education system, they will risk having to shut down and turn off. Then we want to abolish poverty benefits. While the S-R-SF government managed to reduce the number of poor, the Left Government and now the new government have record-breakingly increased the number of poor by introducing a cash aid ceiling, a 225-hour rule and an integration benefit. Among other things: there is the prospect of thousands of more poor children, and the government itself recognises that the employment effect of the ceiling on cash benefits is very limited, under 700 people in jobs, and it is even a desk exercise. Because in the long term it is actually negative. For child poverty means that fewer people get a good education and a good job and that more people end up in, for example. early retirement. We cannot afford that, especially not human, but also economic, if that is what we are concerned with, and that is why the SF has made a proposal to eliminate poverty benefits, on which we will vote later. We also want a greener Denmark. The new government would like to appear greener than the Left Government, but unfortunately this is not reflected in the amendments to the draft budget that it has tabled. So to help it along the way and for the sake of the environment, climate, nature and health, SF has a number of proposals to make Denmark greener within a framework of almost 0.5 billion. kr. To this end, of course, we want a fight with the crazy fossil policy in the transport sector, which makes petrol cars cheaper and electric cars more expensive. In a couple of weeks, when the turn of the year comes and it will be 1 January, a petrol car will be 10,000 kroner. cheaper and an electric car in the same middle class will be DKK 20,000. More expensive. It is, of course, absurd when we know very well what needs to be done in order to ensure a green transition in transport as well. Finally, we want increased climate and development aid and, as part of the recovery of development and climate aid, we are allocating 500 million. kr. In the past, the Prime Minister has promised that climate aid will go beyond the UN's desire for countries to grant at least 0.7%. in development assistance. His governments, which are now in the majority, are not up to that promise. It will be possible with 500 million. kr. extra. In SF, we want Denmark as one of the richest and most peaceful countries in the world to assume its responsibilities when the world burns. This means, in concrete terms, in our proposal, 1.000 quota refugees and more money for help in the neighbourhood. Aleppo is being firebombed and children are being murdered in these hours and thus a call to the government: Send immediately the money which, due to computational techniques, is currently hidden, the money that development aid owes, among other things. because there are so much fewer asylum seekers in Denmark. We can send that money to Aleppo right away, if we agree. That's the very least we can do right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214150711	Thank you. There is one comment from Mr. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214150715	Thank you. I share Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's wish to see electricity cars spread in Denmark, and I also note that this is why I am speaking that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen asked some questions about it earlier in the debate to Mr Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Benny Engelbrecht, when it was the Social Democracy's turn to be on the platform as the first. And I have seen that SF is tabling an amendment to postpone the next steps in phasing in the registration fee agreed on electric cars. I will then just have to confirm that it is therefore a different proposal from what has been proposed in the past to extend a full tax exemption. It would cost a rather different amount than what the SF proposes. Now it is in this respect that the significant reductions for electric cars must be phased in, but within the framework there is. But just a few more years will have to pass before the next steps on the tax ladder are taken. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214150824	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214150825	Yeah, that's right. That is the concrete proposal, and it is from a recognition that there is no majority in Parliament to do something ambitious about the electric car sale right now. After all, both the Social Democrats and Radicals are in the circle, and it is reported that you are currently discussing these things, but I also received an answer from Mr. Benny Engelbrecht states that it is within the existing framework and it is clear that it costs money. I would like to remind the Social Democrats of some of the good proposals that have been made, which both the Social Democrats, but also the SF and other parties, put on the table when we had to find funding. There were a great many proposals, and it was actually fully funded if everything had been taken, and there were various political reasons why the government did not want to do so at that time. We still want to get rid of the taxes on electric cars, but when there is no parliamentary majority for that, we say: what can be the second best? The second best thing is that it is postponed for two years. Then it may be that in principle we have got a new government has found a financing; it may be that you can see from the development in the sale of electric cars that it is increasing a lot so you can see that it is also a good economic business; it may be that in the 2 years there have been some new technologies that also make it cheaper to buy electric cars. So it really is a situation that we think is absurd. We all agree that the green transition is simply not a luxury and that it is something we have to do and, in order to achieve our own climate objectives, we also have to do so in the field of passenger transport. So that's, what to say, the second best. We will continue to try to come up with proposals on how it can be made a little better together and, of course, we also have great confidence that the Social Democrats are doing what they can in those negotiations. Because I don't think anyone can be excited about...
ParlaMint-DK_20161214151030	Yes, please! Here you go, sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214151033	I think the President forgot to keep an eye on the speaking time. I shall try to keep to my speaking time here and just say that exactly what Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is saying about extending the electric cars within a responsible financial framework is of course of concern to us, and that is exactly what we are trying to do right now, and that is something we can do when we are involved in such an agreement. In other words, it is a matter of influencing the government and taking new initiatives and taking new steps both to get more electric cars and also like electric buses on the Danish roads. So I would like to thank you for confirming that this is in keeping with what is not a full tax exemption. Because then it was 650 million. kr. Next year and not 50 million. kr., and it's several billion kroner over the coming years, which SF hasn't shown how to find, but which is like playing on the same track now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214151120	Yes, please! Now I'm paying attention, and you shouldn't take advantage of my inattentiveness. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214151123	No, Mr President. The money it cost when we negotiated last year was found in the SF, and the Social Democracy also had some proposals. We had full funding, but there was then a political disagreement as to whether that funding should be used. But we said that we simply want to see, for example, a reduction in the number of jobs created. say, as they have done in Norway, that there must be a critical mass, for example. 50,000 cars, or whatever it is, on the roads first, and that you have to give some birth grants to get this thing going. That was then, and now I was trying to be a little kind to the rapporteur before, because I do not think I would like to stand and fight over here either, but when we were not in the agreement, it was because we thought it was so absurd and extremely poor, and we had our fears, our fears, that the electric car sales would come to a halt, and we think we have seen that too. But we still have confidence that it can be corrected.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214151216	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214151218	Thank you and thank you for a very fine speech from the rapporteur. SF is not, of course, part of the financial law agreement, but they are part of the PRS agreement, which is next door. And there has been a process that we all know: the government went out and said that the PSO agreement was illegal, and it has now turned out that it was not true, and so it managed to come through with an agreement. SF chose to join it, and that is not really what I am going to discuss here. But we chose not to join it, because we do not think it is a good agreement. But what I found a little problematic was that the agreement went out and, through family type calculations, gave the impression that a LO family and a pensioner couple would actually improve their finances. But when you clean the numbers from different, what we usually call hocuspocus effects, it's a strain on the economy of these groups. I know it's not something SF has decided it should be presented in this way, but will SF help us work to ensure that when you present these family type calculations, you separate the figures so that the Danes can see what the direct effect of such a change is?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214151331	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214151332	Only to the end: exactly when we discuss how things are calculated, what is of dynamic effects, I would say that I believe, Mr President. Pelle Dragsted and I are very much in agreement that this is of great importance for politics, for the political choices we are making, and that is also why both the SF and the Enhedslisten and also the Alternative, I think, are so concerned that we have looked at the calculation models that are underlying it because it can be extremely distorting whether you bring one or the other. So yes to it. Then I am glad to have the question of PSO, because we said in the SF again and again: let us now have that discussion with the Commission; it is not declared illegal; they have made representations; they have had their finger up; they want to have a discussion about this a bit like in Germany. In Germany it was enough to open up 5%. vis-à-vis foreign companies. That discussion should have been taken, but the government kept saying: No, we will not pour Danish money into foreign companies. If you had done that, if we had chosen that model, we would have been right away.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214151438	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214151439	What makes the situation all the more absurd is that we can now read that the European Union is going to change all the rules on support for renewable energy sources, so that the financial law required, that is to say, tax-claimed aid, must now be included in an open system, that is to say. should also be given to others. So the whole basis of the government, their whole argument as to why we should move it here from a system of solidarity in which business also had to pay, to the fact that it was the LO family and the pensioner couple who paid, has fallen away.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214151514	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214151515	In fact, I will go so far as to say in the platform that I think the presentation that has been of the whole of the PSO case has been deeply manipulative on the part of the government ■ deeply manipulative. We did not agree to the agreement because we thought it was illegal; we agreed at the last minute because we were hoping to make it a little greener and more solidarity and at least try to get companies to contribute just a little bit. That's why we went along, that's to see if we could make this deal a little bit better. We felt that we contributed to that, but I also hope that I have made it clear that the other had been far preferable.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214151554	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214151556	Thank you. In addition to the questions that have been raised, can the rapporteur not confirm that with the PSO we had, the Danes had an expensive electric bill? If you want to switch and we want to have a more electrified society, then what you actually do by removing the PSP is to make it easier for those who do not have access to district heating and other things, for example. to set up a heat pump. It is now becoming more attractive to choose another heat source, for example a heat pump, because the electricity bill itself is getting smaller. And so there will also be some who, of course, if you make an investment, will get a profitable return on the fact that an energy source such as electricity has now become cheaper because you don't have this PRS on the electricity bill. So does the rapporteur not agree that it is actually green if, for example, consumers choose to put in a heat pump?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214151647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214151648	I don't think it's that simple. I would like to turn a little to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, but I would also like to say that the fact that we have a bottom-up task with a green transition which virtually all the parties of the Danish Parliament agree that we need some funding. It can then be said that now the burden, that is, who should pay for it, lies almost exclusively on taxpayers, that is to say on individuals. And that, my answer to Mr. Pelle Dragsted went on, was actually that compared to Danish companies, which also get something out of the green transition and also in the long term get cheaper and cleaner green energy, we just don't think it's a fair model. So that was the objection in that way. Then it can be said that it is also a slightly more uncertain model we have than if it were fixed as a tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214151749	Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214151750	Thank you. It is not because it has to be such a PESO debate, but I would nevertheless say that it is quite interesting, also because we are both included in the agreement that it is not just a green transition. Well, PSO is also to have security of supply. There are also PRS for combined heat and power plants and other forms of energy and not just for wind turbines. That is for us in a modern society, when we push the button and when we turn the radiator up, to have such an expectation that it works. And, of course, the PSO has also helped to ensure security of supply there. That is why it is important that we can also finance that we have a modern society, and that is why I have to say from the Danish People's Party that we are very pleased with the arrangement we have made, where we have room for both the green transition, but indeed still can finance the security of supply that we must have. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214151836	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214151837	I think with all due respect that the rapporteur is moving the focus away from what we were discussing, namely: we had a PSO and if you were not crazy about that model, you should say so. Then you should not say: we are forced by the European Union to abolish it. That's the first thing. When you choose to do away with it, you have to try to find the best possible model, and that is where we in the SF just think that business should have contributed something more. But together we must try to make the best of the fact that the situation is as it is and to keep each other informed of what the money is for.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214151917	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen and the next rapporteur is Mr Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214151936	I would like to start by saying that it can be difficult to concentrate on a budget debate when something as terrible happens as is happening in Aleppo at the moment. It is very terrible and horrifying and, of course, more important than a debate on finance law. Nevertheless, it is, of course, my job as new Conservative Financial Rapporteur to explain why we support the Finance Act for 2017. And we are doing this quite simply and logically, because this financial law distributes public expenditure a little better than it is distributed today. It is no secret that we in the Conservative People's Party are very proud that once again we managed to freeze the root cause. We did it in 2016, and we're doing it again with this agreement for 2017. This saves homeowners an increase in the ground debt of approx. 620 million kr. per year, which means that the property owners will pay approx. 1,2-1,3 billion kr. less in debt in 2017, than if we had not frozen the ground debt. And when we joined the government as a party, we made sure that the root cause will also be frozen for the next four years until 2021. It saves property owners large billions of dollars; it gives them security; it means that people can stay in their homes. That is quite essential, at least for us. In addition, I would like to emphasise that we are very pleased that the Finance Act allocates money to our mentally damaged veterans of war. The veterans are generally strong young men with plenty of profits, but a few of them have been damaged by having witnessed violent war crimes or by having themselves been in extremely dangerous situations as sent out. We owe it to them to take better care of them. Conservatives are also extremely pleased that the Finance Act allocates more money to cultural heritage, with grants to a large number of museums, among others. The memorial grove where we remember our resistance people. As the grandson of two resistance fighters, I personally am very happy with that particular point of the Finance Act. We are also pleased that the registration tax on cars is being lowered and, above all, that more money is coming to our hard-pressed police, who in these years have exceptionally many tasks in dealing with refugees and with terrorist preparedness. Both when it comes to defense, police and preparedness, it's about security. That's core task number. 1 to ensure the safety and security of the Danes. It comes before all other tasks in a state. That is why we have now also got a new Conservative Minister of Justice, such as: immediately took the lead in making life miserable for the biker and gang environments in Denmark. Legal policy helps define what culture we have in Denmark, and at Conservatives we work for a Denmark where good behaviour is rewarded and crime is punished. The Finance Act allocates money to a new police group, which we call the politicians. These are people who receive a shorter education and can take care of them, among other things. transport and guarding tasks to relieve the pressure on the police. We think that's a good idea. We are tightening up the penalties for illegal possession of weapons, and admission to the police school will be increased by 600 students in the coming year, which is 120 more than was planned before the Finance Act. I would also like to mention that we are happy that with the Finance Act we are introducing stricter rules for stays in Denmark. Earlier in the debate, Enhedslisten's rapporteur said that there is no equality before the law when it becomes more difficult to obtain permanent residence permits in Denmark. And Enhedslisten is right about that. People from other countries do not have the same rights to live in Denmark as Danes do, and they should not have that either. For stays in Denmark is not something that foreigners are entitled to. That is something we can decide to give them if we want them to and if they behave properly. The new government will raise the defence budget and strengthen Denmark's environmental and climate action. This is an essential part of the reason why the Conservative Parliamentary Group gives the government a mandate to be a government. And especially with regard to climate action, we welcome the goal that half of Denmark's energy in the future should be renewable. We are also looking forward to a new energy agreement with more wind energy and to more research into the use of thorium as a very clean energy source. Economically, the aim of the government is that public expenditure should be a smaller part of the economy. In a country with the highest tax burden in the world it is necessary. There's always a hernia when we trim the cost. There are many who become angry with politicians who cut public spending. You shouldn't be, you should be happy about that. One should be glad that there are politicians who are sidetracking the money. When we save money in an area, it's not for us. It is because we recognise that every time the state spends money, we ask politicians Danes to work hard to pay that money in taxes. As a politician, we must be humble in spending our citizens' money. Every time we spend 1 billion. kr., and this happens many times in one year, that is equivalent to 4,000 years of work for citizens, and so we should not print citizens for 4,000 years of work without it being strictly necessary. Therefore, many politicians should reconsider their demands for very high public spending. In the coming years, reforms will continue to be needed, which is another word to make Denmark richer. We can't fool ourselves. Denmark is the world's best country because it is our country. It is also a rich country, but we are lagging behind many of our neighbouring countries. In the years to come it seems that the great challenge will be a shortage of labour, and that is why we want to continue the reforms that the Left hates, where we get more Danes away from public support and into the labour market. We are proud of the pre-retirement reform, the unemployment benefit reform, the ceiling on cash benefits, and we will continue along the same lines. We hope that the working parties in the Folketing will take it seriously to fight precisely for the working people instead of fighting for as high a transfer income as possible and thus for a system that maintains people at home instead of getting them into the labour market. I am aware that in some places it is fashionable to say that growth is not necessary, perhaps even to regard growth as an evil, and that is wrong. Overall, growth is positive. Growth means prosperity. Only growth can ensure that Denmark can continue to be among the world's richest countries. We didn't have the hospital service we have today if we hadn't had growth. We could not afford the care of the elderly, which we are happy about if we had not had growth. We would like to thank all the parties of the Folketing for their tireless work for a better Denmark. We do not always agree, but it is my experience that everyone wants the Danes the best. That is why I thank you for your cooperation. But more importantly, to thank the Danes, who will be working billions of hours in 2017, so that we politicians can spend 1,100 billion tax dollars of their money. That's too much. We do not want Conservatives to use that much at all, but of course we would still like to thank the Danes for their enormous efforts for the community. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214152727	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Erik Christensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214152734	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. After all, in their 2025 plan, the former Left Government put forward a proposal to increase the retirement age by 1⁄2 years, so that by 2025 it would be 671 1/2 years, and in this context Conservative Brian Mikkelsen said to Ritzau that the Conservatives think it is right to raise the pensionable age a tiny bit. The concept of a tiny bit depends on who you are, and otherwise it is such a little elastic in meter size, so I would like to hear the rapporteur today: what does Conservatives put in the concept of a tiny bit when we talk about retirement age?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214152815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214152818	I can only answer that by saying that the principle we are in favour of is this principle that we aim for approx. 14 years of retirement, which means that when life expectancy increases, retirement age also increases. We think this is very reasonable, because life expectancy has increased a great deal in recent decades. During our lifetime here, there have been some major improvements in the state of health and life expectancy, and it is reasonable that the retirement age should then also rise. I do not think it should be seen as an objective to retire as early as possible. I think that we should aim to set retirement age at a level that is linked to people's ability to work and health, and it must be accompanied by life expectancy. It is clear, then, that for some citizens the retirement age may fall too late, in relation to what they are capable of, but then we have to have differentiated retirement age, and one can of course consider that, but generally speaking, as long as we have a retirement age which is the same for everyone, it has to follow life expectancy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214152924	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214152926	Thank you. After all, it has become very modern at least for one party to talk about the party's opinion and the government's opinion otherwise, but the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur said today that the Liberal Alliance wants the retirement age to be raised by more than 1⁄2 years, so I would like to hear the rapporteur of the Conservatives: is it also the desire of the Conservatives that the retirement age should be raised by more than 1⁄2 years? And if so, what is the maximum? How far do you have to go before you can retire? I heard what was said about life expectancy, but do you Conservatives have such a maximum limit on how long we have to keep working?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153002	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153004	We do not have that because we cannot predict how much life expectancy is going to increase. In theory, if it reaches an average of 100 years, you will also have a very high retirement age. So, no, we do not have a maximum for that, and we will probably support the fact that the retirement age is going to increase more in the future. However, as I said, I think it is reasonable and reasonable that we should link it with increases in life expectancy and, of course, that there should be a long omen, so this is not something we change overnight, but so that people just as well know what they have to plan for. We also think that the principle of following life expectancy provides a very sensible development, because life expectancy does not jump so dramatically from one year to the next, but is an expression of an ongoing increase.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153049	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153051	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur talks a lot about this: the money we pull out of our citizens' pockets must be absolutely necessary to pull up, and this is a worthy point of view, which I believe we all share. But how does this really relate to the fact that the Conservatives have just taken part in an agreement in which at least 52 million are being pulled? kr. plus it loosen up the citizens' pockets to increase support for the parties in here? Is this in line with the concern of the Conservative People's Party, which is so strongly expressed here, even while shooting at colleagues, or should you be careful when living in a glass house?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153121	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153135	In other words, as far as I am and informed, I have not just been involved in the details of the debate • the party support has not increased for a number of years, and I understand that is why it has been chosen to raise it. I think, of course, that we should be reluctant to give too much in party support, but I also think that a certain amount of party support is necessary. I have to say that as a member of Parliament I have experienced quite overmatched when I have sat before ministries, officials and others who have a huge apparatus in their backs, and if I were to manage myself without assistance, I do not think it would be good for democracy; then I would simply not be able to see through the huge amount of legislative proposals and rules that we are being asked to adopt. That is why I think there is a certain logic in the fact that the parties have some strength to be able to have employees who can help us with their kind of things. That is why I am in favour of a certain amount of party support, but I do agree with Mr Tugendhat. Pelle Dragsted in that, too, we must be humble when it comes to the citizens' money.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153244	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153245	I think it is good to discuss this kind of thing, and I also think that there are a lot of people out there in nursing homes and in kindergartens who could use extra hands, but that is not something that the Conservative rapporteur believes should be given greater standards. In the same way, we can see that the Conservatives will spend much more money not just a little more money, but much more money on the defense. The 40 billion was not enough at all. kr., which was spent on fighter planes; much more money needs to be spent. Surely we agree that it is also money that needs to be left out of the citizens' pockets, and does this really not just show that it is not a question of whether we think that money should be spent, but what we think the money should be spent on?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153328	No, it is not an expression of that at all. The difference between the Conservative People's Party and the Enhedslisten is that, overall, we are in favour of spending far less money than Enhedslisten does. That is, of course, the difference, and that is also why I think I am allowed to say to Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted, that he should be more humble when he wants to raise taxes and increase public spending, because it is not his own money that he sits and gives away • it is hard-working Danes' money that one spends, and there one should have a desire to keep the total expenses down. Then it is clear that in a state budget of 1 100 billion. kr. are some small things that the Conservative People's Party prioritises above Enhedslisten. Among other things: We would like a few billion for the defence, but that is because it is core task no. One for a state.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153410	Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153413	Thank you, and thank you for sir. Rasmus Jarlov's speech, which started, I think, quite right and quite relevant and empathetic with Aleppo, which I think is going to be all our thoughts in here today. That is why I would also like to put the same question to Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, whom I have put to the other governing parties, whether, in view of the new terrible situation we have had, the government will reconsider the decision not to spend the money left over because we have had fewer asylum seekers for Denmark. Will you use that money to help the civilian victims in Aleppo instead of passing them on to 2017? In any case, we will make suggestions to do so. We may also believe that the Conservatives, with their general support for Danish development aid and because of the situation in Aleppo, could be involved. I just want to know if you could imagine.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153516	I have a great deal of sympathy for the desire to make greater efforts in the neighbourhood. As we are also aware, the Conservative People's Party has a desire to maintain quite significant development aid, which we also want to target, among other things. humanitarian disasters of the kind currently taking place in Syria. After all, the Conservative People's Party does not have the opportunity to vote against elements of the Finance Act when we have reached an agreement with three other parties on the Finance Act. That is why it goes without saying that we cannot vote in favour of amendments to the Finance Act. In addition to the Finance Act, however, we would like to accept constructively any proposal from the Radical Left on this kind of action.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153601	Here you go, sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153603	I am glad to hear that answer, because what is at issue is that we are currently dealing with an act in the Committee on Finance, and we are a little surprised that although the number of asylum seekers is going to be about 4 000 lower this year than was estimated just a few months ago, there is no more money allocated to development aid. That's what we're wondering. It does not really have to cost extra money, if I may say so; it is only a question of doing what the government has previously guaranteed, namely that, by saving money, by bringing fewer asylum seekers to the country, they are spending money to help in the vicinity, and, of course, right now, the civilians in Aleppo.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153646	As I said, we will welcome and constructively accept proposals for greater action in the neighbourhood. I would just like to point out that there may be a dilemma. I don't know if the right thing can be directed at Mr. Knox. Martin Lidegaard, but it is sometimes the case that we hear a lot from the left of Parliament that it is wrong that we have linked development aid and expenditure on asylum seekers. But if we are not to do it one way, it must also apply to the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153718	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153723	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. The rapporteur mentioned in his speech that the rapporteur is very pleased with the 50%. in relation to achieving the renewable green energy target, which has been included in the Finance Act as the 2030 target. But if you produce the energy consumption we have today, then we reach 42 per cent. in 2020, and if this projection is then extended to 2030, you will actually reach 60-65 per cent at the same rate of increase that has been introduced now. So the question is, is the target of 50%? is ambitious enough by 2030, or whether it really means that you want to write down in relation to renewable energy before. So I'd like to hear about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153814	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153815	I have to admit that I am not so much an expert in the projections that Mrs Josephine Fock mentions here that I can enter into a detailed discussion on this. But I can at least say that it is, after all, more ambitious than some of the objectives we have had before. And it can also be said that this certainly prevents some from stopping development. So in this way it must be seen as something positive for climate action that it has been written into the government base. It keeps us on track. In view of whether this could be even more ambitious, I would say that we would like to see it. In relation to how difficult or how expensive it would be, I am not an expert enough to think I can take that debate on a proper basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153855	Thank you. Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153856	Well, it's taken note of. We'll work on that. And we're really happy that the Conservatives have helped to get this ambition into it. We're just worried that it really does lower the level. Something else I would like to ask about, and I think that is also thanks to the Conservatives, so we are glad that it has been written in that you want to work with national nature objectives, targeted efforts. Can the rapporteur elaborate on this in relation to how we are going to stop the loss of biodiversity that we are seeing today in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153930	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153931	After all, it is about getting some more land with untouched nature, where there is a greater diversity of plants and thus also of wildlife. And there we have come a bit, but it is of course important that we continue in that path, and we will also, as conservatives, support that we have more untouched natural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214153958	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154003	Thank you. Saxo Bank's chief economist is quoted today in Politiken as saying that Karl Marx was right. At least I didn't see that coming. Of course, I read on interested to find out what the point could be. His point is that few people get rich when we don't get growth. He says that too low wages means a poor middle class who cannot afford to buy the things they produce themselves. I think that a well-functioning public sector is a prerequisite for growth. It creates greater equality when, after all, we all have the right to welfare benefits. That is why it can also be a cause for concern when the rapporteur says that we must have lower growth in the public sector. Who is it that, with the rapporteur's desire for lower growth, should stop using the welfare areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154116	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154118	Where savings are most likely to be made is on transfer incomes. It is not my party's view that public services should be spared, in other words, our police and defence, which I have already mentioned, our roads, our health services, our education programmes. We do not see them as areas where there is a huge potential for savings. But we would really like to see fewer Danes on transfer income and thus receive a check every month for not working. So there are many billions to be recovered. We believe that the money can be found there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154159	Here you go, Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154202	In fact, I share that view, and I believe that the unemployed do too. With a tendency for more and more people to leave home and home and more and more people to become homeless, is it realistic to think that this is the right way to help people in work, or can you imagine that it is really just increasing the cost to the public sector in the long run?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154221	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154224	It is not my view that people end up homeless for purely economic reasons because of the levels of benefits in Denmark. We have had a major debate on the ceiling on cash benefits, and I think there have been some allegations that are not really connected, that people are being sent on the street, for example, with the new ceiling on cash benefits, where, for example, a single parent with two children gets DKK 17,600. paid after tax in total benefits. That's enough for you to find a place to live somewhere. It is clear that some people have to move because they have lived in some homes that have been more expensive than the level of cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154303	Thank you. Then it's mr. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154307	Thank you. With the Conservative rapporteur, we have talked a little about withdrawal and when to retire, and there has been debate in the past with other parties from the government, the Liberal Alliance and the Left on the issue of early retirement. So what is actually the Conservative People's Party's position on the post-retirement wage after the withdrawal reform that was made, the last one being responsible? I can tell you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance says that it is the policy of the Liberal Alliance to abolish the post-retirement wage, it will increase employment, and we think that should be done by the three parties the government should put forward a policy, and here we are one of the parties. Quote out. It's from sir. Joachim B. Olsen for a debate in Orientation, which he has therefore repeated today. But what does the Conservative People's Party really think as a new government party on the issue of post-retirement pay? I think there are a lot of people who are on early retirement and who are planning on what needs to be told.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154407	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154408	We have the same attitude as the Liberal Alliance. We would like to see early retirement abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154413	Sir. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154419	At sir's. Mr. Brian Mikkelsen's Facebook page from the day the withdrawal reform agreement was made, which, after all, reduced the early retirement pay, says Mr. Brian Mikkelsen. Brian Mikkelsen on the agreement that for me it is undoubtedly one of the most important and best political agreements that I have ever made. That's when you narrowed the payroll. Well, I have to understand this is how someone who plans to go on early retirement is actually per. Today cannot count on the agreement, which was said to be one of the best ever, to remain in force?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154454	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154457	No, I think that Mr. Knox... Magnus Heunicke knows how things work. It does, of course, work in this way that the Conservative People's Party stands by its political agreements, but after all it does not mean that we have great power and we are skilled negotiators that we get everything through when we make agreements, even if we say it is the best deal ever. There would probably have been some things that, if we had had 90 seats, would have been different. There will probably be a complete abolition of the post-retirement wage. So it is our policy that it should go away, but of course we stand by the agreements and we could not dream of abolishing a pre-retirement wage without a very long notice so that people know what they have to plan for.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154531	Then it's mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154535	Thank you. This is just a follow-up, both to the last reply to Mr. Magnus Heunicke, but also to the answer given by the rapporteur earlier on to Mr. Heunicke. Erik Christensen. It is just to fully understand what it really is that one of the three governing parties thinks about the retirement age. As the rapporteur said earlier, the aim is, in this way, that retirement age should follow life expectancy. Peace be with it, but we also know very well that we have a society where life expectancy is not the same for the different groups in the labour market. The rapporteur has just confirmed that Conservatives have as their objective the eventual abolition of post-retirement pay. This means that the people who have entered the labour market at the earliest and have the shortest education and the lowest wages can look forward to having to retire very, very late and have a relatively short retirement. Therefore, it might be relevant to know what the government and the Conservatives are really up to. Is it that the retirement age should increase by 1⁄2 years as provided for in the overall plan, or is it, as can be seen from the government base, that it should increase by up to 11⁄2 years or perhaps more?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154641	I'm not speaking on behalf of the government. I am speaking on behalf of the Conservative Parliamentary Group and, in fact, none of the members of the Conservative Parliamentary Group are sitting in the government. That is why we must be able to distinguish between the two sets of positions, namely the positions of the government, which reflect a compromise and what the Conservative People's Party believes. We are not in favour of early retirement because it is really a reduction in retirement age at a time when we need more people on the labour market. We do not think that people should necessarily withdraw from the labour market at the beginning of the 1960s. We would like as many people as possible to continue. I fully understand that there are some people who have earned an early retirement, and if they are worn out, they are going on early retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154731	Here you go, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154732	Thank you. We do agree that the Conservative People's Party is part of this Triple Government and must therefore also be at the goal of the policy that the government intends to pursue and must also be allowed to elaborate on what policy the government intends to pursue, as long as one is part of the government. But I didn't really get an answer to my question. We have now asked a lot of people a lot of questions and we cannot really learn whether the government intends to raise the retirement age by 1⁄2 years, or whether what we can calculate is 11⁄2 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154805	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154807	Well, I think we need to refresh this in general in the Folketing. I hear a lot of people are having a hard time doing this with the distribution of power. I'm not in government. Well, the government is made up of ministers, and they're sitting down here in this box. In a few moments, the Minister of Finance will be on the floor and he will be able to explain the government's policy. I'm not capable of that. I can guess what the government's policy is, but I'm not speaking on behalf of the government. And I think people generally have to learn that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154837	Thank you. Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen, Social Democrat, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154842	It's a little interesting. I understand, sir. Rasmus Jarlov is a member of parliament and not a member of the government. But he is, after all, a member of a government-supporting party, so that it is not possible to explain the government's policy, however, a little special. I shall then confine myself to asking about the Conservative position, then we know that we may be able to get answers, but after all, on the basis of the government base and some of the statements made by the government colleagues. It is about the balance between the public and private sectors, and I would very much like to hear the vision and dreams of the Conservatives about what is going to be competitive. I am very concerned about the good children's life and that our children have a safe everyday life where they are challenged educationalally when the rest of us go to work • I think it's really good for a lot of parts of our society • and then I understand that the government colleagues and the rapporteur colleague in the Liberal Alliance think we should put out competition until the blood sprays. Does the rapporteur share that ambition, and if so, in what direction, including for our children?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214154955	I do not think there is any blood to spray anywhere unless it is done under controlled conditions in an operating room in a hospital. And I do not think it is the position of the Liberal Alliance to do so either. However, we are in favour of things being exposed to competition, and that does not necessarily mean that it should go to private hands, but it may mean that we are looking into whether there are some private individuals who can do things better. There is most obvious a great potential in things like watchkeeping and cleaning and the kind of services that are quite easy to define, and we wanted to get on with that. I cannot define exactly how many things can be put out of business. I would just like to say that one must distinguish between being a member of the government and being a member of the parliament. I have noticed that when the Social Democratic Party has been in government, there were many Social Democratic MPs who used the phrase we used in the government, and it has to be explained that people sitting in the Folketing are not sitting in the government unless they are also ministers. In fact, I think it is important to understand that there is a difference between Parliament's task and that of the government and that it is also understood that members of parliament, who are not ministers, do not speak on behalf of the government. I cannot do that because I have not been appointed by the other parties involved in intergovernmental cooperation to have that role.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214155113	Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214155115	Thanks for the lesson. And, by the way, I would just like to make a comment about our children. I believe that there should be security about this kind of offer, and besides, I do not think it should be a business. However, I would like to hear the rapporteur's position on this. Should you as a business be able to make money from having our children in care and providing educational offers in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214155137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214155138	I don't think there's anything wrong with that. As long as the result is that children have better kindergartens, there is no problem with the fact that some private people also make it a way of life. In other words, there are also employees today who live by caring for children, and that does not mean that they are doing badly, and I think that would be the case if it were private people who were responsible for it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214155159	Sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214155202	After all, the Finance Act here for 2017 managed to get through with better care and food for the elderly, and that was good. That is also one of the reasons why growth is 0.7%. in the public sector in 2017. What I want to ask you is what Mr. Rasmus Jarlov replied to Enhedslisten, who asked about the 52 million. kr., which will then be given to the political parties. It is not part of what the Danish People's Party has agreed to. We think it is money that can certainly be better spent on, for example. the elderly. Can the Conservative rapporteur not explain how it can be that, after the budget law has been drawn up, the Conservatives suddenly make such an agreement that the political parties should be gilded with a further 52 million? kr. I simply lack an objective explanation for this, and I think there are many people out there wondering why the political parties are giving themselves so much more money.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214155313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214155313-2	The objective reason, as I understand it, is that party subsidies have not been regulated for a long time, and that is why inflation has simply fallen behind. The fact that there is any party support of a certain size is linked, as I said before, to the fact that it is important that the parties can match the ministries, organisations and others who are trying to overdrag us with legislative proposals and other proposals for things that we have to adopt. The proper functioning of democracy is therefore extremely important. It is incredibly important that we can make the right decisions. I believe that we will make better decisions if we also have some people to help us analyse the many legislative proposals that are being put on our table, because that can be a very big task. I can tell you that I have 15 rapporteurs at the moment, and it may be difficult to get down to the details myself. That is why I am very pleased that we can afford to hire people to help with that task.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214155411	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214155413	Well, I should not rule out the possibility that in some parties there may be problems in achieving everything, but on the other hand I have to say that it is the Members of Parliament who should be responsible for the political work. These aren't employees we need to make politics. That is really what is likely to happen if the political parties are strengthened in this way, as is the case. I would like to know more about the work being done to tell the ministries that some of the time they spend on things today must be spent in the Folketing, so that we have some better time to look at things. However, I must also say that I believe that the elderly and also other invaded groups in our society with a bad taste in their mouths, when the parties can afford to give so much money to themselves, while at the same time we see elderly people who find it difficult to have the care and care that they are entitled to after a long life in the service of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214155505	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214155506	In other words, whether resources are allocated to direct assistance by government officials, or whether we get it as party support, so that we can hire someone to help us, will be the same in the overall resource ratio of public expenditure. So maybe I don't see the big difference between that. I think it is quite fair to be critical of party support.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214155529	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214155534	As part of the Finance Act, the PRS is now being transferred to the Finance Act. I find it deeply regrettable that a system which required a minor adjustment is now faced with being dismantled in such a way that ordinary employees will pay 3 billion. kr. extra, and we end up with perhaps Denmark's biggest business tax relief, which the Conservatives certainly welcome. Conservatives have also helped to ensure that the green cheque is abolished for the groups that have the very least. SU recipients, people on cash benefits are actually being allowed to pay for the sustainable conversion. I find it deeply regrettable that it has come to that, especially when the PSO system should only have been adjusted. The PSO agreement provides for a levy on biomass. This is something that must be actively addressed. At the same time, we can see that we have less money for conversion. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether that tax on biomass can go to increase the ambitions of the green conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214155644	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214155645	We see it in this way that we think the abolition of the PRS tax is beneficial to consumers and Danes, because it brings a little lower energy prices. That is why we do not think we have done anything bad by abolishing that tax. I think I should have the last part of the question again. I don't know if the questioner can get an extra round. I didn't understand the last part. Can the rapporteur repeat that part?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214155720	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214155723	I got an extra round. That was amazing. The PRS agreement says that the parties to the agreement agree to look at the support and levy structure in relation to biomass. I would like to know whether this means that the rapporteur sees some opportunities for us to increase the green conversion when there is a tax on biomass which affords something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214155754	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214155757	That's how I've seen it. So there is some funding for that. Well, we'll have to talk about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214155815	We've just been sitting here trying to figure out if we're gonna have a break for dinner. It is a little early to take a position on what we are returning to. We hope we can drive through, but it depends entirely on whether there is a lot of questioning, and if there is, Members of the House will certainly be very welcome to end the debate. But we'll just get back to it. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214155841	Thank you. I'll be brief. Thank you for your speech, in which the rapporteur was actually proud of the poverty reforms that have been carried out here, among other things. the ceiling on cash benefits. The rapporteur said that he was proud to have been involved in this. So I would like to hear: what is the rapporteur's explanation for the sick, vulnerable, unemployed Danes who follow here, that they are taking money away from them and making their opportunities worse at a time when things are going well in Denmark, where we have good welfare, where there is falling unemployment, where there is low unemployment?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214155919	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214155921	I mean, the ceiling on cash benefits doesn't hit the sick. So that's a pretty important part of the explanation. It hits people who are workable. And we think that even after we have introduced a ceiling on cash aid, we are providing people with sufficient benefits to live a reasonable life. It is not a life of luxury, and it is clear that you will live in a relatively small home. You may also move if you have been used to living in a larger dwelling at a time when you have been in employment and had a higher income. But, for example, DKK 17,600. to a single parent with two children in total benefits after tax each month we think we are enough to make it. That is why we think this is a good reform, because the aim of the reform is, of course, that there should be a benefit from taking a job. And there we have had a problem with the fact that the difference between cash benefits and low-paid jobs has been too small. It is unfair to those who work hard in a low-paid job that they do not get a profit from it compared to being on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214160028	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214160030	Now, however, the rapporteur says that the recipients of cash benefits are not sick. In other words, it turns out that three-quarters of the recipients of cash benefits are what is called activity preparation. And that is precisely because they are unable to take a job. It is because they have social challenges or physical or mental illnesses. So I do not understand in any way how the rapporteur can stand and say that these people are not sick. Firstly, I would like to hear the rapporteur repeat that these people are not sick. Secondly, how does the rapporteur expect to get sick people into work when there is barely a job by putting them in help when they cannot even take a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214160119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214160120	In other words, if you think there are a lot of sick people who are on cash benefits, you have to get to the municipalities, because that is not the intention. I know that there may of course be some who are misclassified, but then the criticism must be directed at the municipalities. I do not think we can set up a cash assistance system on the assumption that there are a whole lot of people who are placed there wrong. Then you have to correct the way they are placed. Then I am not always sure that you can rely on the figures that come out, on the proportion of the recipients of cash benefits who are ill. Because there are at least some case officers sitting in the municipalities and taking a stand on the cases that disagree with that assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214160159	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214160202	Thank you. The government base states: "The State shall not own companies which are in direct competition with privately owned companies. Therefore, the government's objective is that the State should, as a starting point, dispose of such companies. I am now guessing that Conservatives support this, despite the fact that the rapporteur is not a member of the government. However, in the Social Democratic Party we think it is actually quite far-reaching, and that is why I would like to ask the rapporteur what state companies Conservatives want to sell.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214160238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214160240	Well, it could, for example. Be TV 2, which we've been talking about for many years. What else exists by state companies, I do not have a full overview of. We have a lot of shares in such things as Copenhagen Airport, I know, and there are probably other state companies, which I cannot immediately think of. However, we generally believe that the state should stick to what it is good at, and that is not doing business. It's better for private people. And that is why we are opposed to the fact that the state is sitting on very large companies which could just as well be run by private companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214160315	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214160317	Okay, but I think that's a little interesting. TV 2 wants to sell, and it is also in the government base. But here the rapporteur is opening the door to the fact that it is all state companies that we could dispose of. The rapporteur himself mentions Copenhagen Airport. It could also be SAS or DSB. Does the rapporteur think that we should sell Copenhagen Airport? We would like to have a reply to yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214160347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214160348	I will not comment on this until a closer analysis of the pros and cons of such a sale has been made. But now Mrs Lea Wermelin asked which state companies could come into play, and I think it is certainly worth considering. But, of course, it needs to be analysed very carefully before a final decision is made.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214160408	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214160411	Thank you. It is about development aid, and I understand that there is a difference between whether you are conservative in the Folketing in government or whether you are just a support party. So I'm gonna have to try my way out. After all, we had excellent cooperation to save some of the development aid last year when the very greedy Leftmen came into government. It's a little dampened in this government base, I think. What is the reason for this? Why is it not important to still have a higher figure than 0.7 per cent. in development aid? The problems have not diminished since last year.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214160450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214160451	I mean, I am in favour of being honest, and I could stand by and stick some record and always be the defender of every detail of government policy, but we all know that government policy consists of compromises and there has been no dramatic change in three weeks in the Conservatives' attitude to foreign aid. After all, we have many things that we are fighting for and we cannot get everything through, but I would say that what is in the government base in relation to development aid is, after all, very, very small adjustments, and that is why we are living with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214160528	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214160530	I think it's cut at least 2.5 billion. kr. Since we've had elections. I only saw it in the Finance Act when I looked there, and I was sad to see the result that Conservatives had achieved there. Unfortunately, I have not been invited to negotiations myself. Then I saw here on 1 December that 95 million will now be ironed out. kr. in contributions to Niger and Mali because it had been found that 95 million. kr. Of the expenditure on refugees that we have, the DAC could still be obtained, which means that the third world will suffer, that they will not be formally moved in this way, because it is the same cost, but this is just an expenditure that can be counted as development aid, and so it is retreating to Niger and Mali by 95 million. kr. I was somewhat shocked about that. I thought the Finance Act was something you could count on, but that means that until the end everything must be covered in the aid for developing countries. What is the rapporteur's position on this kind of policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214160632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214160633	In general, I think it is very reasonable to include expenditure on refugees in development aid, because things are linked. It is a question of how many of the funds for our prosperity in Denmark we can devote to helping developing countries. And if the Danish Parliament chooses to spend a large proportion on refugees, then everything else is equally less left to be able to help directly in the neighbourhoods. I know that at Enhedslisten you have infinite money, so that you can both spend a lot of money on refugees and have an even higher level of foreign aid and give money for everything else, but that is not how we have to give priority to that. In fact, I think it is very healthy for the Danish Parliament to have the realization that if we spend a lot of money on refugees in Denmark, there is less to be done to help in the outlying areas, and thus to understand that we should perhaps give priority to helping the neighbourhoods than trying to alleviate all the misery of the world by moving people to Denmark and putting them on cash aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214160734	The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214160736	Thank you very much. I think it is quite incredible to hear the rapporteur stand and say from the platform that no sick person is affected by the ceiling on cash benefits. After all, the rapporteur withdrew a little in his reply, because if there were any sick people, it was the fault of the municipalities. But it is not a matter of "if" because we have the words of the municipalities, we have the words of the Minister for Employment that 32,000 are affected by the ceiling on cash benefits, and 69 per cent, says the Minister, are ready for activity, and one of the definitions of being ready for activity is that one is so ill that one is unable to take an ordinary job. It's as simple as that. There are plenty of sick people on cash benefits. The rapporteur will then blame the municipalities. No, the blame and responsibility must then be placed on those legislators who deliberately and with open eyes make legislation that affects sick people who are unable to work, on the pretext that it should be worthwhile to work. Would the rapporteur not agree with me that it is simply not coherent? Well, if you only have one agenda and that is to save money so that the rich in this country can get some more money and scare the lives of the workers so that they are afraid to become unemployed and end up on cash aid, then it makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214160856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214160857	I agree so far that I think it is certain that there are some people who are misclassified around the municipalities. It can be said that only the number of recipients of cash benefits, which, as far as I remember, is 150,000, makes it clear that there will be some of them who are probably sitting on the wrong shelf. But I still want to hold on to the fact that when it is up to the municipalities to search people and put them on the right services, that is also where the responsibility lies. I understand that this is a difficult task and I agree that mistakes can be made, but I have not heard Mr. Finn Sørensen comes up with a golden solution to how to do it better, but if Mr. Finn Sørensen has it, he can bring it. But it should not just be that we set up the benefits for everyone, both healthy and ill, because we do not buy that solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214160942	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214160943	Now we're not talking in this context about raising benefits. The Enhedslisten has plenty of good suggestions on how to do better in relation to early retirement and everything else, but in relation to this particular case, Enhedslisten proposed that everyone who was ready for activity should be exempted from the cash benefits ceiling. It was justified by the fact that these people do not have a Chineseman's chance to defend themselves in the way the rapporteur says they must defend themselves, in other words by going out to work. The rapporteur's party and the other bourgeois parties voted against this, which is why legislation has been drawn up with open eyes which affects seriously and long-term sick people in this country. Can we not just have confirmation that we know that we have done so and that it is the price of getting through with what is called the policy of necessity?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214161032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214161033	That is wrong, because there are degrees of how workable you are, and that is what you are so searched for in the municipalities and put into different categories. Then, of course, we can discuss whether it is only those who will probably be able to get a job tomorrow, who will be affected by the ceiling on cash benefits, or whether it is also people who are a little further away from the labour market. However, it is not true that people who are long-term ill should be on cash benefits. Mr. Finn Sørensen, too, very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214161101	Thank you, and the last one asks about the Conservative People's Party becoming Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214161107	Thank you. I could understand from the rapporteur, in relation to an earlier answer about aid in the neighbourhood, that it would have liked to have made a little more of it. Can the rapporteur not confirm that, with this financial law, we have significantly increased aid in the neighbourhood? We have tightened the policy on foreigners, and at the same time we have also said that when we do this we must also increase aid in the neighbourhood. I am just reading from the agreement that the Conservatives are also part of: the parties to the agreement agree that the 1 billion increase. kr. Annually, it goes uncut to the neighbourhood effort, particularly in Syria and neighbouring countries. So we have paid particular attention to this in the context of the 2017 Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214161146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214161149	That is quite correct, and it can be said that where there is then cut down, I do not know whether we should call it the outermost regions with the aid of developing countries, which do not go directly to war-torn regions. So that is a perfectly correct interpretation, and we think that is also the right priority. We may have a desire for a slightly higher level of foreign aid than the Danish People's Party has, but we agree on the priority, and of course we stand by our agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214161216	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214161218	That's right. I would like to say that the Danish People's Party is very, very pleased that we have turned up the area assistance, because it is precisely that people, even if they are fleeing to a neighbouring country, can get residence and protection closer to the area from which they are fleeing, in conditions of order, and that is what we hope this money can help to do, so that the population does not have to be exploited by smugglers and others on this journey they are pursuing. However, the rapporteur cannot also confirm this and it is not, in fact, because we think it is quite fantastic that more money is actually available. There's actually 475 million. kr. more available when we talk about the work on humanitarian aid, also in the Finance Act for 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214161257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214161259	I can't see that figure right in my head. I often get the question of whether one can confirm a certain figure, and there I might just need to look it up, but I suppose it is true, of course, if Mr. René Christensen has that number in front of him. After all, there are different categories of development aid, and we would have liked to see it overall slightly higher than it is, but I think we agree with the Danish People's Party on the way in which priority is given and, above all, that the so-called neighbourhoods, the war zones, are given very high priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214161330	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214161334	Today, the Folketing has visited a delegation of members from Greenland from Inatsisartut. I would like to welcome you and hope that you will have a fruitful meeting in the Folketing. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214161348	Then we move on in the rapporteur's line. It is now exactly Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214161358	Thank you very much. This year's budget negotiations for Greenland's members of parliament have been historic, and we have been pleased to be involved from the outset with an invitation to the government's set-up meetings. In this way, we have also helped to ensure that Greenland has a number of concrete results. Inuit Ataqatigiit chose last year to be Greenland's free voice and, above all, to defend the interests of our voters and Greenland, because Greenlandic and Danish politics cannot be compared. The two countries are too different for that. The primary interests that we take care of as Greenlandic MPs are to secure the 32 areas that Denmark continues to occupy on behalf of Greenland, and to ensure that they are properly managed and ensure a worthy standard. Since we represent the Greenlandic people here in Tinget, we also have a great deal of knowledge, and we know what is moving in Greenlandic society, and therefore we should also be involved in influencing the final decisions that are about Greenland. It should be in everyone's interest. During the Finance Law negotiations Denmark had a new and expanded government and thus a number of new ministers. Inuit Ataqatigiit wants continued good cooperation with the new government for the benefit of both Greenland and Denmark.• A constructive and fruitful dialogue and a proper tone between our two countries is the starting point for Inuit Ataqatigiit. It is important for me to emphasise here today, because I believe that Greenland is the most advanced and achieves the most by building bridges with our partners, including Denmark, rather than burning bridges. In the current government base, a number of new Greenlandic areas have been added for which the government will work. Thus there remains a principle that the government will ensure a standard on the 32 Danish matters in Greenland, which corresponds to Danish standards. This is a very good starting point that Inuit Ataqatigiit will keep the government up to in the coming years until the elections in 2019. In particular, an increase in the justice area in Greenland is required, just as the work to strengthen the defence tasks in Greenland and the Arctic has only just begun. Here we want to contribute actively and sit in the forthcoming conciliation negotiations. One of the areas that the government undertakes to clarify in the government base is the responsibility for environmental clean-up at former military facilities around Greenland. One of them is Camp Century, where large amounts of chemical and toxic waste have accumulated during several years of work in a city under the ice sheet, including estimated 200,000 litres of waste oil that has never been removed. Another area is the Green Valley in South Greenland, where the defence is now once again planning its presence. Here it is important to ensure a closer dialogue with the Greenlandic authorities on the restoration of the Grøndel valley. In total, there are over 200 places in Greenland where possible areas of military pollution have been recorded. In the final draft budget, Inuit Ataqatigiit has secured the following concrete results: funding for the work of the ICC for the Greenlandic people and for indigenous peoples internationally and in the United Nations and the Arctic Council; enhanced cooperation between Greenland and Denmark on Arctic research. We have brought to the attention of the government that it is crucial that the police in Greenland have updated their radio communications equipment so that police officers do not have to use their own phones to contact colleagues. We need to ensure that the people who take care of us have up-to-date and appropriate equipment to be able to carry out their work satisfactorily for the rest of society. In view of the positive announcements that have been made by the government about radio equipment to the police in Greenland, we expect that the means for this will be found in the implementation of the current police settlement, and we will keep the government up to that in the future. Inuit Ataqatigiit did not sit at the negotiating table when there were bets pool negotiations, but we would like to thank the various parties who listened to us and their social rapporteurs, with whom we had preparatory meetings, with whom we called. Close cooperation with the Minister for Social Affairs and the various social rapporteurs in the Danish Parliament helped to ensure that efforts towards a particular group of the most vulnerable in Danish society, including a minority of Greenlanders living in Denmark, were also part of that pool. 36.4 million kr. A total of EUR 10 million was allocated to a joint effort for socially vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark. kr. to strengthen the exchange of knowledge within the Kingdom. It is a pity that the wage-pool negotiations and the rate-pool funds are only being successfully implemented into the new year and not as usual here in January. For certain groups of vulnerable Greenlanders, postponing the use of funds will also help delay the implementation of aid measures. I was not long ago in Greenland to discuss one of the points that Inuit Ataqatigiit has been most concerned about in the autumn. I met with our Minister for Education, Doris Jakobsen, to discuss the upcoming U.S. deteriorations planned in the government's 2025 plan. As we all know, the government has postponed the discussion on the 2025 plan and thereby also the discussions on the SU degradation, which will have to be re-examined in spring 2017. The attitude of Inuit Ataqatigiit is very clear. We should not save by taking money from students, and SU degradation will have enormous consequences for apostasy and retention of students in education. Earlier this year I had a round table with representatives of the Greenlandic students' association, VALAK, and the educational counsellors in the Greenlandic houses here in Denmark. Everyone reports that the progress reform has pushed students, including Greenlandic students, as well as the SU degradation will naturally have negative consequences for the number of Greenlandic students in Denmark. All initiatives that can help to ensure that more, including Greenlandic students, complete an education are welcomed, and I think it is important to emphasise that Greenland and Denmark should cooperate to ensure some study preparation measures and ensure that the SU degradation and the progress reform do not affect how many people carry out their education. In conclusion, I would like to stress the need for fruitful Danish-Greenlandic and, above all, international cooperation when it comes to investment and better business development in Greenland and the Arctic. If we are to be able to afford to maintain a strong welfare society with good schools and a health sector that is at the top, more money is needed in Greenland's national fund. The reality today is that Greenland is facing a wide range of economic challenges and, overall, we need to improve public finances by up to 900 million. kr. each year up to 2040 to ensure a balance between expenditure and revenue. Of course, we have a responsibility in Greenland. However, I also think it is important to emphasise that we would like to see solutions being found to ensure greater focus on business development and a link between foreign policy and trade policy work. The 2015 Greenlandic-Danish report on promoting commercial business cooperation between Greenland and Denmark was a step in the right direction, and the report summarized a number of recommendations for strengthened business efforts and enhanced cooperation between Greenland and Denmark to increase commercial investments in Greenland. Both initiatives were in line with Naalaksususut's own initiatives and strategies and, following on from cooperation in the field of business, I am pleased that both pension funds and the government have expressed their support for the establishment of a possible investment fund in the past. It is a fund that was already under discussion in 2015, when I myself was in Inatsisartut, and which is now also inscribed in the new coalition agreement of the Naalaksuisut. I look forward to further work to secure investment to Greenland and discuss this matter with the government's new Minister for Finance and Industry. Thank you very much, Mr Qujanaq.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214162325	We thank the rapporteur. The first question is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214162330	Thanks for a good speech. I would like to ask what has been the major debate in Greenland over the last few days, namely the statements by the Foreign Spokesman on Denmark. I do not want to dwell so much on the part where he called Denmark arrogant, but I would like to dwell on something that other Greenlandic politicians have also taken up: relations with the United States and the use of military bases in Greenland. I am of the opinion that the Americans have secured Greenland and the rest of the Commonwealth since the Second World War, which has made it possible to live well, safely and safely in Greenland, and I therefore find it strange that there is a demand that, in addition to having had a lot of costs in it, they should pay for their use of the bases. How does IA feel about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214162428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214162429	I want to start a completely different place, because I would really like to comment on these statements by our Foreign Minister, because they have created a lot of stir in Greenland and, in part, also in Denmark. On the part of the IA, it is important for us to emphasise that we want constructive dialogue, and I hope that the rapporteur and the other rapporteurs are also aware of this. After all, we also see that our Home Rule President in Greenland has denounced some of those statements. When you talk about Camp Century, which is something the Foreign Minister relates to from Greenland, I would say that there is a need to find a solution, and that also applies when we talk about Pituffik. After all, we have been waiting for a very long time for solutions to be found in these two different areas. I think it is important for the Danish side not to give up responsibility when we talk about, for example. Camp Century, but that you look at the possibilities in the defence agreement and if there are doubts, Greenland, Denmark and the United States have the opportunity to sit down and find a solution to it and find out who is responsible, so there is a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214162541	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214162542	I am very pleased with the words here, and I would also like to thank you for a generally very good cooperation with Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Nor do I take this statement from the Minister from Greenland as an expression of a general bad mood between Denmark and Greenland, because I do not think there is at all. I just want to say something about environmental clean-up at the military bases. I fully agree that there must of course be environmental clean-up, because we cannot leave areas where the pig is, so of course if there has been any emissions or anything else, there must be clean-up. But it's more the thing about directly collecting quotas from the Americans. So they have high costs, and it seems quite unreasonable when they have for so long guaranteed the safety of both Denmark and Greenland and have had far greater military spending than we have. Greenland has 0 DKK. in military expenditure itself and do not contribute at all to your own defence, and on top of that you come and ask the Americans to actually pay rent to be there to guarantee security.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214162641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214162642	I am very pleased that the rapporteur supports the fact that there must of course be full environmental clean-up. It is both former US military activities in Greenland, but it is also about previous Danish military activities, where there is still one outstanding which we must work to find a solution to. In relation to Pituffik and the payment of rent, base rental, or whatever you would call it, I think it is important to stress that the agreement on the service contract with Pituffik is equivalent to 10%. of Greenland's tax revenue, so of course this is something that the Greenlandic people are concerned with, and that is something that we as Greenlandic politicians are very concerned about. I think it is very important to push for a quick solution. Now it can be said that the financial rapporteur was then Minister for Foreign Affairs, and I know that this is an area in which we have been concerned about finding a solution. The uncertainty with regard to the Trump administration, which starts here in the new year, also creates an uncertainty about what it will mean for Greenland in relation to getting an agreement on Pituffik.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214162751	The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214162752	Thank you. I think it is important to concentrate on the content of what people say rather than the form they use for it, and I think it was very easy to understand what the Foreign Speaker of Greenland meant. It was said in a way, so it was heard by a lot of Danes, and one can only think that it is an advantage that he also breaks through in the press, so several Danes are interested in Greenland. But otherwise I would like to thank you for your good and diplomatic cooperation with Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. It is a pleasure to work with IA's representative in the Folketing. I would like to ask a question about the Greenlandic young people in the production schools in Denmark. We have a problem. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen mentioned it herself with the SU, and now the government is cutting off the salaries of production school pupils. This means that some of those who have not just found their way into the conventional education system are being hit hard, and probably also Greenlandic young people are being hit by it. What does Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen think of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214162903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214162904	Thank you very much for the question. First of all, I would like to stress that it is important that we should, of course, live up to the self-government law which the Folketing has adopted. I think it is important that the self-government law is on the table every day, you can say when you work with Greenland and are not hidden away in a drawer. One of the things that is written there is that Greenland has the right to a foreign policy competence when it comes to areas that Greenland has taken home. I sometimes think that one forgets that it is really a process that needs to be developed over time, one can say where Greenland also plays a larger and larger foreign policy role in the areas that concern Greenland, even when it is only about Greenland. In relation to the involvement of Greenlandic politicians in general, it is of course relevant to the defence settlement, where the current conciliation circle here a few days ago had discussions about the Arctic, and there I think it makes really, really sense that we can participate in the future. And yes, in relation to the production schools and the fact that the benefits to young people who attend the production schools are being cut, we are certainly following the case because, of course, this also affects some of the Greenlandic young people who attend production schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214163023	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214163024	Now I know that the meetings are probably closed when IA's representative negotiates with the Danish government, but has it been discussed that it might cost money to clean up Camp Century and in other of the Americans' leftovers in Greenland, and that it may end up with a Finance Act in Denmark actually having to deliver the economy that needs to clean up?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214163048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214163049	Unfortunately, what discussions have taken place between Naala Suisut and the government, I am not able to tell you much about, but if you look at the environmental clean-up in the Green Valley, you can see that somewhere between 125 and 250 million has been set aside. kr. to ensure environmental clean-up. So this clearly has major economic consequences, one might say. At the same time, it is important to ensure this full environmental clean-up, and the longer time it takes, the greater the impact on nature the environmental pollution can have.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214163127	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And the next in line is Mrs. Aleqa Hammond, UFG.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214163155	During the Finance Act negotiations, we, the Greenlandic members, were invited to sit twice and that is quite an improvement that we both are really, really happy about. I also think that the way in which the work is carried out provides an insight into what the government's priorities are in the areas that have to do with Greenland and Greenlanders in Denmark, which means that we all, each of us, have an opportunity to contribute with the knowledge we have to the areas that need to be determined. I think that workflow has been really, really good. The dialogue has been fine and we have had the opportunity to go into depth with our priorities in the areas; a great deal of attention was paid to them. And we can also look at the concrete results that come out of this. So I hope that the new Finance Minister will continue the line initiated by the former Finance Minister. In connection with the progress reform and the SU deterioration, as has already been said, we have had our concerns for our students who have chosen to study in Denmark. Many of them have not been Danish as the main language, many of them have never lived in Denmark before, and many of them have not been part of a Danish study environment, and so it will also be very demanding for our students to adapt to the reform, that is to say to be completed within the prescribed time that the progress reform is leading to. We have raised this concern in the setting-up meetings of the Finance Minister, and I understand that this concern will be taken seriously and that further work will be done on this in the next negotiations on the 2025 plan this spring. So I have high expectations that the conditions of the Greenlandic student will be looked at so as to ensure that there will be no deterioration in the future of the SU rules. I am also very pleased to see the Arctic as an important area of government action, which is also supported by the report presented by the defence, but certainly also by the Taksøe report, which points to a greater priority for the Arctic regions by the Danish Government. This also means that the claims of the Danish Kingdom on the continental shelf will require a greater work from the government in the future to ensure that the Danish, Greenlandic and Faroese requirements will always meet the requirements of the data collection. And I am also very pleased that additional funds have been allocated to support this collection and processing of the continental shelf work. I am very pleased that a majority of the parties in the Folketing are supporting the continuation of the pool funds so that the social efforts of the Greenlanders who live in Denmark and need a social effort will be taken into account at all times. I am very pleased that it continues to be included and that there is a broad understanding of it, even though I personally would have liked to see Greenlandic Members involved in the negotiations on the funding of the investment. But let it be said: there is certainly a great deal of thanks to the parties who have supported it. I also believe that the government's own recommendations have been listened to in areas of action. I also believe that the National Research Centre for Welfare's recommendations have been listened to, but certainly the statements made by the Greenlandic houses have also been listened to; we are very pleased about that. The Danish measurement of the Greenlandic sea is behind schedule, and a special solution will be sought to ensure that sea safety is raised in Greenland and in Greenland waters, so that the Danish Kingdom is also in the future equipped to deliver charts that are up to date and that are safer than those that are today. And in this context, I hope that the Danish Government, together with the Greenland Government, will work closely together to gain a common understanding of when these will have been produced and delivered to Greenlandic society. Voluntary preparedness in the field of defence work in Greenland is a very good initiative, which we certainly support, and I certainly hope that when it comes to prioritising the funds, you will support the start-up of a large, organised and well-analysed voluntary response work in Greenland, so that it gets a solid start with strong breeding ground in Greenland's society, no matter where people may live. The Greenlandic congregation in Denmark, which corresponds to about 18,000 people, is served by one Greenlandic priest, despite paying church taxes like everyone else in Denmark. This concern has been raised with us in the Folketing until several times by the Greenlandic congregation, and during the meeting we have been made aware that the problem lies not in lack of funds, but in the political will of the Ministry of Churches to devote an extra priest to the service of the Greenlandic congregation. So I hope the new church minister listens well to this and ensures that Greenlanders also receive fair treatment in the church. In the area of justice, we are very pleased that improvements are being taken care of in the field of police, so that we can achieve significant improvements, but certainly also better framework conditions, among other things. in the IT field. It will be an improvement that will be felt right, very much in the daily work of the police with the growing number of tasks throughout Greenland. During the siting meetings, we also paid particular attention to the lack of police service of the settlements in the form of municipal officers. 14 settlements out of 60 settlements are without municipal bailiffs, and this is not good for Greenland's legal certainty. And in this context, we have taken it up over and over again to ensure that this issue is taken seriously by the Minister for Justice and that it is ensured at all times that the framework conditions are so good that it will be attractive for people to get a job in the settlements as a municipal bailiff, so that it is not the lack of framework conditions that makes it impossible to get a job as a municipal bailiff. I am very pleased that the Greenland Police Commissioner will be authorised to initiate negotiations with the Greenland authorities on better conditions in the form of houses or premises that may be used by the municipal officers in the future, instead of using their own homes and their own living room, as they have done so far, to fulfil their duties as a municipal jailer. I think it is moving in the right direction and I hope that the police chief in Greenland will have a very good dialogue about this with the Greenland authorities. We have a desire to increase commercial investment in Greenland in order to get the Danish investment world to take an interest in taking part in the Greenland which is being developed today and the opportunities that exist in Greenland in the form of investments in the infrastructure investment area, but certainly also in the mining sector in Greenland. I like Danish investment because we know about Danish standards; we know about Danish culture; we know about what Denmark stands for. And in this way I certainly hope that Denmark and Greenland can benefit more from each other's opportunities than has been gained so far. As has been said before, I also think it is important for the Minister of Finance to have a close dialogue and contact with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because if we follow the dialogue and discussion today in Greenland, we know that the discussion is very much about what the Americans are doing and are not doing in Greenland at the moment. And if you are to look at the actual issue of Camp Century and future clean-up, it is important that you keep in mind that there may be investments and costs that will result in environmental clean-up and mapping and the like. So I look forward to seeing the further progress with the government now that we can see that Camp Century is mentioned in the government base. I hope that the dialogue between the Danish Government and Greenland will result in constructive and concrete solutions to bring this matter forward for the benefit of both Denmark and Greenland. I would like to thank the Ministry of Finance once again for inviting us to set meetings. And in future I would also like to see us Greenland members invited to the conciliation groups dealing with Greenland at all times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214164211	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Tórbjørn Jacobsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214164221	The late German writer and Nobel Prize winner in 1999 Günter Grass, who had a dubious political youth to look back on, writes in the book "I Krebsgang" as follows: "The story, or rather the story we've touched, is a clogged john. We're gonna wash and wash, but the shit's gonna come up anyway. ▪ For good reasons, a Finance Act has a clogged historical creature. There are centuries of political and social processes in its DNA, but above all it represents a necessary political plan and a will to run a society for a year into the future. A reasonable amount of snuff and machiavellian cunning is needed to bring together a large majority behind a financial law in such a complex and highly developed welfare society as Denmark. Therefore, the best congratulations from this to Danish democracy in the future. As a representative of a Faroese party in a foreign parliament hundreds of miles from its own home, one is in many ways in a special position in a parallel strategy that is historically and politically conditional. We have a long common destiny with Denmark, where the battle has moved the country from being a Danish county with royal monopoly trading to being a modern welfare society with a value creation equal to Denmark's, where the freedom in trade and vandal is intact, and where the political process has moved us to a situation where much of the political competence lies under the Faroese auspices of Lagting and the national government of Denmark while other resorts are still controlled from Copenhagen. As far as the Faroe Islands are concerned, yesterday's Tinget's subsidy scheme discussed in daily terms the Danish block subsidy • up to 2020. This is an annual amount of 641.8 million. kr. When block support was reduced by 366.4 million. kr. in the early '00s, at the same time as the price index adjustment was suspended from 981,9 to 615,5 million. kr. The school area. The remaining amount then represented special care of 117 million. DKK 213 million, the national insurance fund. DKK 283.6 million in health care. kr., and 1.6 million. kr. was added to the Faroe Islands Fisheries Laboratory. Since then, small changes have taken place, and this may be the reason why we are talking today about block grant-financed areas. According to the current law on the acquisition of cases and matters by the Faroese authorities, the Constitution of the State, citizenship, the Supreme Court, foreign, security and defence policy and monetary and monetary policy are sovereign under Danish auspices. What cost value lies behind the Faroese part of the overall policy in these areas is difficult to assess. However, according to the same law, it is confirmed that in addition there are 15 areas, larger and smaller, which are waiting for a Faroese takeover. P.t. We know that the Government of the Faroe Islands is working to take over the aviation, map and surveyor business, personal, family and inheritance rights and the territory of foreigners and border controls. Today, the layer has a second reading of the Faroese Finance Bill for 2017. It balances about 6 billion. kr. kr. in block-aid form, which by its very nature has made the Faroese part of the Danish Finance Act more peripheral, as expenditure and acquisitions of business areas have been accompanied over time. In addition to pensions for Danish civil servants, war pensions and other pensions under the responsibility of the Danish State, there is talk of the operation of state institutions. The two major posts are the defence of the Danish Supreme Court over the Faroe Islands and the Police and Arrest Service. On the smaller scale lies the richmanship, the land doctor, the judge's office, etc. As far as defence is concerned, we have our own security and rescue service with hardware at sea and in the air. Since this was established in the 1970s, one has had an excellent collaboration with the Danish marine, as this has been stationed in Faroese area by ship and helicopter. In addition, a West Nordic cooperation has been established under this auspices, including Norway, Iceland and Greenland. How and how to pay the defence of the Danish Supreme Court as a state operating expenditure in the Faroe Islands, I do not know for good reasons, but the judiciary and police and detention are another matter. Here we are on a different path, which is part of the basis of existence for every society. The cost of the judge's office is around 15 million. kr. a year, while police and detention costs the Danish state about 100 million. kr. according to the Kingdom Ombudsman's annual report. This is a matter which was intended to be taken over or to be established under Faroese auspices, as the autonomous country regime ruled the Faroe Islands on both sides of the Millennium Change. When the government referred to collapsed, the police and detention services were hanging under Danish auspices, and its main legacy for the future became the strong reduction in the Danish subsidy scheme for the Faroe Islands. In recent years, the Faroe Islands have recorded a concentration maneuver within the police. This has led to a thinning of the regions in the outskirts of Tórshavn, while the stationed police officers in Tórshavn have got the whole country to a greater extent as a working area. There have also been some concentration symptoms in 2016 where plans have been made to reduce preparedness in Vágum, where the country's only airport is located, and in the Faroe Islands' second largest city, Klakksvík. After the media had served the plan, municipal politicians in the above areas have been involved, and in addition, the speaker has asked the Minister of Justice about the matter. Yesterday evening, the Minister of Justice, Søren Pape Poulsen, replied to my question, and I have no doubt that his answer will have a reassuring effect in the Faroe Islands, as the staff in Vágum is now being maintained. It is a signal that a democratic society is still being listened to, including in the ministerial ridges. We appreciate that attention has been paid to this matter, which concerns the sense of security of our citizens. Another smaller area, however important, is what is going on in the university world as far as Faroese matters are concerned. Earlier this year there were voices that there were plans for savings, for example. at the Faculty of Humanities in Copenhagen, where the Nordic Research Institute would stand for shots. This would, among other things, be the case. the Faroese language would disappear as a field of teaching and research. From the Faroese side, including here at Castle, the matter has been raised in the financial law process, and it is with pleasure that it can now be seen that the Minister for Finance has increased the grant to the KU by approx. 60 million kr. since first treatment. In addition, KU has publicly stated that the Faroese language survives at the University of Copenhagen, of which the Nordic Research Institute is a part. We're gonna sign for that, too. Another matter that the MP from the Tjóðveldisflokkinum has also been involved in is the Arnamagnean Collection. In August 2016, a consultant report has been written recommending that one of the buildings to be included in the savings round is the building where this collection has had its work. We do not yet know what the KD intends to do in this area, but the additional funds allocated by the Ministry of Finance to the KD will hopefully have the consequence that the Arnamagnean Collection will not be lost. If it happens that the collection gets lost, we strongly recommend that the Faroese files be sent to the Faroe Islands for storage. In addition to this, we can also note from the amendments to the Finance Act 2017 that the Danish State plans to restore an old hospital building in Tórshavn. According to the text, this is a grant, but since it must be assumed that it is a grant to an owner of a separate land register in the Faroe Islands capital, this amount can hardly be included in the material transactions between the Danish and Faroese authorities. Assuming that this will be my last speech as a parliamentary alternate in this rebirth, I wish our brothers, the Danes, a merry Christmas and a happy New Year. In addition, I wish the government and the governing parties good wind and the opposition enough power to carry out the vital role that has fallen them into the work of making the people's government work for the benefit of the Danish people. Should this be my last speech from this platform at all, you will know my political convictions. It is not possible to change, and we are following the historic process of the Faroe Islands, so at some point we are going to discuss the state constitution, citizenship, the Supreme Court, foreign, security and defence policy and monetary and monetary policy and, of course, the transfers of funds that have been part of the everyday life of Faroese policy since the introduction of the home regime. Then it'll be the very last thing. Nobel Prize winner Günter Grass said that history is like a clogged toilet, but in spite of that one has to know the story. Not least, you have to wear it inside your intellect as a ballast in an attempt to look as far into the future as possible. As far as the future is concerned, changes should be expected, including in the political relations between the Faroe Islands and Denmark, or as the newly awarded Nobel Prize winner in fiction, Bob Dylan, sings in one of his legendary songs: •the times they are a-changen' • Thank you for this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214165245	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment. So it wasn't quite the last word. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214165252	Thank you. I'd like to sign off on your own. It has been a pleasure to have refreshed old Marxist economic analyses, which still seem to be holding up. It has also been a pleasure to hear a self-conscious concubine tell us about how things are going in the Faroe Islands. I look forward very, very much to the day when Denmark can come up to the Faroe Islands and ask if we can get some block grants here because things are going a little bad in Denmark and brilliant in the Faroe Islands. It seems to be going in that direction. But thank you very much, sir. Tórbjørn Jacobsen, for a few enjoyable months. I hope that in the Faroe Islands, when the rapporteur returns home, things will work out well.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214165337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214165339	I would also like to thank Christian Juhl for his excellent cooperation and also all the members of parliament I have met in this debate. I was here from 2001 to 2004, and let me just confirm that although the speeches can sound quite so bombastic sometimes, it is only because you have the political conviction that the Faroe Islands should stand up to themselves, that they have absolutely nothing to do with relations between the Faroe Islands and Denmark, but in a difference between the two countries. As I said in this speech today: we are brother people in the same way as we are brother people with all the other Nordic countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214165425	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Then the rapporteur's line has been exhausted, and so we are ready to give the floor to the Minister for Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214165439	Thank you to the rapporteurs for an interesting debate on the 2017 Finance Act. I would like to start by saying that today there has been praise for a party that I do not normally praise very often, namely the Enhedslisten. In fact, the Enhedslisten has made an honest and proper attempt to present its economic policy in a way that is an objective of coherence of policy. The method is an example to follow. The plan of the Enhedslisten is based on the idea that working time can gradually be reduced to 30 hours a week as productivity increases in society move forward without reducing the standard of living of the individual Dane. It is a perfectly reasonable assumption that productivity is going to increase over time. It is a mechanism that has made us richer over the years. The Enhedslisten just thinks that we are rich enough and that future productivity increases should go to shorter working hours. So it is the same wealth as today with less work. It's a vision that you can relate to. The Enhedslisten has presented it openly and honestly. I just disagree. I disagree from a personal point of view and I disagree from a social point of view. We can of course sit here in the Folketing today and say that we are rich enough in Denmark. I just doubt that it is all Danes who believe that we are rich enough when it comes to the matter. Are the elderly being treated well enough? Are we in control of our private finances? Do our children have the opportunities we think they should have? There is much we can do to achieve further, both for ourselves and for our loved ones, and there is much that we would like to be able to give them. At least that's how I feel. I don't want to stall development or turn back time. I can just think back to the story of my own family. My grandfather was born in 1907 in Sinding, a small village 10 km outside of Herning. He was a happy man, and he was fine. He was a housekeeper and satisfied with life, even though he worked almost 24 hours a day. My grandfather lived in a society where life expectancy was about 60 years old, but he was 79. For my grandfather, Sinding was the focal point of life, and Herning was a town that was far away that you didn't just go to. Copenhagen was a city that was a lifetime journey away. My father came from Sinding, too. For my father, Copenhagen was, to a greater extent, a city that could easily be reached, but Rome was the city he dreamed of visiting and still talking about with good memories. When I grew up and was young in the 1980s and 1990s, nothing in Europe was too far away. From Norway to Portugal, Europe was explored with the hope of also getting further away later. Now my children are so privileged that they have already been on more continents than I had visited European countries when I was their age. My children have the prospect of getting richer, healthier, older and more knowledgeable than I will ever be. And that's fortunately for the vast majority of us. The conditions under which we live have been changed at the same time. Fortunately, I have not had to start working as early as my father or my grandfather or under the same conditions, and I expect my children to have even better opportunities than I have had. In addition, the services offered by the welfare society to us as citizens have become much better. Fortunately, the treatment my grandfather received against cancer is far better and much more targeted than at that time. Cancer patients are treated better, live longer, and more are cured of it. The great human progress is that your children have better opportunities than you have experienced. That's how we've seen that generation after generation. From my grandfather's time to today, we have achieved that we can live longer and better, be better treated in hospitals, get more money between our hands, experience more of the world, and get more free time. We have certainly also had room for more leisure time, and it is nice, but fortunately we have not been forced to trade all the progress for more leisure time. We have striven more than we have for the sofa, and we have used the increased productivity to set new projects in motion, even to become richer, to increase our opportunities. Growth is new opportunities. Growth is more freedom, more security at the same time. Then, of course, you can think that Denmark is rich enough today and that you yourself are rich enough, and now it has to be the end of growth, but if so, it is a decision that you made on your own behalf. If my generation had made that decision when we were 20 years old in 1991, we might have had more free time today, but then we would not have seen a single economic advance, not a single new opportunity, but just the prospect of being able to do the same in less time. Denmark was certainly a fine society in 1991, but who of us would want us back to the hospitals we had then, to the consumption opportunities or holiday opportunities we had then, to the income we had then? In 1991, there were also many who had more free time than they wanted it to be called unemployment. And there were many who had a harder job with more physical wear than they do today. Part of the increase in productivity has gone to make the jobs safer and less drudgery and then leave the heavy loads to the machines. We could have stopped Denmark in 1991 and said that from then on you worked just less instead of getting richer and then bet that you could increase productivity. This could have been possible on paper, but in practice we would probably have become both poorer and more worn out. The concrete effects of the proposal are so frightening. Annual wages will fall by 19%, as will transfer income, taxes and taxes for the State as well as lower wage income. We therefore need to reduce the level of public service in order to avoid a situation where there are unsustainable public finances with growing deficits and debt. And it all rests on one construction, namely that the Danes will then accept to go down to 30 hours a week. In fact, I believe that many would like to use their abilities and creativity to work much more and to achieve the benefits of longer working hours. I even have the feeling that those who work will choose to put their efforts in many places in the world, even in places other than Stagnationsdanmark, where growth is stalled, a Denmark where there is no other future to offer the children than more leisure time. With lower working hours, there will also be some who can no longer see the reason for training so much, and it will also be able to depress productivity. Today, Denmark is a rich country. We are a rich country and our wealth has arisen from economic growth. If we have the hope that our children will feel better than we do, live longer, healthier, experience more, travel further away, exploit their full potential, then we need economic growth. Everyone is, of course, free to form their own self-sufficient collective, choose free time over work, but then it is not a choice, Enhedslisten, the government or the Folketing must make. On the contrary, if the many wishes of the parties are to be met, we must encourage more people to work, preferably more effectively. We have inherited a capital from our ancestors in terms of economic and environmental resources. We must not break down that capital, we must improve it. This requires growth • growth, which by its very nature adds more than it pulls off. Growth is when a car becomes more and more environmentally friendly, more and more safe to drive, while at the same time becoming cheaper and easier to buy for Danes. Growth is when we can treat people better for more and more diseases and sufferings in a more gentle way, with fewer rays, with adapted medications, with fewer side effects. Growth is when human resources grow and our knowledge grows, so we can do the same with the same resources. We do not need stagnation; we need growth; we need growth; we need growth that creates a freer, a richer and a safer Denmark. Fortunately, the Finance Act for 2017. The draft Finance Act has the title "Belfare, Security and Accountability' and summarises briefly and precisely the Finance Act signed for 2017. With the agreement on the Finance Act, we strengthen core welfare and make security significantly better. At the same time, we make everyday life easier for families and homeowners. Let me mention some of the main points. We are giving a boost to welfare in many areas. We are strengthening health again this year. We'll strengthen the care of the elderly again this year. Our welfare society must be recognised by how we care for our older fellow citizens and those who meet the health care system. Cancer is a quite terrible disease that affects too many families in Denmark. Through the '00s, we lifted and significantly improved the treatment of cancer, but our ambitions are greater. Our responsibility to combat cancer has not yet been resolved, and that is why we are creating a new cancer plan, Cancer Plan IV, which will provide an extra 11⁄2 billion for cancer by 2020, so that a total of 2.2 billion will be added up to 2020. kr. extra. The cancer plan must increase survival among patients and ensure that the cancer patient experiences rapid, coherent and safe processes with room for his or her own wishes. I am concerned that a recent poll has shown that many Danes are afraid to end their days in a nursing home. I am concerned about it both because many Danish nursing homes are generally much better than their reputation, and because the many employees are making a formidable effort to help and support the many citizens. But there is good reason to do a little more for everyday life. My own nursing home, i.e. not a nursing home I live in, but the nursing home in Lind, where I live, recently decided to give a whiff of everyday life and took the entire staff group, the residents and the support association to a July concert with Julie Berthelsen in Herning. Such experiences I would like to help secure some more to give more life and happiness in the everyday life of nursing home residents, and we actually do so with the Finance Act. In the area of the elderly, we are allocating 380 million. kr. annual to ensure that all nursing home residents receive a clip card for a little extra help, which the individual resident must help to determine for himself. Very many Danes have anxieties and have followed with increasing concern the ongoing gang conflict. We know that our police are doing a great job, but that the tasks of gang crime, temporary border controls, etc., make the police really, really busy. With the Finance Act for 1017 we strengthen our efforts for a safe and secure Denmark. We are increasing the number of people admitted to the police school and we are introducing a new uniformed group of police officers, the politicians, among other things. must help relieve the pressure at the border. We will not only improve our welfare society, we will also make it easier to be a Dane. That is why we have again this year found money to facilitate registration fees. Many ordinary Danish families are quite dependent on the car to make everyday life hang together, both to get to and from work and leisure activities and to bring children to and from schools and daycare centres. With the 2017 Finance Act, we make it DKK 8,000-10,000. cheaper for a family to buy a medium-sized family car. It can be felt on the economy when the car is replaced. We extend the freezing of land to 2017, so homeowners will have to pay the same in kroner and ear in 1017 as they did in 2015 and 2016. It gives security about the housing economy. In 2015, Denmark experienced an unprecedented flow of asylum seekers and migrants, which created enormous pressure on our society. Fortunately, the joint efforts of the European Union and our own tightening of the law on foreigners have meant that today we have not only slowed down the flow, but that it is actually a lower number of asylum seekers than for many years. We will continue to pursue a consistent and realistic policy on foreigners, which is why we have introduced an emergency brake into Danish immigration legislation and tightened the rules of residence and made extra efforts to ensure peace and order in asylum centres, while at the same time giving priority to aid in the neighbourhoods. That way we can help most people. We're gonna set aside 2.4 billion. kr. in 2017 for humanitarian aid, inter alia: to the neighbourhoods. Some of the funds come from saved costs, which come from fewer asylum seekers. In fact, fewer asylum seekers mean that we can transfer a total of 1 billion. kr. to the outermost regions in 2016 and 2017. Now let me just take some of the questions in the bud. The Government believes that the expenditure on refugees falling within the DAG should be included in the aid statement, but at the same time that the savings made by fewer asylum seekers are returned to aid in developing countries and to humanitarian aid in the neighbourhood. The DAG rules say, among other things, that the first 12 months of an asylum seeker's stay can be taken into account, which is why the current number of asylum seekers cannot be entirely compared with the current feature of the DAG rules. With the Finance Act, we have maintained a responsible economic policy, and the policy that the government is pursuing with the 2017 Finance Act is fully funded and does not weaken public finances. At the same time, we have dealt with an investment challenge for 2017, so our construction projects escape with what has been found funding for. And we have introduced investment frameworks in the self-employed sector, so that we are more secure against future challenges in this area. It is a responsible economic policy. Yesterday the government then lifted the veil for Economic Statement here from December 2016, and it is actually uplifting reading. After lengthy setbacks, the Danish economy is in a boom where employment is rising sharply. The Danish growth engine has started, GDP has now grown every year since 2009, and we continue along that path in the coming years. With GDP growth this year of just under 1%. We expect growth to increase to 11⁄2%. Next year and to 1.7%. in 2018. So far so good. The challenge is that we need to be careful, because there are signs that already, so early in a recovery, there is increasing capacity pressure on the Danish labour market and that the volume of available resources is low. Especially in construction, companies are increasingly reporting a shortage of labour as a challenge. As there are fewer hands on the job vacancies, the risk of bottlenecks increases and for companies to say no to orders due to a lack of employees. That is why it is important in economic policy not to push the pressure on capacity. This means that we must maintain a cautious line in fiscal policy. One can say that we have an economy where the engine is running at full speed and cannot run much stronger, and therefore we need to give the engine more horsepower in general so that we can drive longer and faster. In other words, there is a need for more people to enter the labour market and for more Danes to spend a few hours in working life. Otherwise, in Denmark, we risk the recovery ending before it really starts. The Danish labour market must be in shape and ready to accept growth. The more available hands are ready to seize the recovery, the more Danes will be included in the rise times, and the stronger an economy we will get. So the objective is clear: fewer people must be supported by the public, more people must participate in the labour market. This will be of benefit to Denmark and, above all, to those who are now outside the labour market. In this way, we can ensure that progress bites and benefits Denmark as a whole. We will therefore also make concrete proposals and proposals to strengthen Danish growth during 2017. I know that some people tend to say in such ritual terms that the debates on the Finance Act and the opening and closing debates are boring and uninteresting. However, I think, as I started by saying, that today's debate has been interesting, but in its own way. The interesting thing was not what was said, but to note what the parties did not say. The Social Democrats said that there were enough plans, and that was to cover up the fact that, for the first time in decades, they did not have their own plan for what to actually do with the Finance Act. And there are only four or four own amendments from what was once a political party in Denmark. I shall not be able to say whether this is the intellectual level of the party, or whether it merely conceals an internal disagreement in the red bloc, which one would like to hide, and that therefore no proposals will be put forward to show the differences between the parties. The Enhedslisten has, as has been said and unlike the Social Democratic Party, made a presentation and there is much attention to the proposal for the 30-hour working week. However, the interesting thing is that nothing has been said about the idea that the Enhedslisten should be able to free 21,000 full-time jobs, even on a 37-hour working week, by making administration and time recording more efficient in the public sector. I find that interesting. And I did not actually hear any such concrete suggestions as to how this should be done when the Enhedslisten's rapporteur was questioned by Mrs Louise Schack Elholm on the matter. This is not a simple matter either, but it is interesting that Enhedslisten now agrees with the government that the public sector can be modernised and made more efficient. That is why we have a new Minister for Public Innovation to ensure that some of those ideas are put into practice. And I am delighted that Enhedslisten has an ambition to free 21,000 posts. This means that it will then be possible, including for Enhedslisten, to re-prioritize the public sector, which takes some of the need for increased public spending in the coming years. Then there's the Radical Left. There was, of course, an emotional talk about what is happening in Aleppo at the moment, and the lack of uplifting and optimistic hope that we all dream of coming out of the Aleppo and Syria conflict. But perhaps what was not said was whether one had a responsibility not to intervene in the Syrian conflict in the past before the conflict had run out of hand. I would like to see every effort being made, including on our part in Denmark, to put pressure on the warring parties and to get back to a negotiating table and to create a ceasefire that is durable and long enough to give it help to the people imprisoned in Aleppo so that they can move on. That is why, of course, we also support the initiatives that can be taken by the government, but we just need to have a realistic assessment of what will be possible at this stage, as I have not yet heard anyone make a proposal that we should take military action to stop the atrocities that Assad and his allies are unfortunately carrying out at the moment. SF was mentioned all the good intentions one has, but perhaps forgot to say that they all contradict the actions carried out in the short time SF was in government. So it is interesting, as I said, what was said, but more interesting, what was not said. I would like to conclude by saying that I am very pleased that both Mrs Aleqa Hammond, Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and Mr Larsen. Tórbjørn Jacobsen took part in this debate. I think that my predecessor as Finance Minister started a good tradition of inviting the North Atlantic mandates to talk about how the Finance Act affects them, and that is a tradition that I intend to continue. And should it really be sir? Tórbjørn Jacobsen's last speech here from this fantastic platform, I would say that he did not disappoint in his rhetorical performances at the last visit up here. I would like to conclude by thanking the parties to the agreement behind the Finance Act for very good cooperation. I cannot tell you in detail about the progress and how good it has been and how happy you have been, because I have, like, come in after a final run. But I would just like to say that, in addition to the current governing parties, the Danish People's Party again shows that they are ready to take responsibility for the entire household and also take responsibility for the financing of the many wishes, no matter how difficult it may be to find the responsible funding from time to time. At the same time, I would also like to use this opportunity to sign up to the parties across the blocs for coming together to take joint responsibility for major decisions. There is a very broad agreement on the sensible dismantling of the PSO tax, which creates security about the financing of Denmark's green conversion, which strengthens the competitiveness of Danish companies, and which gives the Danes a cheaper electricity bill. And we have also found a new property assessment system that provides more accurate assessments of Danes' properties and land. At the same time, we have agreed on a refund scheme so that the homeowners who have paid too much tax since 2011 because of an over-estimated estimate get the money back. I think this is very reasonable and it shows that, despite the bushy words that politicians give each other from time to time, we actually come together in sensible forms of cooperation. With the 2017 Finance Act agreement, the government continues its work to ensure better core welfare, to make it easier to be a Dane, to create a safer and safer Denmark. This creates the basis for growth and prosperity in Denmark and for a Denmark that is moving in the right direction. As I have said, all new initiatives are fully funded and thus we have created a financial law with clear priorities which, at the same time, keep public finances on a responsible path. I welcome this because the government has high goals of sustainable growth, increased prosperity, more security and better welfare benefits for the Danes. I therefore look forward to inviting all parties to cooperate in this respect in the near future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214171808	Thank you, Minister. The first question is Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214171814	I find it somewhat disappointing that the Minister does not recognise that the Social Democracy did exactly what the Prime Minister wanted, namely to present a proposal for negotiations on a 2025 plan and an overall plan. It was even something on which the Minister's predecessor immediately started making manipulative calculations. I simply think it is too sad that we should stand here and hear the same thing again. That is not my question. I note that the Minister would like to talk about the things that were not said. Then let's do it. It has been aired several times in the debate what the retirement age should be and what the government's attitude towards it is. We have heard from the Liberal Alliance that we want to abolish the post-retirement pay altogether, what is left of it. The rapporteur of the Left has not rejected this, nor has the rapporteur of the Conservatives rejected it, so it must now be time for the government to stand up to this. Is it, or is it not the Government's intention to cut back on what is left of the post-retirement pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214171920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214171920-2	I hope that the Social Democrat rapporteur will confirm that this is an historically thin proposal for amendments to the draft budget, with which we are sitting here historically thin and that exactly the Social Democrats are down to four own amendments, I cannot recall. And when I look around the Chamber, I see no one from the Social Democratic Party who has sat longer in the Folketing than I have. So I would really like to know when it has happened lately that the Social Democrats in the opposition have only tabled four minor amendments. If it is not because you do not know what you really want with the Finance Act, then I find it difficult to find any solution other than that, because you do not want to reveal how different the parties in the red block are actually. As far as the question is concerned, I think it is quite strange that, after hearing repeated rounds with the Prime Minister over the past week about exactly the same thing, I expect to have a different answer from the Prime Minister. I have not, and the answer is therefore that in the coming period we will present a comprehensive, renewed 2025 plan, in which we will also propose a concrete model for how to make a later withdrawal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214172030	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214172031	After all, it is because the Prime Minister has not been asked to deal with what the Liberal Alliance's financial rapporteur has said, so it is the position of the Liberal Alliance that the post-earning salary should be changed. What the debate so far has been about is what the retirement age should be, whether there should be a change in the withdrawal reform that exists. This question of early retirement is, after all, new, and it has been reversed in today's debate, as the Minister has also heard, and so it is entirely relevant to ask: what is the government's position on it? Are the people who are guaranteed an early retirement now also in danger of changing that too?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214172113	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214172113-2	We have said openly that we want the agreement and the principle behind the agreement for 2006, namely that you have 141⁄2 years of retirement, to be one of the things you need to look at. The fact is that our life span has already grown so much longer that the retirement age is higher. If we want to afford the things we want in the future, we need to make the Danish economy more sustainable. That is why we come up with a proposal on how to create a unified model for a later withdrawal. But we don't have the model today. Neither did we when the Prime Minister was asked about this in Question Time yesterday or when he was asked about it in connection with the debate on the new government statement here recently.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214172153	Thank you. The next question is Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214172155	Thank you. Just a comment first and then a question. After all, the Minister for Finance should be pleased that there are not so many amendments. Well, that's because it's an amazingly good financial law. I can also understand that, that is to say, we have had power for years, when there was minus growth, and so here we see that for the second year in a row we are actually repairing something about it. We have a small moderate growth in public spending, and we can see that care for the elderly is better, etc. I think that is very positive, and the new Finance Minister should also welcome this. There is another point I would like to ask the Minister. It is true, as was said, that the Minister was not present at the time. A passage has been inserted stating that it is urgent to talk about profit principles in relation to social benefits. This is something that the Danish People's Party has fought for and that we would like to look at. We can look at social services law. That's what you might say a little humorously sometimes is translated into really, very many languages, but that doesn't make it any less relevant. Because if you look at § 2, you see that it says that anyone who is legally resident in the country is entitled to help under this law. That's kind of what we'd like to challenge. We have written in there that we must discuss this as soon as possible. There I would like to ask the new Finance Minister whether, according to the new Finance Minister, it will be here as soon as possible in 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214172310	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214172311	I fully share the view that it is an excellent financial law agreement that has been concluded. I can say that with full force because I didn't make it myself. That is why it is easy to praise others for their good work, and I would therefore like to pay tribute to the financial agreement that has been concluded. But I just cannot understand why, if you are as critical as I hear the left side of the House, you do not propose more amendments than the very few amendments that lie in it. Enough about that. I share the desire for greater use of an income principle for Danish welfare services. I do so because we all know the basics of a social benefit, for which many of us have known and saved up for many years, namely the retirement pension. The Danish national pension is something that you only get if you have spent 40 years in Denmark. It is a principle that I would like to see extended to other services, because I have the basic view that one must provide before one can enjoy, and if one wants to enjoy the Danish welfare benefits, I also believe that one must be part of society and contribute to the community fund through a tax payment. That is why, in the new year, we are going to have to start this discussion. How the calendar gets timed, we're still looking at. But I believe it's gonna be early in the new year.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214172426	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214172427	Well, I'd like to sign for that. Because can the Minister not also confirm that when we go in and look at this with profit principles, it is in fact also in order to safeguard the welfare benefits that we know, in other words, to safeguard the welfare society that we know today? That is what we would like tomorrow and the next day. I just have to say that a lot of these services are under pressure, among other things. from the EU system because you have some rights, among others. because we also write in the Danish text of the law that anyone with legal residence can search for this law. It has to be said that just such things as dental treatment are under intense pressure in the municipalities. Then the Minister cannot confirm that the issue here of talking about profit principles is not just about looking at benefits in isolation, but that it is actually also about safeguarding the welfare society that we know today, with the benefits that make it possible to care for those who have the most difficulty for a shorter or longer period of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214172518	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214172520	I fully agree that it is about how there will be an opportunity to create a system in Denmark where we decide who will receive our welfare benefits. Fortunately, it is the case that the EU system has succeeded in influencing it, so that we now have an opening up to the so-called Regulation 883 which regulates some of these conditions. We have not reached the finish line. We haven't gotten far enough. However, this shows that the EU system can also convert things and press them to change their attitude, so that there are now clear guidelines for countries to be more independent in determining the rules for allocating, for example. daily subsistence allowance. I think we should continue to look at this, and I am sure we will do so together in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214172557	The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214172559	Thank you, and thank the Minister for Finance for his speech. A lot of nonsense was said about Enhedslisten's proposal about 30-hour working week, but I will remedy that by taking the floor in a second round I cannot reach that in 1⁄2 minutes. What I want to ask the Minister is something quite different. The Minister says that there is a policy of financial responsibility, and I think that the Minister of Finance understands something like the balance between state revenue and expenditure. But we are also pursuing a policy which has very severe social consequences. The Industrial Council of the Workers' Movement has just published a report showing that the government's ceiling on cash aid will double the number of poor children in Denmark from 8,000 to 15,000. The other day it could also be read that Denmark has thus drifted up to a first place in relation to child poverty among the Nordic countries. Is it financially responsible, sir? Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214172706	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214172707	I think it is not only financially responsible, but also humanly responsible, to ensure that those who get up in the morning go to work, do their jobs, work hard, also in low-paid jobs. In fact, they have a financial gain from being active in the labour market compared to those who are not. What has been the problem is that for a number of reasons, such as: In this context, I would like to stress the importance of the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work. I don't have a goal for people to be on cash benefits. I have a goal for them to be in work. I welcome the fact that we have managed to reverse the trend in cash benefits, so that in recent times it has come to 4 000 fewer on cash benefits, because we have got so much work going in the Danish economy that some work is actually being created and because we have taken initiatives that create incentives to take up the vacancies that are available. My policy and that of the government is not that people should be on cash benefits. It is that they should be in work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214172805	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214172806	Yes, that is to say, as far as I have been able to read, it is because the 4 000 people who have disappeared on cash benefits have gone to integration benefits, but perhaps the Minister can clarify that; it is not because of the ceiling on cash benefits, in any case, that they have simply been pushed over to another benefit. That is how the government's argument is filled with disinformation. Yes, it pays to work for all groups in Denmark. The gap between unemployment and what you get to work has increased and increased for decades, and besides, you cannot just choose not to work. To receive a benefit in Denmark, you must be available for the labour market and take the jobs offered. So stop blaming the unemployed for unemployment in Denmark. The Minister must assume responsibility for job creation in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214172845	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214172847	I am not really blaming the unemployed for unemployment. I'm just saying, the gain from getting to work is too small. I believe so, and the government believes so. And we have clearly said that we will ensure that we create a situation where it is better worth working. That is why one of the first things we are going to start to do is to implement a job premium in which cash benefit recipients and others who have been out of the labour market for a long time get a cash gain by getting in to take a job. What we can see in the statistics is quite clear that employment in Denmark is increasing. Private employment has increased quite significantly since the change of government. We are up to an employment that is almost only surpassed in the years 2006 and 2007, when we did not manage to cope with the expansion of the workforce enough to keep up. Therefore, our task now is to ensure that we increase the workforce in order to avoid the bottlenecks that helped to overheat the Danish economy in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214172939	The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214172943	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. I actually put a question to the Minister for Finance from upstairs, and I actually thought the Minister for Finance would take that in his speech. I think I asked the Minister for Finance what kind of future the Minister for Finance sees. What are the visions of the Minister of Finance? Because I actually find that very difficult to read from the Finance Act we have. Now we have a new finance minister, and congratulations on that. I thought it might be that we could have such longer-term prospects of what we want a future society to look like. How do we ensure that we have a sustainable transformation of Denmark? How is it that we ensure that we take care of the exciting opportunities that exist, with digitisation, artificial intelligence, etc.? There is nothing at all, nothing at all, in relation to those challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214173037	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214173038	I want my children to grow up in a society that is prosperous, that is free and where you can move without being worried about getting hit by random shots; where parents can send their oldest teenage daughters into the city without being worried about how they get home. I want a society in which I give my children a planet that is in a better shape, including environment and climate, than the one I took over from my parents. I want a society where we make the most of technological opportunities; therefore I am glad that it has been written in the government base that we want to create the framework for the use of new technology and new technology that breaks with the known boundaries we have and with the way in which the world is thought based on old technology. There are so many amazing things happening in terms of getting smarter, getting better at exploiting resources and doing so with a lower pressure on the scarce resources of society and our planet. Well, that's what we're gonna do. And in order to seize it, we need to be ready to transform society. That is why we must also have a society that can be reformed more quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214173146	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214173147	But that is very good, because the former Finance Minister replied to the same question last year and he said: 'The box must vote'. So, after all, there's a little higher to the ceiling now. I can only thank you for that. But I think it's hard to recapture these things in the Finance Act... I actually think it is. In other words, training being cut in the production schools is being cut. We know that we must invest in our young people, because they are the ones who have to safeguard our future. We still have too high emissions of CO2 We have signed the Paris Agreement, which we must live up to; we have signed the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We cut the cash benefits and so on. So I think the government is borrowing from the future rather than investing in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214173232	Minister
ParlaMint-DK_20161214173233	We are preparing our welfare societies for the challenges we face in the future. Competence pools have been introduced around to help the different places where there is a need to raise the professional level. We are introducing better welfare in the form of the fight against cancer; a terrible disease, which I believe has affected far too many families. We help to ensure that Danish economy is kept on track. But where I am If it doesn't do that, our economy runs off the rails.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214173307	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214173308	I must not hide the fact that when I prepared today's debate on finance legislation, I had intended to ask the Minister for Finance about the main savings that the government is making in the field of education. Quite contrary to what you say, you cut 2% each year. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. But the situation in Aleppo makes me want to spend my time on something else. It is to ask the former Foreign Minister and current Finance Minister whether it would be possible to imagine that the government would come up with better ideas and, together with a broad majority in this Parliament, to send extraordinary urgent support to Aleppo, which everyone can see needs. I think the money's there. After all, we will have significantly fewer asylum seekers for Denmark this year than we have calculated, and we could appropriately use that money for emergency, additional humanitarian aid for Aleppo. Couldn't the government consider making an effort and not just passing on that money to 2017, but instead, along with us, spend the money for the help that Aleppo clearly needs so much?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214173416	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214173417	The government actually has a better offer. The government has an act in the Finance Committee of not only 200 million. DKK, but at 500 million. kr. kr. That is why we could actually top the 200 million. kr. Up if it was such a competition. We could also be a little more specific about that. The fact is that the number of asylum seekers is lower than we expected. And the cost is lower than we expected. However, there are a number of costs that go further, since it is the first 12 months that an asylum seeker, a refugee, is in the country that is expected to join the DAC area. That is why, of course, we are making sure that we comply with the DAC rules. We also ensure that the money saved is returned to development aid. I hope we can find a common solution for the action that lies there so that the money can get to work. We have seen a total of 1 billion. kr. of saved asylum costs for the neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214173524	The questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214173525	I do not think there are any parties in the Folketing who will oppose the implementation of that act. But when we ask questions about it, and when we have an extraordinary consultation tomorrow and a discussion, it is because the amount is not greater as the savings appear to be greater. I understand that it is difficult to make an exact calculation at this stage, but the Minister for Finance must admit that when the number of asylum seekers falls by 4 000, there must be some money to be saved that we could send down to the refugees. As the Minister for Finance has just said, it is government policy that every penny we save at home should be sent to the neighbourhoods. Shouldn't we go and do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214173605	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214173606	That is also why we have put forward a document. It is in order to be able to convert the funds that are not spent on asylum costs in Denmark to help in the neighbourhood. With the 2017 Finance Act, we have proposed that we have the highest level of humanitarian aid that has ever been: 2.4 billion. kr. So both what we are doing this year, if we get it through the Financial Committee, and what we are doing with the Financial Act for next year, is actually helping as much as possible in the neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214173636	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214173637	I'm sorry, Minister, but I just have to say it plainly: you're cheating on the weight. You're making it sound like there's going to be extra money for the neighborhoods. Firstly, funds are being converted from development aid to the asylum area. Then the number of asylum seekers is reduced from 25 000 to 10,000, and now we know that it will only be 6 000 this year. Then it sounds as if there is a gift on the way to the vicinity when you want to move the money back to development aid. But what the government does not want to tell us is: when there is a difference from 10,000 to 6,000, do they come back to foreign aid or do they disappear? Because the note published today in Monday morning shows that there has been a response from the Minister for Integration that that money will not be returned because of calculation techniques etc. It's a three-digit million dollar. Will the Minister for Finance not answer whether the government does not owe a three-digit sum of millions because the figures that we know will not be downgraded at around 6 000 this year?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214173743	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214173744	We owe nothing, compared to the fact that the money saved by downgrading the estimate for asylum seekers is going to increase development aid. We have said just as the previous government, of which Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's party was a part, that expenditure on asylum seekers in Denmark under the DAC rules is counted as part of development aid. When there is less spending, there is more to be spent on aid in developing countries. And we have chosen to spend a large part of the extra money on humanitarian aid in the neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214173817	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214173818	An economic statement has just been presented, and my Socialist colleague really asked why the revised figures are not mentioned in it. There was no answer to that. There will then be consultation tomorrow. But the answer is, you could have downgraded it. Then you could spend this money before the turn of the year. Now that money disappears into thin air. They have been taken directly from foreign aid. If you downgraded to the correct level that we all know it will be, namely 6,000 people, then there would be extra money for development aid. On top of that, it costs per person. asylum seekers in this country now five times as much as in 2012. Well, it's artificially bloated. So you're cheating on the weight.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214173904	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214173905	No weight will be cheated. The amount that can be reported to the OECD under the DAC rules will be assessed precisely in relation to the actual costs incurred. If there is more budgeted in relation to the estimated number of asylums, we have returned the money. There's an act. It cannot get through the Financial Committee as it is right now. If it had come through the Finance Committee, and had its questions been asked subsequently, some money had already been closer to being used for the benefit of the neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214173937	I'll have to interrupt Mr. Knox. Magnus Heunicke, because now it's time to ask questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214173940	Thank you. I was talking to my financial rapporteur because I had to be absolutely sure of the figures here. Because we heard the government's Finance Minister in a fairly severe attack, I think, on the large opposition party, namely my party, the Social Democratic Party, in relation to the number of amendments that we have tabled to this year's draft budget. And the Minister gloated and said that it was all too bad, too bad, that we had tabled four clear amendments ourselves. We have also tabled some proposals with other parties, but we have tabled four amendments on our own. In this regard, it might be interesting to know whether the Minister, who was previously the chairman of the Left Party, knows how many amendments the Left managed to table to the draft Finance Act in 2013. Does the Minister know? So we've set four.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174035	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174039	Sir. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174041	I would then recommend to the Minister the next time he attacks other parties, perhaps to look good first. For the matter is that the Left at that time, in opposition, managed to table four amendments... exactly the same figures that the minister just before entertained the whole Chamber with were too poor for the Social Democratic Party to put forward. Such in all friendship: should we not move forward and talk about content rather than that? Because quite frankly, when you point fingers, there are many fingers that point to yourself, at least in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174109	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174110	I did not see any question in the last speech, so it is difficult to find anything to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174115	Then we move on to Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174116	Thank you, and thank the Minister for Finance. Now we've got a pretty good financial agreement. There may always be some knots and thorns and something like that in, but it's pretty good. One of the things that the Minister of Finance mentioned was this one with a shortage of labour in the future. We must also look at this: the shortage of labour in the future. In this context, we have a tripartite agreement on the qualification of unemployed people, but they are particularly beneficiaries of unemployment benefits which the tripartite agreement seeks to upgrade. Is the Minister of Finance prepared for us to look at those who may have gone out of the benefit system and actually have some qualifications, but who are lacking in qualification and also cash benefits recipients, so that we can get an effort going where we match them with companies so that we can get qualified workers out to companies? Many of them may just go and lack a qualification, but they may not have any performance. It may be that they are self-supporting, that they need an upskilling in order for companies to be able to use them. Does the Minister of Finance not think that these are also some that we should look at here when we enter the new year?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174222	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174223	I believe that with the level of employment that we have reached and the level of unemployment that we have come down to, we need to look at all the opportunities to get the last unemployed hands to work. When you hear companies around Denmark complain that they find it difficult to fill the posts that are with people with the right competence, then we have to look at how to solve this competence problem. One could also look at how the competence funds which the social partners themselves have built up through agreements might be better and more likely to come into play. But all this is something that I must say I am still working on, and that is why I do not have a concrete model or a concrete proposal. I also believe that it will be more the Minister for Employment who will have the task, which is important and essential, of ensuring that we increase the skills of the unemployed in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174316	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174317	I fully agree with that, and I do not expect the Minister of Finance to have that insight either, because there is enough to look at as Minister of Finance. But it is after all the Finance Minister who has to say yes to us spending some money on upgrading, because the agreements made with the parties are primarily for those in the benefit system. Those I'm talking about are those who may have gone out of the benefit system, those who have become self-supporting. It may be that some of them have gone to cash benefits. That's the group we need to look at extra. And it would be nice if the Minister for Finance thought it was a good idea and that we could also get some money from the Minister for Finance to make that effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174356	I think it is a wise and good idea to ensure that we have the right workforce for the jobs that are available around us or for the jobs that could be created if there was enough labour in this area. And how we're gonna do it, how we're gonna make sure we have this match and how we get involved, that both companies and the social partners in general take their share of responsibility for it, I think we're gonna come back to in the new year.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174421	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174422	Thank you. I'm a little older than the minister, I think. At any rate, I could hear it from the study of the lives of fathers and grandparents. When a citizen has told me that something is an interesting question and that it is even a wise calculation that is behind it, I have always said to myself that now you have to be careful. However, it is nice to hear that there is an interest in the 30 hours, and I would say that while the Minister's grandfather and father have lived, we have gone from a 60-hour working week to a 37-hour working week, while at the same time building a welfare society that most of us are basically proud of. Some of us are so little nervous that it is being broken down into the corners at the moment. It is therefore possible to create both growth and development and to reduce working hours. It's not that difficult. I think the Minister is guilty of totally ignoring the fact that the developments ahead of us with IT, robots and automation will continue. Why is the Minister so pessimistic that he does not believe that we have room for more leisure time in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174531	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174533	That's what Mr. Christian Juhl and Enhedslisten overlook, is that when you have been able to make such a shortening of working time, it is because you have significantly increased the workforce by more people working for a longer time, by more people entering the labour market, by women having a much higher participation today in the labour market than they had at least in my grandfather's time. What, sir? Christian Juhl's age is, I don't want to start guessing, so I can't tell you what it's been like in mr. Christian Juhl's childhood. The fact is that the labour market reserve which was introduced and which helped to create the productivity increase that enabled us to afford both welfare increases and shorter working hours, just as I said in my speech, is not in Denmark today. We have a very, very high participation effect among all those who are of adult age; we have a lot of people who unfortunately are on transfer income and who need a helping hand to get back, so you put the future at a standstill if you choose to use the Enhedslistens model. You put things at a standstill and then you make sure that we are kept to a level of welfare that is lower than in the countries around us.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174637	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174638	That is simply not true. When I was a young and happy forest worker in Silkeborg, we were 650 forest workers in Denmark in the state forests. Today there are only between 150 and 200 forest workers, and they make sure that it is still running. That is how things are developing, and the Minister must take that into account. And then life isn't a spreadsheet. In particular, this Minister for Finance should be aware of this when he has been Minister for Development in the past. We have 17 new world goals which, in the Minister's view, mean that we must transform society. There is a difference between economic growth and development. Doesn't the Minister understand?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174719	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174720	But the point is that, as we have had economic growth, we have also been better able to deal with some of the environmental and social problems we have seen. I will not trade the standard of living we have today with the standard of living that was in my childhood. Nor do I want to trade it for the standard of living that was in Mr. Christian Juhl's childhood. I have thus seen the ambition that we have a society that is moving forward that is becoming richer and stronger with better welfare benefits, with higher levels of freedom, and with a wealth that makes my children have a better life than I have had.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174751	Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174753	As rapporteur for the Alternative, among other things: I look forward to having a new top leader. I have very good cooperation with the current tax minister, and I also hope to have it with our new Finance Minister. I have a wish to be invited to a little more negotiations. I have mentioned this to the Minister for Taxation too, but I hope that the Minister for Finance will be able to help push so that the parties outside the agreements or conciliations that are being made can be invited with, so that we may be able to offer ourselves in good time where there is a chance of finding common ground. I have a first question. If this is more feasible, even if you are not part of the agreements, I believe that wider conciliation can be achieved along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174836	I have no problem inviting people into negotiations or making agreements with them. In fact, just when this parliamentary assembly started in October, a media called the newspaper.dk, which absolutely does not normally stick close to my party, came with a statement that the now former government, the Left Government, had Danmark record in the least possible block policy. Now we should not speak ill of former prime ministers, but it says something about the present Prime Minister's ability to make broad settlements when it is the case that a Denmark record is created in broad cooperation during the first year of narrow Left Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174921	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214174922	As I said, I will try to get across as wide as possible and make these agreements. However, I have a crisis of confidence, and I think the Minister is aware of that. Because in the last two months, we've been sitting across from each other looking into each other's eyes, and then I noticed that we had made a deal that was broken. Former Minister of Justice, sir. Søren Pind has told me that the agreement we made on the Iraq investigation is exactly as we agreed in the morning of time. But the former Foreign Minister has told me that that agreement is not being kept. I would like to be able to keep and trust agreements in the future. So when it was said in our last debate that agreement among five was enough, that it was four that agreed, is it because we agreed to what we say in the Alternative: 2 + 2 = 5 • so that you have started to believe in some other methods of calculation, or how can I understand that it is enough for five to agree that there are only four?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175009	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175010	Of course, the prerequisite for making agreements and reaching a settlement is trust in each other. I don't have a problem with trusting that sir. René Gade and the Alternative will enter into agreements, also in the future. I had a specific challenge in relation to the fact that there was a matter to go on and the many solutions put on the table proved impossible to reach agreement on. And when there is one party out of five who stand firm on one solution and four out of five who stand firm on another solution, I think most, if the matter is to be moved forward, will naturally say that the four out of five are probably the ones who move it forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175046	Then it's Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175047	Thank you. The Minister for Finance is quite right to say that it has been interesting to listen to today's debate, especially with regard to the whole question of what the Danes can expect about retirement and retirement age. Because there have been some rather interesting points in the debate during today's debate on the part of the governing parties. First of all, we heard the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur confirm that, in order to increase the supply of labour, we were prepared to abolish the last part of the post-retirement wage. We heard Mr. Jacob Jensen from the Left show that he was ready for the same • and the Conservatives' rapporteur the same, although in a way he thought there was a great difference between being the Conservatives' rapporteur and the Conservatives' participation in government. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: how will we increase the supply of labour by the 60,000 people who are put up in the government base? After all, it is much more than this six-month increase in pensionable age, which was envisaged in the overall plan. Is it by the fact that the Danes, who still expect to be able to go on early retirement, have to drop that thought?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175159	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175201	We have thus pointed out three ways of increasing the supply of work. One way is to stay a little longer on the labour market • that the retirement age is slightly higher. As was also mentioned by one of the Socialist questioners earlier, the aim was to be able to live 141⁄2 years in retirement after retirement, and the life-cycle development that has already taken place shows that you are living much longer. So, if we are to stick to the objective that was left in 2006, yes, then there is the possibility and space to have a higher retirement age. It was one way. The other way is to ensure that more people gain a greater benefit from entering the labour market. We have written, and indeed we have reserved money for the previous government, a job reform II which ensures that the tax on the first job you take, so to speak the first earned crown, is reduced. I think that is fair. Because I think it is fair that low-income groups in Denmark are also allowed to keep some more of what they earn to themselves. Last but not least, we have pointed out in the government base that the limit on when to pay top tax must be raised, so that more, for example. Danish Metal's members, who today pay top tax, can avoid doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175306	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175316	That was fine, but it wasn't really an answer to my question. Does this mean that the government does not intend to abolish the last part of the old-age pension, nor does it intend to raise the pensionable age further than the six months envisaged in the overall plan of the then government?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175324	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175325	The questioner needs to remember his own question. Because I was asked before how we would increase the supply of work, and then I mentioned the three avenues that we have specifically identified in the government base in order to increase the supply of work. So the question is: will we then put forward a concrete proposal to do one thing or the other? There is the same answer today, as it was at yesterday's Question Time and at the additional opening debate last Monday, namely that we will return to it in the new year when we come up with concrete proposals as to what is to be of new retirement age. I am just saying that, in relation to the principles that were laid down in 2006, we are actually living significantly longer today than we were then.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175403	Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175404	I assume that the Minister for Finance, in his capacity as former Foreign Minister, has also followed the very appalling situation in Aleppo with an acute escalation of violence in which civilians are executed, bombed, children are burned alive. This also means that there is an urgent need for help. After all, abstract promises are not just needed for more help to be given to the neighbourhoods in the future. We need help with Aleppo right now. That is why we have made that proposal, and I would like to make it an appeal instead to the government: will the government send money to Aleppo now, like tomorrow? Because that would be the consequence if the government chose to vote in favour of the amendment we are proposing. Then we will be able to send money to Aleppo tomorrow. Will the government agree to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175456	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175457	Then I would like to make an appeal the other way: stop, however, putting a stop to the discussion of the Financial Committee's report, which will result in 0.5 billion. kr. in the area. If you want to ask questions, do it afterwards. After all, no one in the Committee on Finance can ask a question after the document has been approved. You can ask all the questions you want, and you can think that we've been miscalculating or hiding something, or whatever. But do not hide the half-billion that the government is trying to drop off. If you want the money so badly, give an answer as to why you don't pass it on.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175529	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175529-2	The government knows very well that we would like to send that money. Now we are talking about 200 million. kr. In addition to the money that the government has set aside and which we would like to send out tomorrow. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Finance: will the government be involved in sending 200 million? kr. To Aleppo tomorrow? Is the government prepared to do so regardless of the teasing or not? There are people who need that help now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175554	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175555	The thing is, this isn't a joke, at least not from the government. We have a specific proposal before the Committee on Finance. That money could have been approved and sent, but there were some parties who have asked questions that have suspensory effect, and that is fully their right; parties may do so in the Finance Committee. So the money hasn't gone. Then there is the question of whether we are going to allocate another 200 million. kr. of the reserve. No, we will not, because we have set aside 1 billion. kr. extra for help in the neighbourhoods in 2016 and 2017, and the money could have been out and working now if that act had been approved.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175630	Then it's Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175633	Thank you. When the Minister started the speech, the Minister mentioned some visions that the Minister's children should be richer and healthier and wiser and what else I just got written down here on my paper. But the Minister also said that this is the case for most people, but what may be missing from that middle bill is that this is not the case for everyone. That is also why it is a little interesting that we cannot get an answer from the government as to what we really have in mind in relation to the retirement age. One of the things that you forget in that middle bill is the great uncertainty you create for all those who do not have the prospect of a life just running on rails and who have a working life that is hard and physically worn out. Should they then go and wait here over Christmas and not know whether the government is actually going to raise the retirement age more than the six months announced so far? Can we not have a clear answer to that, because I think that would suit the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175735	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175736	I was just beginning to think that Mrs Lea Wermelin would say that I also wanted my children to be more beautiful. I would say that I actually hope they will be, but that was not what I said, because that was the other very positive thing. I really hope that all parties will take this debate on a higher retirement age a little more seriously than what we are experiencing today. I hope you'll try to say that now that you have a life that gets easier, because we have help tools, that's what Mr. Christian Juhl called machines and other things that take the heavy lifting so that we get less worn down, at least physically, could we not also help to ensure that we do something good for those who have the hardest time by those who are healthy and bodily staying a little longer in the labour market? The retirement age that people now have is on the way to 67, and that is also what we asked people to live to by the year 2004. Since then we have become healthier and we live longer, should we not also be able to keep working a little longer if we are not worn out?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175842	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175843	After all, the Minister does not answer the fundamental question that, with the plans that had been put on the table, we in Denmark wanted the OECD's highest retirement age, and that is what the Minister then says: yes, yes, but it is easy to stay on the labour market any longer. But there are some answers that the government owes to this, because what about the Danes who can't manage to stay on the labour market any longer, either the six months planned by the government, or perhaps the 18 months which seem to lie in the plans of the government? Surely we must be able to get an honest answer there, rather than being concealed disappointment plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175919	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175920	The questioner is quite right to say that in my first answer I did not answer the question, but it was because the question was a repeat of now three different Socialist questions on the same subject. I feel that I cannot answer the question in any other way just because it is repeated, and then I thought that I would rather enrich the conversation here with something else factual, namely that we actually live longer and are less worn out because we have better equipment. The point is, as I have said now, that in the new year we are coming up with a proposal which, among other things, is: is based on staying a little longer on the labour market, because we can therefore afford to make better efforts for those who really have the hardest time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175955	Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214175958	Thank you. Next year's Finance Act is a very good Finance Act, especially for our older fellow citizens. After all, it is based on last year's financial law, which was already a good financial law for our elderly people, but if the ambition of the Finance Act is to ensure better conditions for our elderly people, then we must ensure that the municipalities do not pillage at one end what we are building on at the other end. There is, of course, a tool for the Minister of Finance in the economic agreement with the municipalities, where we can go in and make regulations that ensure that we build on the care of the elderly and do not go down again. Will the Minister of Finance go into such work and ensure that the municipalities will only expand the care of the elderly in the future and not pillage what we are building on in the context of finance laws?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214180049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214180051	If you look at the figures reported by the municipalities in relation to how much they spend in the area of the elderly, and if you look at what is then added to the finance agreements that the government has made with, among other things. Danish People's Party, you will see that it has been laid year by year in how much is spent in the municipalities for the elderly area. I think it is important, as was asked, that the resources we give priority should also be used in the areas that are given priority. We must then jointly find a model and secure what does not bind the money into an administrative system where we have wanted them to come out to warm hands and then instead go to administration and reporting. There, I think, we need to think together about how we can ensure that the funds which are being allocated and which we can see in the budgets, fortunately, also come to the area of the elderly, come out in an administratively easy way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214180142	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214180144	It is gratifying that the vast majority of money has come out and contributed to more warm hands and to a more dignified care for the elderly, but unfortunately there are also examples such as: in Aarhus Municipality, where you have chosen to take out the money you got extra. In connection with the budgeting in Aarhus Municipality, it was then decided to pull it out of the older administration and put it into other administrations. This is a bad starting point for the older citizens of Aarhus Municipality who had looked forward to getting better conditions, that because there is a Social Democratic mayor who does not want the Finance Act, he is allowed to destroy it. Isn't the Minister going to do something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214180224	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214180226	First of all, I want to give the citizens of Aarhus an opportunity to do something about it next November. There you can choose a city council composition that makes you have more attention to the huge challenge, also with the growing elderly population in Aarhus. As far as we are concerned, we are trying to set up guidelines and must balance this with the fact that the more we try to manage a cash flow in detail, the more we run the risk that it will require some administration, which I do not think the questioner or I really want the money to go to. But let us work together on the best possible balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214180300	Then it's Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214180306	Thank you. I do not really think it is so glorious for the Minister of Finance to be pissed off about getting questions about the retirement age of our people. I know that this is something we have asked a lot about, but it is also because it concerns us. I think it is an expression of this when, as a government in the government base, it is proposed to increase the supply of work by 60 000 and, moreover, it is said that it will later tell us how to do it. And when we hear rapporteurs from three different government parties today would not reject anything at all, we have to understand that nothing is sacred and that everything is at stake when it comes to providing this almost sacred service. This creates a maximum insecurity for people, which is why we have of course asked about retirement age, but on top of what has been said today, we also ask about early retirement. For among the three rapporteurs who were before the Minister went on, no one would deny that the post-retirement pay should be abolished altogether. And so, it would be nice to hear the Minister's and the government's views on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214180415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214180416	Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen must not think that I am angry to be asked the same thing. On the contrary, it just makes my day easier and simpler. It's a great help when you have to stand up here for one hour, that you just have questions about the same thing, because then you shouldn't concentrate on answering something new or something else or being challenged by something really difficult, but you can just continue to answer the same thing as before. I cannot say anything other than that I have done, namely that we will come back to it. We have an ambition to work longer, and we do, because we know that it is the case that the Danes are healthier and more bodily, and that with the new efforts that come into the labour market, fewer are worn out. Those who get worn out anyway, whether physically or mentally, we must take care of. However, the supply of work is indeed interesting, and this is partly because, in March 2012, I asked the then Minister for Employment whether it is true that employment, i.e. how many people work, depends on how much work is available. The answer was as follows: as Minister for Employment, I agree that employment in the long term depends on the supply of labour. And then it says something more: With your kind regards, Mette Frederiksen. I think that was a good answer, so if we want to be richer and have more people in employment, the job supply needs to come up.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214180525	Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214180527	First of all, I think that we should focus on the fact that it is in the long term. It sounds almost as if the government thinks that if we increase labour supply here and now by 60 000, then 60 000 jobs will also be created accordingly. That's not exactly how the economy works. By the way, I also think something has happened since 2012. I also think that there are leading economic professors, among others. Nina Smith, who has been out to say that the time to just pursue employment is long gone. There are other things that need to be done. We need to make people smarter now, among other things. to secure the necessary hands for our businesses. I believe that this is a missed focus, and I believe that the government is creating insecurity for a huge group of people.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214180605	Thank you. Then it's the minister to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214180606	I think we should do both and. We must both ensure that we have excellent and talented young people coming out of our educational institutions. And then we have to make sure that those who can work more, among other things. By reducing the tax on the lowest incomes, among other things. know that we also ask some to stay a little longer as you can be there longer. No, I do not think that because you change the supply of work, day one is employment for everyone. However, if you look at the financial statement that has just arrived and you do not even need to be changed in the technical chapters, but just see at the end of Chapter 1 you will see that the changes that have been of the pre-retirement age actually go through directly in a larger job supply and higher employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214180644	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214180646	Thank you. And thank you to the new finance minister. After all, we fully agree that the box should vote, and that is also why we have tabled a financial bill, which I hope the new minister, when he negotiates his first Finance Act, will perhaps be inspired by. Now, of course, I know the minister from his former area of responsibility, development policy and foreign policy, where he, as Foreign Minister, was very concerned about the UN's new sustainability objectives and also our international commitments in relation to the climate action and the Paris agreement that we have signed, so I would like to hear from you in relation to the financial law that we have now in place, whether the consequences of the two international agreements that we have signed with us have been taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214180730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214180732	In fact, I cannot give an answer as to whether there is a calculation of it. On the other hand, I can say that when it comes to our adherence to the UN's global goals, it is the case that the government will come up with a concrete action plan. This work has been slightly postponed due to the change of government and new ministers in this area, but we are bringing forward an action plan in this area which shows what Denmark must do to remain among the countries of the world that fully meet the UN's world goals.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214180757	Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214180800	I think it is a pity that we have not actually thought this into this financial law, just as we had not thought it into the previous government's 2025 plan. But let me ask you, in relation to the Paris Agreement and the commitments we have made, among other things. on climate finance, including: That we can't make backslides, so we can't go back in relation to our efforts in relation to CO2, are we living up to them in this Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214180825	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214180827	I believe that with the Finance Act we are taking a sensible line. We are living up to the international commitments we have entered into. We live up to having our CO2 reduced with the investments that are made with the PRS agreement where more renewable energy is invested. With the government base we have proposed that instead of focusing on Danish CO 2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20161214180904	Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen as the last.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214180906	Thank you. I heard the Minister of Finance say during the debate that he wanted more people to take this debate on withdrawal more seriously. I think that's pretty arrogant. You can look at all the unskilled and see that all the people who started working when they were 17 years old are the people who haven't had a fine and good education ^ like a part of those who are in here, have been working hard for a lot of years and are worn out, and they take this debate particularly seriously, for many of them ask: How much longer do I have to work in, even though I am actually worn out? For how long can I keep my early retirement? Where do I stand in the future? To be honest, can the Minister of Finance not understand that these people are being made very nervous when they do not want to give them honest answers?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214180957	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214180958	I give them completely honest answers. But I think we've been talking a little bit past each other, for sir. Leif Lahn Jensen mentioned the question of the worn out. So I would like to give a very clear answer: I do not think that worn-out people should work anymore. I believe that worn-out people need help to get to do something else. Because neither the government nor myself have any desire that worn-out should be longer in the labour market. If they are worn out and cannot continue with the work they are in, then they must be offered an opportunity to get to do something else. That is why it is not a question of what Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen tried to make it happen, namely that now we will force the worn out to do something more. It is a question of whether, if we want there to be better advice in the welfare benefits that we would like to have in Denmark; that we should be able to afford that people who go to work are allowed to keep some more of what they earn to themselves; that we should be able to afford to have a sustainable economy, even in the future; indeed, it requires that we take some initiatives, otherwise there is no money for the many wishes that the parties have.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214181057	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214181058	I'm not trying to do anything. I am just trying to get an honest answer from the Minister for Finance, and I am glad that the Minister for Finance will give an honest answer. That is why I am just asking a very, very simple question: will the government touch the reward now, or will they not?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214181114	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214181115	We will return with a renewed plan in 2017 on how to make the Danish economy relate to the wishes we have. We will look at different opportunities to increase the supply of work, and we can do so, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214181138	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions, and we go to the second round, where Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten, has asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214181156	Thank you. I am sorry that I am delaying dinner in this way, but when I take the floor, it is because the Minister used a good deal of his speech to deal with Enhedslisten's latest proposal for a working week of 30 hours, and thank you for that and also for the praise for presenting the report. However, there were also some misunderstandings in the Minister's speech on the issue. First of all, as the Minister said, Enhedslisten's proposal does not mean that our prosperity must stop here, that is, that prosperity must not grow. What we are proposing is that some of the growing wealth and some of the growing consumption be exchanged for more leisure time in the future. Thank you, too, for the family chronicle. The Minister, however, forgot one thing in this historical review, namely that the Minister's grandfather in Sinding probably had a working week of about 60 hours when he was young. Since then, working hours have fallen sharply, while wages have increased and the prosperity of society has increased equally significantly. So the Minister is trying to get Enhedslisten's proposal to appear as a break with historical developments, but it is not actually; on the contrary, it is the Minister's proposal that is a break with the developments we know from the last 100 years, and that would in fact be like the Minister's grandfather, the Minister's father and the Minister themselves having continued working 60 hours a week. The improvement in productivity means that we are fewer in producing the same quantity of goods and services, and we can use that benefit either to raise wages or to increase leisure time or, as has been the case over the past 100 years, to combine both. After all, the division between the two is something that is decided by collective bargaining, so there is no compulsion, as the Minister said. After all, working time has been reduced over and over again, the last time it was in the 1980s. Has this meant that the salary has stood still? Has this meant that prosperity has stood still? No. There has been room for both, and right now there is even room for even more, because the wage ratio is historically low. In other words, the proportion of the values created which is attributed to employees is low. There is plenty of room to increase it, either for more free time or for more in the payroll. And that is what we are proposing, in other words, that we use some of the increase in productivity and exchange it for leisure time. How to make the composition is, of course, something that is decided in the collective bargaining process. The Minister believes that very few people will exchange consumption for leisure time. I'm not sure that's true. In any case, I do not believe that the studies I have seen show this. On the contrary, it is about half of the Danish families for children, for example. feel that they find it difficult to reconcile family and professional life. It also sounds as if prosperity should always just rise and rise. But there is probably a difference between the wealth that lifted ordinary employees' families out of the third backyard and into a house with light and air, and then the prosperity that is when we look forward. At any rate, I believe that the longer we get there, the higher the prosperity, the more leisure time will weigh heavily, and the more one would rather have an hour more with the kids, with friends, than a little more in the payroll. Then the minister says that state revenue is falling with this proposal. It's wrong again. State revenue will also increase with Enhedslisten's proposal, but slightly slower than they would otherwise have increased. The Minister forgets to mention that there are also a number of opposing positive effects that will improve the public balance, first and foremost, that when we reduce working hours, we will make room for more people in the labour market, and that will save us a lot of spending on unemployment benefits and cash benefits. In addition, we have a number of other proposals on how to increase the Community's revenue, which I cannot go into now. There's a capacity squeeze. Yeah, we still have a lot of people out there who are pushing their noses against the window. I am, in fact, pleased that there will be capacity pressure, because this means that some of those who are at the end of the line for a job will have the opportunity to enter and employees will have the power to demand a little more in the wage negotiations. But thank you again to the Minister for taking the discussion. Let's get started, let's see how and how fast it can go. I do not believe that it should only be the Prime Minister's grandfather and the Minister's father who see that their working hours have fallen, but I think we should also do so in our generation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214181706	Thank you. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214181711	One way to give families more room for manoeuvre, more freedom of leisure, more self-determination over their own lives is actually to ease the tax. If you lighten the tax at the bottom, we know that some people will work more because it pays better. We know that there are about as many people who will work less and that they will use the increased scope to work less. In this way, we are creating a situation in which it is not for us politicians to decide how much work needs to be done, that we should have a 30-hour week, but where we give freedom for citizens to choose for themselves. You can choose to work more because you get more out of it, or you can choose to use it, to keep more of your own money, to take more time off. That is the liberal way to go. This is the path I prefer and which I actually think most people prefer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214181818	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214181820	May I once again deny the myth that we should think that a 30-hour working week is something that must be adopted by politicians. Of course it isn't. Our working time is something that is determined by collective bargaining between the social partners. This is also how we propose that this should be done in exactly the way it has been done before. Does that mean you can't work anymore? It doesn't. It just means you get an overtime payment for the hours you work more. There are also people who work more than 37 hours a week today. It's normal working time we're talking about, sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214181856	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214181858	But then it's not politics. What Enhedslisten is talking about is not politics. What we are dealing with in here is legislation. If the social partners agree to reduce working hours to 30 hours, they must do so. I don't want to interfere with that, it's not something we have to discuss in here. We can discuss such things as how high the treasure should be. If you put the tax down to the bottom, as I have just mentioned, someone wants to work more, and there are about as many people who want to work less. That's the kind of thing we can do. Then you have to suggest it if you want people to have more opportunities to work less. But why is Parliament's time wasted and a debate on finance legislation to come up with proposals on which we have no influence?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214181946	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214181947	Now it wasn't me who picked up this question from the platform. That was the good finance minister. This is not a proposal that is targeted, sir. Joachim B. Olsen or my other good colleagues in here. It is a discussion paper for ordinary Danes, for those who are going to decide what kind of demands we have to make in the next collective bargaining. Remember that Enhedslisten is a party that sits in here, but that we are also a party that has thousands of members who are active at all levels of the trade union movement, and this is a discussion paper addressed to them. Everything isn't about sir. Joachim B. Olsen. Let me just make a small comment on the fact that people should start working less. That is an exciting new information, because if it is true what Mr. Joachim B. Olsen says that there are just as many people who start to work less than they start to work more, but then all the positive dynamic effects that come out of putting the tax down are gone.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214182038	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, with a question for Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214182043	Thank you, and thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted to reply to the Minister's speech. I just have a few questions. Can the rapporteur confirm yes, it has little to do with the way in which the debate is running here that it is not Enhedslisten who has taken the initiative today that this should be a major debate during the financial law negotiations? That's what I think... the microphone's been turned off. Why? Is it just because it's me?
ParlaMint-DK_20161214182109	Yeah, that's funny. But I think it's turned on again. I see it's glowing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214182121	Thank you, yes, now it lights up again, that's good. The second question is: can the rapporteur also confirm that, if the Minister is right in his pessimistic predictions that employees do not want this at all, there is no problem? Because if the employees do not want it, it will not be raised as a contractual requirement, and then the Minister can sleep quite calmly. And if there's a large majority...
ParlaMint-DK_20161214182150	It is now turning off because the speaking time has been exceeded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214182150-2	I can completely confirm both, sir. Finn Sørensen's important objections. First of all, we didn't bring this up here. This is a debate we're going out on streets and streets with ordinary Danes. It is also politics. Fortunately, all politics are not going on in here, it would be extremely boring. As far as the second is concerned, that is quite right as well. If employees do not want to raise this demand, it will not be raised. When we have spent some time counting on it, it is because there has been a public debate in which a number of debaters, particularly from the right, have tried to draw a picture that this is completely unrealistic and impossible. That is why we have entered the debate. Because we believe this is an important debate for the sake of families with children, for the sake of the cohesion of society and, above all, for the sake of climate. Because while more consumption, no matter how we turn it, is straining our climate, more free time doesn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214182249	Thank you. That was the end of the rapporteur's reply. I have to postpone the sitting until 8:00. 18.30, where we proceed with the votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214183021	The sitting is resumed. Before we start voting, I have to read out a review: Minister for Health (Ellen Trane Nørby): Bill no. L 99 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on access to justice and compensation in the health sector. The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20161214183053	To section 6. Ministry of Foreign Affairs. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2 of the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 430 of the SF rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3-5 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 7. Ministry of Finance. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 6-22 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 8. Ministry of Business and Growth. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 23-25, 458, 27-35 and 37-40 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To Article 9. Department of Taxation. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 41 and 42 of the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 43 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour of 52 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 18 (EL, RV and SF), abstentions 33 (S and ALT). The proposal is adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 431 of the SF rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 44-49 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. For section 11. Ministry of Justice. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Fifty of the Minister of Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 51 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour, 104 votes (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) [on the other hand, 0 abstentions] were cast. The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 52 of the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour of 86 (S, DF, V, LA, KF, SF and 2 (RV) (by mistake)), against 15 (ALT and EL), abstentions 3 (RV). The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 53 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour 84 (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF) voted against 20 (EL, ALT and RV), [no votes for or against 0.] The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 54 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour, 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF) voted against 15 (EL and ALT), [no votes for or against 0]. The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 55 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. To paragraph 12. Department of Defense. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 56-79 by the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. To section 14. Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 81-98, 459-463, 99, 100, 464 and 102-115 by the Minister of Finance? The proposals have been adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 432 of the SF as rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 116-122 by the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. For section 15. Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 123-155 by the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 433 of the SF rejected. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 156-161 by the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. To Article 16. Ministry of Health and the Elderly. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 162-195 by the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. To paragraph 17. Ministry of Employment. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 196-200 by the Minister of Finance? The proposals have been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 434 by Mr SF. The vote is over. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 32 (S and RV). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 201-212 and 465 by the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 435 of the SF. The vote is over. In favour of 23 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 53 abstentions (DF, V, LA and KF), 27 abstentions (S). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 466 and 215-253 by the Minister of Finance? The proposals have been adopted. To Article 19. Ministry of Education and Research. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 254-277, 467-469 and 280-283 by the Minister of Finance? The proposals have been adopted. To Article 20. Ministry of Children, Education and Gender Equality. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 284-331 by the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. To Article 21. Ministry of Culture. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 332-343 by the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. To paragraph 22. Church Department. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 344 and 345 of the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. To section 24. Ministry of Environment and Food. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 346 by the Minister for Finance? The proposal is adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 436 of the SF rejected. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 347-360 by the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 437 of the SF, and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 53 abstentions (DF, V, LA and KF), 26 abstentions (S). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 361-363 by the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. To section 28. Ministry of Transport and Building. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 364-374 by the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 438 of the SF rejected. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 375-381 by the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. To section 29. The Ministry of Energy, Supply and Climate. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 382-385, 470 and 386-393 by the Minister of Finance? The proposals have been adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 439 of the SF rejected. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 394-397, 471 and 398-400 by the Minister of Finance? The proposals have been adopted. To section 35. General reserves. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 440 of the SF rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 401-410, 472 and 411-414 by the Minister of Finance? The proposals have been adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 441 of the SF rejected. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 415 and 416 by the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 442 by S and SF. The vote is over. In favour 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF) voted against 52 (DF, V, LA and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 417 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour, 79 (S, DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 20 (EL, ALT and RV), abstained 4 (SF). The proposal is adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 443 of the SF rejected. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 418-421 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 444 by Mr S. The vote is over. In favour 50 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF) voted against 52 (DF, V, LA and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 445 by Mr S. The vote is over. in writing. - 45 (S, EL, ALT and SF) voted against 52 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstained from voting 5 (RV). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 446 by Mr S. The vote is over. In favour 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF) voted against 52 (DF, V, LA and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The proposal has been rejected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 447 and 448 of the SF as rejected. They are rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 449 by Mr RV. The vote is over. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 53 abstentions (DF, V, LA and KF), 26 abstentions (S). The proposal has been rejected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 450 and 451 of the SF rejected. They are rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 452 by SF. Has everyone voted? The vote is over. In favour 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF) voted against 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The proposal has been rejected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 453 of the SF as rejected. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 422 and 423 by the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. Interest. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 473, 424 and 474-485 by the Minister of Finance? The proposals have been adopted. To Article 38. Taxes and charges. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 454 by Mr S. The vote is over. In favour 41 (S, EL and RV), against 62 votes (DF, V, LA, ALT, SF and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 486 by the Minister for Finance? The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 455 by S and SF. The vote is over. In favour 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF) voted against 52 (DF, V, LA and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 487-496 by the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 456 by SF. The vote is over. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 52 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 27 (S). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 497 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour of 52 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 27 (S). The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 498-500 by the Minister of Finance? The proposals have been adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 457 of the SF rejected. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 501-504 by the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. To Article 40. Reloans etc. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 505, 506, 429 and 507-513 by the Minister of Finance? The proposals have been adopted. To Paragraph 41. Stock movements, etc. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 514-519 by the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. To Paragraph 42. Net government debt write-offs. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 520-522 by the Minister for Finance? The proposals have been adopted. That concludes the vote on the amendments. I propose that the examination of the draft budget be stopped and that the draft law be referred back to the Committee on Finance. Are there any objections to this proposal? It's agreed. The proceedings shall then be suspended.
ParlaMint-DK_20161214184916	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 15 December 2016, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
