ParlaMint-DK_20161205100008	The meeting is open. The Committee on Legal Affairs has delivered: Report and recommendation on the Parliamentary Ombudsman's report for the year 2015. B 27). The motion for a resolution will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20161205100033	The debate is open, and it is first Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205100053	It is the case with elephants that sometimes you have to cut them into slices in order to consume them. That is what the Prime Minister said when he launched negotiations on the 2025 plan. And I can't tell the new government that I think you're gonna be okay if you just ate an elephant. You can't actually see that. On the contrary, it is as if some have had an appetite for a little more. Now you've started swallowing camels instead. The reform of public schools is no longer a disaster. Now they say yes to Europol, and if there are problems in the country's nursing home, yes, it is not the responsibility of the Minister for the Elderly. You have a stand until you get a virtue, as a witty soul noticed. Elephants, camels... I guess the past year has been quite a circus show. I guess it's not too much to say that the Prime Minister has been driven around in the mess, and it's not over yet. Because with the new government base we have come to the magicians. Less money for welfare • abracadabra • more money for welfare. And let me say it a little rough for unsweetened: it is and will be a hokus pocus policy, because it is now too far from what the government says and to the real world. When the Rigshospitalet's chief obstetrician says stop, too much is spared. When relatives can show clothes that are soaked in their old parents' urine, then dignity is gone. And when there are parts of Denmark where you can no longer get a doctor close to where you live, the differences have become too great. In recent times, I have been in many places in our welfare community. I've been to Nanna and her colleagues at Hvidovre Hospital. I have been driving an ambulance with Steffen and Peter in Aarhus, visiting Helga and Svend Erik at the care centre Rosengården in Vejle. I've been in home care with Nazle and the other SOSU helpers in Glostrup, and what's left? First of all, professionalism is high. The employees make a great and convincing effort. I have the greatest respect for them. Secondly, they run fast, and in some places too fast. The pace is high. Much efficiency has been achieved and the tasks have increased. Thirdly, we now have a welfare society that is so well regulated that it is hardly understood. There are rules for virtually everything, even in areas where it almost makes no sense. And it's as if we in here think that the more we legislate, the better it gets out there. Yes, yes, the framework is tight, the requirements are great, and expectations are just as high. More tasks must also be done in the future without a lot of new money. It must be man before the system, never the opposite, and on that basis we must all be able to do better tomorrow than yesterday. It won't be easy. That is why we want to see the public sector reformed. We want more leadership, but we also want more trust in our public employees. When the social and health workers I visited out in Glostrup have to register both when they go to the individual elderly, but also register when they go out from there, it is a requirement that is more based on distrust of our employees than on trust in our employees. We need to change that. That is why an innovation minister in the new government sounded good, but when you read the government basis, the minister should rather be called "privatisation minister', and rightly so, because that is what the government is proposing. I am not standing here on the platform promising gold and green forests, but I promise to take better care of the welfare society. And I would like to ask the government to be honest with the Danes, because you know very well that a growth of 0.3 per cent. is not growth. When we get more and when we get older in Denmark, we need more money just to ensure the level of prosperity and welfare that we have today. And public growth, which just covers the fact that there are more elderly people, is already historically low. Nevertheless, the new government will go even lower: 0.6, 0.5, 0.4, 0.3, no lower? Having three civil party leaders in Marienborg for less than a week has cost the welfare society 40 billion. kr. Why? In order to provide even greater tax relief. Public growth of 0.3%. is not public growth. It's savings. It's almost like you can hear it from up there: big, bigger, biggest. One can see how the talk has gone between the three gentlemen, and the pattern is beginning to be clear: when the Prime Minister is in trouble, and this happens relatively often, then the numbers are pumped up. How much greater should the supply of work be? the Prime Minister asked Mr. Anders Samuelsen, is it 40,000, 50,000, 60,000, no higher? And how much is the prosperity to be lifted? That's 65 billion. kr., we should say 75 billion. kr. or 80 billion. kr.? Should we have a government base on even more pages, and should we not take it further to reduce the top tax? Dear government, we are a Parliament. We are not an auction house where Denmark's future is for sale for the highest bidder. So we're not playing... Think of a number. It is good that we have a government basis, but a government must also be able to govern. So far, most important decisions have been postponed. With the exception of few agreements, Danish policy has been blocked. We may have had more of a status quo minister than a prime minister. In the Social Democratic Party we also want a wealthier, freer and safer Denmark, but it must be for the benefit of all of us. The Prime Minister completely forgot to mention the ceiling on cash benefits that risks putting hundreds of families of children on the streets. We won't forget you. Of course, we want a broad cooperation here in the Folketing. We propose that Danish employees should have better opportunities to improve their skills. We are proposing a growth package to create more private jobs, an end-reform, so that we can develop our welfare society, a tight immigration policy, better integration, a change in Danish EU policy with a stronger focus on labour rights, the fight against Panama paper and tax fraud and better security of external borders. We would like to see stricter penalties for serious crimes and we would like to be behind an honest review of the reforms that have already been adopted. Bedlinen work tests should not be offered to our citizens. I know the government loves the big numbers, but we almost always forget the most important thing. Seventy thousand are as many skilled as we are going to lack, and nearly seven thousand are as many unskilled as there will be no jobs. Seventy thousand are many people, and what do the companies that are going to lack employees if they do not have access to qualified labour? Yeah, it's actually pretty simple. They are going to reject orders in Denmark. They are going to hire foreigners or they are moving companies out of the country. And that creates insecurity. At the same time, when we know that the government will cut down on the green transition, drop the Togfonden DK and make even more labour supply reforms, yes, Danish employees and Danish companies will pay the price. We want a Denmark that is linked and we want to give Danish employees better opportunities to cope with the competition against the rest of the world. The government prefers to raise the retirement age, but already there are many Danish employees who are so worn out that they can no longer work. Since we had an opening debate last time it's not long since the luggage porters at Kastrup airport have carried more than 11,000 suitcases, which means only 2 months. To conclude, therefore, I have three messages: firstly, do not raise the retirement age and do not lower the top tax. It is not fair, and it makes Denmark neither richer nor stronger. Secondly, we need an end-reform of the public sector. Let us now start focusing on results instead of processes. Let us have confidence in our employees and in our society... a society that the new government will pull to the right. However, one way is taken is wrong, and we Social Democrats will of course not be involved in that. Thirdly, we are always ready for constructive negotiations with the government. Block politics will never be the answer to Denmark's challenges. But the goal is important. If the government maintains welfare savings and a higher retirement age in order to provide tax relief, you will have to take care of it on your own. Will you work together on concrete solutions, for example? in order to ensure continued Danish membership of Europol, we are ready, just as we are ready to negotiate major and more fundamental reforms. But the purpose must be right. If we want a stronger welfare society, if we want to create more private jobs, and if we want to ensure more security for Danish employees, we are in it. Then I would like to read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left and the SF: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that a 0.3% increase in public spending. is unrealistic in relation to demographic development and therefore insufficient if we are to maintain the current level of service in our day care institutions, primary schools, hospitals, elderly care etc. The Danish Parliament notes that Denmark needs a different direction. We must safeguard and strengthen our unique social model and not gradually undermine it. We must develop our common welfare, strengthen the green transition, reduce inequality, ensure better help for the worn out, create a more inclusive labour market, create more jobs and internships, and strengthen skills and education. • V 18).
ParlaMint-DK_20161205101134	This proposal for adoption is part of the further discussions. Many people have signed up for a brief comment. First, it's sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205101143	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party, we believe it should be easier to expel criminal foreigners. In the Danish People's Party we believe that a person suspected of terrorism or the like should not feel an obligation to give Danish citizenship, even if he is stateless. With these examples, I think Mrs Mette Frederiksen knows what I am thinking of: the international conventions which, in the way they work, limit Denmark's ability to do what we think is right and reasonable. And I have noted that there is a movement in several parties towards the fact that these international conventions are simply going too far, in other words in relation to our ability to do what we think is right and reasonable. That is why I would like to ask Mrs Mette Frederiksen to tell us what the position of the Social Democratic Party really is right now. Because I have noted that the Social Democratic Party has been out here yesterday with a statement that something needs to be done about this. And in the Danish People's Party we think it is time for us to move from talk to action. So what I am interested in is how we bring this matter to concrete action, so that we can do something about it as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205101252	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205101254	Well, I would say that when I myself enjoyed the privilege of being the Minister of Justice in this country, I saw that some of the conventions ratified by Denmark are working directly against the interests of our country. And it goes without saying that if a person is a danger to Denmark's safety, he should of course not be in Denmark. It should also be said that when you come to Denmark as a foreigner, you are happy to be here; you comply with our rules, you respect the way we have arranged our society. That is why I think we have the same starting point: if you commit crime of a certain nature and are a foreigner, you have to leave Denmark. And it is therefore worrying that some of the international rules of the game that apply hamper our ability, as a Parliament and as a nation, to really protect ourselves. That is also why our Foreign Affairs rapporteur yesterday, I think, entered into a debate on, among other things. The operation of the European Court of Human Rights. And we are prepared to discuss both the stateless Convention and some of the protections provided by the other conventions. So I agree with what is being said.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205101400	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205101402	There are a lot of Danes who can remember a name like Levakovic and a case like his; he has a long criminal record behind him, without there being any possibility that the Danish society as the case stands right now, it seems that it can throw the person out. And what we in the Danish People's Party have tried to look at is that if it is such that it is not possible to get the other countries to understand that the framework of the conventions needs to be changed, then it may well be necessary for Denmark to do something itself. Of course, it is often the Convention on Human Rights that we are discussing, but there are also other conventions, for example. The stateless Convention, which I mentioned, in relation to the fact that a majority in this Parliament feels it necessary to give citizenship to people who are under suspicion of terrorism. In any case, we think this is very cross-border.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205101450	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205101452	It is not only cross-border, it is also wrong. For what is Parliament's most important task is to protect our own citizens. So we agree on that. And it is not just the convention that is a problem. In other words, recently we had a current situation in which the right to family life meant that we in Denmark could not stand on the child's side in the matter of child bride. There it suddenly became the adult man's right to be with his family, which made us unable to separate them at the asylum centre. That's grotesque. Of course, you should not be able to marry a minor and live with her when you are a refugee in Denmark. So we have problems in the area of stateless persons, but we actually have them in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights and the right to family life, which is sometimes interpreted in a completely different direction from what should be the need for protection. Having said that, it is therefore important that Denmark does not suddenly begin to go alone. And that is why I believe that we must go another way, and that is to seek an alliance, not least with the other European countries, which must face the same dilemmas and with the same scruples that are gradually coming into Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205101552	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205101554	Thank you very much for that and thank you to Mrs Mette Frederiksen, who very rightly says that the government loves large numbers. We cannot accuse the Social Democratic Party of being completely ridiculous with figures, since last year we made a financial bill without figures in and this year we did nothing. It may be that it is a definite phobia against numbers, I don't know, but we may later be able to reveal where some of our numbers come from. But then let me ask you something that is not directly related to numbers. It is tempting to ask about the ambitions for growth in Denmark etc., but it will involve some figures. The figures I am presenting now are only years, but it is about balance: when do the Socialists think there should be a balance in public finances? Should it be by 2020 or by 2025?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205101646	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205101647	So, until recently, the Folketing was probably largely agreed that the balancing point should be called 2020. Then the then Left Government chose to move the balancing point to 2025. After all, we never got started negotiating a 2025 plan because the government couldn't really get anywhere. Now I understand that a new 2025 plan is being presented, and I wonder if the balance point in it has also moved to 2025? That must then be the starting point for the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205101713	Here you go, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205101715	Thank you. It was nice to get smarter. I understood from Mrs Mette Frederiksen last week that the retirement age could be raised for those who could work. I understand Mrs Mette Frederiksen now that we should not do that. That's fine. But if this balancing point is postponed to 2025, what will social democracy do with the longer-term challenges if you do not want to touch this retirement age? We made an agreement between our parties a few years ago, which was about how long you'd have to retire. Fortunately, we are now living longer, but that also means that we are longer on a pension. You're not gonna do anything about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205101757	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205101758	In other words, two things: firstly, one can avoid basing one's economic policy on having to give a lot of tax cuts. That's why you want to raise your retirement age. All that talk about the fact that it should be particularly financially responsible, sounds hollow when you know that what you want is to give money for tax cuts, and that is why the worn-out Dane has to work longer. Let me therefore just make one thing clear: I do not want us to extend working time in Denmark. I haven't wanted that at any time. What I said outside the Chamber on Tuesday was that if there are some who would like and everything we can support at all by senior schemes, where you can stay longer, is fine, but making a forced later withdrawal will hit socially wrong, and it will of course hit harder in those professions and in those areas where the body cannot keep up. That is what is forgotten in the political debate. It sounds like we all have the same working life, and with all due respect to the flock sitting here: we can probably do it. But those who stand out there and clean; those who stand out there lifting up our elderly and our disabled; and those who lift up the suitcases at Kastrup Airport cannot continue to work any longer, and so we say no to later withdrawal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205101909	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205101912	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Mette Frederiksen for her speech. I heard, among other things. some critical voices about the outsourcing and privatisation vibes that are pervading this government base that we are discussing today. After all, the Socialists were in charge of the sale of our energy company, DONG, and the then Finance Minister, Bjarne Corydon, caused his current employer, McKinsey, to make some recommendations on how to outsource welfare tasks more than is already done. And it is in spite of some of the really bad experiences we have at home, where we have seen companies go bankrupt, leaving a large bill and not least insecurity, and despite the really bad experiences, especially in the school sector in Sweden, where it has resulted in billions of dollars being drawn out for profit, while, for example, there have been many more pupils for each teacher. So my simple question is, when the Socialists look down on this long list of government bases, what do you think? Is that a good way to go, or are we going the other way?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205102029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205102030	I think that what is already the problem with the government we have been given is that there is a very ideologically based desire to privatise. There, of course, I have an appeal to make instead of starting with the citizens of this country. We are comfortable with the fact that there is free choice in the area of the elderly in the country's municipalities, but we should then have a stronger municipal elderly offer. It scrambles a little out there; we can do better than that. But if some people then want another food supplier and want to use their self-determination on it, that is fine. But what we saw last time we had a bourgeois government was forced tendering rounds in the municipalities, and it was really an ideologically driven desire for the privatisation of the public sector. We are turning our backs on that. That is why, on the basis of the citizens, it must of course be possible to choose between different offers, but we will always be opposed to favouritism of private hospitals, as the Prime Minister has done in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205102130	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205102131	Thank you. I do not think anyone can disagree with doing what works. Nor do I think anyone can disagree with the fact that it would be very nice if we actually had a care for the elderly, where we set out some visions of a greater degree of freedom for older citizens; that we might actually have free choice, without that meaning dragging in private suppliers, who have to make profits, or that we do not treat our older fellow citizens properly just by ourselves in public care care. I think we all agree on that. What I just want to know is, where have we seen it work? Where is it that this thing with increased outsourcing or privatisation works really well? Or more specifically, was DONG a success?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205102223	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205102223-2	Now DONG is not sold, point 1. Paragraph 2: I believe that what is important in this discussion is that there is a focus on the citizen. In fact, in Denmark we have a long tradition of having self-serving institutions, including in the field of welfare. We have self-serving nurseries and kindergartens; we have afterschools; we have a strong free school tradition in Denmark; and we have actually also had a tradition in the area of the elderly, where you have been able to have self-serving, voluntary and in individual places private opportunities and initiatives. We should never take that opportunity away from people. But what is the problem with this government is that they will not continue to cut back on the public welfare community. And when, with one hand, you cut down and keep making savings and, with the other hand, you promote privatisation and outsourcing, it will be the citizens, I believe, who will be the victims in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205102317	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205102319	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for his speech, which I think contained some very good ideas about reform of the public sector, ideas about replacing over-regulation with more confidence, with greater freedom and with better governance. That's where I think we can reach each other. The rapporteur then made a little bit of fun over some figures and the emergence of some figures that are in the government base in terms of ambitions for growth and ambition for employment in Denmark. Both are addressed very specifically and very ambitiously in the government base, and the very good thing about figures is that they are very concrete. That is why my question to Mrs Mette Frederiksen is: what is the Social Democrats' ambition and much like in figures for prosperity and employment in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205102409	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205102412	It is not true that the government's basis tells how the government intends to achieve that GDP and the growth in the Danish economy. That's not true. What we are told is that there will be further labour supply reforms. That is why it could be before we proceed with the discussion that the rapporteur wanted to inform the Danes and the Danish Parliament about what some labour supply reforms are going to be considered. Because what I see so far is the desire to raise the pensionable age. And we have said very clearly on the part of the Social Democratic Party that we do not add votes to the fact that the most worn-out Danish employees will have to work longer. I understand that the Danish People's Party says the same thing, which is why there is no majority. There was no majority in favour of the economic policy of the V government and there is no majority in favour of the economic policy of this government. But let us hear: who is it that has to work more specifically? That is not actually what the government says.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205102502	Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205102504	What is very clearly described in the government base is the government's overall ambition for an increase in prosperity and an increase in employment, namely an increase in prosperity of 80 billion. kr. and an increase in employment in a place between 55,000 and 60,000 people. I would just like to ask again, more specifically: do the Socialists share that ambition, or do the Socialists have a higher or a lower ambition for prosperity and employment in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205102528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205102529	Of course, we share the ambition that we should be richer, but we will have to discuss, 1) how we get there, and 2) at the expense of what. If you want a higher level of prosperity at the expense of worn-out Danish employees, the answer is no. If you want a higher level of prosperity at the expense of our children in the day care institutions, our sick in the hospitals and our elderly in the care of the elderly, the answer is no. Now the Prime Minister is sitting down here talking over me and yelling, and you know he'll be on the platform later. It is not true that you are concrete, because you are simply reporting that there will be more labour supply reforms. That is why the question is: who is going to work more? Who might have to pay for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205102616	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205102620	Thank you, and thank you for a very powerful speech that I thought was exciting. Now I was sitting right away and I found out what I wanted to ask, and then there was a conversation with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who made me almost want to ask something else. However, I am going back to my starting point, which is about what Mrs Mette Frederiksen mentioned, namely debureaucratisation. I am of the opinion that there is a new government, that we must help them to do well and not just sit around and watch them do the wrong thing. So can Mette Frederiksen not lift the veil a little bit about how to approach the work on this reform, which we are very many agreed to now?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205102658	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205102659	I think it is so incredibly good to announce now that we must help the new government to the extent that we are called for negotiations at all. The same applies to the alternative as to social democracy, in that we were not even invited to financial law negotiations, which in itself is a subtle size, so that we do not even have to make the effort to hear the parties of the Danish Parliament, whether we can make a broad financial law agreement. Well, that's the way you approach the work. I think we should think about and look for the broad agreements. With regard to the fingers-off reform, I believe that we really need to tackle it from a number of quarters. Something is about legislation, and there we just have to be honest in this House and say that we have regulated the public sector in a way where it is the freedom of employees that has now been trampled underfoot. So something is about legislation, and much is about management out at the individual care center, at the individual school. Something is then about the municipal and regional decision-making processes and concrete requirements for the individual employee. Something is about resources, and if we are going to have to make a finger-reform of the public sector, we really have to put in several different places from here. Most importantly, however, it is about whether we dare to trust that our social and health workers can make the best efforts for our elderly. We have that confidence, and that is what is needed to permeate the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205102822	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205102823	Now we can hope that the new government will invite more negotiations, since it is a little stronger than the previous one, which did not even want to see the parties involved in the financial law negotiations. We can look forward to that. In fact, I agree with Mrs Mette Frederiksen, but it is also about the culture we create in the public sector, so that we may also be quick in here sometimes to beat people in the head if something happens and that politicians will have the quick action and demand control because they are afraid because they have lost their way of dealing with them, that is to say, the solutions. So does Mrs Mette Frederiksen also agree that it is also a question of really having the courage to take political leadership on us and to show that confidence in our public servants?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205102905	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205102906	I very much agree with that and, in fact, perhaps we should begin to understand that political leadership is also not interfering in everything. Let me give you a concrete example. I visited an institution for children placed on Orø. When they find in the institution that one of the children has had lice, and that happens from time to time, they must call a general practitioner to buy the lice cure that all of us other parents can buy as an over-the-counter medicine. The time they need to spend on it and everyone here knows how difficult it can be to get to a general practitioner they could have spent working with children. And it is basically because we do not trust that they can assess when children should have a lice cure. It is a concrete example, but an example that serves to show that we have regulated too much, and it happens too often here in the Folketing. So I very much agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205102952	Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205102954	I would like to begin by agreeing with the call for the government to seek broad cooperation in the Folketing, not least on economic policy, because it is the one that creates the basis for us to be able to do many of the things that I fully share Mrs Mette Frederiksen's desire for us to do, not least for those who have the most difficulty in Danish society. It is basically about the fact that, I think, we all agree that we want a society in which there is equal opportunities for all. And you will not get that when you introduce a ceiling on cash benefits and an integration allowance, thereby reducing the conditions of some of those who already have the most difficulty. Nor do we get it when, in a financial law, you close up with yourself and your closest parties and then agree to lower registration fees and, in return, drop production school fees for some of the young people in our education system who have the most difficulty. That is why I would just like to ask Mrs Mette Frederiksen: one of the restrictions on equal opportunities that is being introduced into the education system right now is this ceiling on education, which means that a young person who has taken a bachelor's degree as a teacher and finds out that he wants to be a primary school teacher can no longer do so. Is this something that helps to give equal opportunities or should you not see if you could find the 300 million? kr., which is missing from the benefit agreement, in a different way than by making dead ends in the education system?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205103119	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205103120	I think we're gonna have to dig a lot deeper, 'cause why are we in need of this money? We do, because some of us had to finance an allowance agreement because an allowance reform was made that has pushed thousands of Danish employees into nothing. We didn't want that to continue. And, of course, we could see that the unemployment benefit reform that a number of parties were behind was not going to work in the real world, with great consequences and consequences. That is why we were the ones who put us together to get an allowance agreement so that we could keep our hands on those who risked falling out of the benefit system. It was an important purpose, it is an important agreement, and I am entirely in favour of it and wish that we could have a majority to make that change at an earlier stage. We couldn't. Then we'd have to find funding, and that's the art of the possible. This has been the case in almost all the political agreements I have been involved in making, most recently the agreement on PSOs, where different sources of funding are of course found. And because the purpose was so noble and so right, we thought, and we still think so, that we can, of course, defend a change in education, which means that an adult who has received tax funding for an entire education should not also be able to receive tax funding for another whole education. You can still change along the way. But it is also, it has to be said, very, very large in a society that you can get paid two full courses. There, too, we have to think about whether this is the right thing to do. So I stand entirely at the goal of the decision we have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205103247	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205103248	I am, in effect, pleased with the part of the answer that is about being willing to find funding. We are talking about 300 million. kr., and I can hear from Mrs Mette Frederiksen that it is not necessarily the content of the education ceiling that has been the attraction, but the need to find 300 million. kr. I would venture to say that if we did what I, together with the President of the FTF, Mr Bente Sorgenfrey, have called for, namely to take a period of reflection, we might find another 300 million. kr. In any case, I would just like to call for a little reflection on whether the wisest way to finance the cost of unemployment benefits for people who are unemployed is to prevent people who want to retrain to something else in order to increase their chances of employment from doing so. I do not understand why it should be social democratic policy, that it is better to go to university to become a French teacher in high school than to change and take primary school teacher training to teach German or French in primary school. Is one finer than the other? I do not really think so, and so I would just like to call on you to take a period of reflection, to listen to some of those from whom I am sure you are also listening, and who are in the process of finding out how they are going to fail this summer at the exam because they want to be able to take another bachelor's degree. I actually thought that in the education system in general it was the task to get people to go as far as they could.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205103408	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205103410	I think there's been enough time to think. I think we wasted valuable months and years watching people fall out of the benefit system, and we're not doing it again. Therefore, there was a main task for us, and it was to ensure that Danish employees did not fall out of the benefit system. If you have to make such an agreement, it costs and requires some funding, and there we have found some money in the field of education, which, as I see it, no matter how you turn it around, is entirely up to the mark. This isn't about some education that's finer than others. I would also like to make it clear that when we are going into a forward-looking debate on priorities in the field of education, the Socialist starting point is quite simple: we want to give priority to those who have the shortest education. This means that it is adults who have never received an education, and it is vocational training that needs a boost before others.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205103502	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205103504	Thank you. I'm gonna go back a little bit, 'cause last week I had something a little crazy. I got a number of inquiries on Facebook about this bill on ceiling for degree programmes. Someone wrote: Right now I'm going on a bachelor's degree, I've got a few months left, but now you're going to set this ceiling on education, and do I have to drop out of my education if I want to take another one, because I actually have another dream? I had to sit as a politician and recommend that they drop out of their education, because otherwise they would have run for it, so it was no longer possible to change track in life, it was no longer possible for them to take the education that they dreamed of. With this bill, a nurse can't become a doctor, a social worker can't become a psychologist, and a psychologist can't become a social worker. Basically, I believe that this bill brings about a fight with free and equal access to education. Does Mrs Mette Frederiksen agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205103601	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205103602	No, I am not, and I would just like, before we go all the way to the ideological lians, to say that we have to stick to what the proposal is about. It is about the fact that if you have received a long education in Denmark and completed it, you should not be able to say from one day to the next that you would rather have another long education, which also has to be paid by society. If, on the other hand, you have not been able to use your education if it has become obsolete, you can actually get a new education. So we have to stick to the fact that as a society we have chosen to tax finance our education system, and what we are saying now is that if you have received an education that is even long, you cannot just start a whole new and also long education the next day. So before we do it any worse than it is, we need to hold on to the perspective and the proportions, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205103649	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205103650	It is not just the long courses, it is also the medium ones. After all, it is nurses who find out that they want to use their skills to become a doctor, it is educators who find out that it wasn't just their shelf, so perhaps they would rather be social workers and use their skills there. It's not just the longest education. They are bachelors who are not allowed to take a new bachelor's degree if they become smarter. There are people out there right now who drop out of their degree programmes... it was in Berlingske yesterday... and they've been guided to drop out. But before that, someone has been guided to complete their education because it has been thought that this is not something politicians can do anyway. Could it not at least make sense to make a phase-in period? ■ that is what we have a tradition for in the field of education so that those who did not know this would come and who have finished their education in good faith just got a second chance? Couldn't you just shoot it one year so you didn't break people's dreams? We are proposing a specific amendment to that effect. Could the Social Democratic Party not see itself in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205103744	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205103745	But could it not also be that we could have a slightly deeper discussion with each other about this? If we now live in a society in which we choose to finance a free and equal education system, could we not be sure that this is the right education before we embark on education? If you find out after a while that it isn't for you anyway, you'll get changed quickly. Honestly: While we see the pictures from the elderly area as we do, and while the leading obstetrician at the Rigshospitalet says stop, because he can no longer defend what is going on, we spend time in the Parliament hall discussing whether one should be allowed to complete a full education and to become a nurse is therefore also a long education • so to change subjects and take a completely different education! I can easily stand up for this, and I also ask quite calmly SF if it was not very good that we had an agreement in the area of unemployment benefits, when it had not been possible in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205103839	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205103844	Thank you. Although my party chairman has taken a different place in the Chamber, you should not be cheated on the traditional issues of the Danes' housing economy, which are of course very close to our hearts in the Conservative People's Party. During the last election campaign, the President of the Social Democratic Party said that the property value tax would be frozen until 2025, and back in September, when there might have been a bit of electoral uproar again, that promise was repeated. Nevertheless, I know that several of the support parties of the Prime Minister's candidate are opposed to this view. I would like to hear now, when we do not have such a choice around the corner, whether the President of the Social Democratic Party will repeat the promise to work for the property value tax to be frozen until 2025.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205103929	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205103931	What we have said about property taxes has nothing to do with whether there is choice or not. Therefore, I can quickly repeat what we have already said before, namely that of course there must be security around the housing owners' economy. That is why my call will also be 'I don't know what the government's plans are; you are not the fastest other than the savannah that we are going to negotiate the property tax because we have now got a new property valuation system in place. It has it, it may be said, unfortunately, that if it is allowed to work, property taxes will rise qua higher ratings, and that is why we need agreement no. Secondly, I hope that a broad agreement on housing taxation will be made so that those who have bought a house or are going to buy a house or a townhouse have the certainty of what their housing economy is like. And our starting point is exactly the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205104023	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205104025	Will the President of the Social Democratic Party confirm that in the negotiations that will take place in the new year, efforts will be made to freeze the property value tax until 2025? Then I would also like to hear: as it is in the government base, it is planned to freeze the ground debt until 2021. The last two years have been successful and have saved the Danish homeowners 1.3 billion. kr. Will the Social Democrats also support this, knowing that there are many supporting parties in their backs who disagree with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205104053	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205104054	In fact, I think the interesting thing is how we get a broad agreement in this area, because now we only got there, you can say, so to be in the initial infight before there was a new government. And there, in fact, I could see some disagreements on many sides of the House, among others. Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, which want to distort housing taxation even more than is the case today, thus reducing the progression compared to the largest houses. We said no to that; the Danish People's Party also said no to that. Then, of course, there are some parties that have quite different views on housing taxation. I do not see them immediately before me if they can, it is fine to be part of such a broad agreement on housing taxation that it will include all the parties of the Folketing. There is too far between the parties. But our starting point is that there must be security for the property owners; we have been saying this all along. But there must also be reasonableness in this, and therefore the reduction in the progression of houses of very high value that the Left Government proposed, and where K and LA would draw even more crookedly, is not our starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205104202	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205104207	Thank you. I was very encouraged by what the President of the Socialist Party, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, said on the issue of the convention, because it was, in the past, like having to penetrate such a concrete wall in relation to the discussion on conventions, among others. Social democracy. I would like to hear what is more concrete in this. Mrs Mette Frederiksen speaks of her time as Minister of Justice, where there have been some cases, and where there was therefore a barrier so that we could not do enough because of Danish ties and membership of these conventions. What does the Social Democrats intend to do about it? 'Cause that's the interesting part. One is what you say; another is what you do. One example: the Stateless Convention is mentioned. The Folketing has sometimes given citizenship to people who are suspected of terrorism and where PET has warned against it. Does this mean, with the attitudes of the Social Democratic Party today, that in future the Social Democratic Party will vote against granting citizenship to persons who the PET warns against?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205104311	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205104312	Well, it is precisely the stateless convention and the knowledge I have as a former Minister of Justice who makes me have a different view of conventions today than I had in the past. Because it is problematic, it is grotesque that we here in the Folketing should grant a person citizenship when our own intelligence service warns us not to do so. Then we have reached not only too far, but beyond the limit of what is reasonable. For our task must be to protect our own society and our own citizens. The second example, as I mentioned before, was that we suddenly have to accept a child bride in Denmark, something that is so fervently against me, i.e. that underage girls must enter into marriages with adult men. We cannot prevent this because the man has the right to a family life. That's where the convention protects the wrong party in that family. Where the convention should protect the child from adult abuse, it protects the man. These are precisely the two examples that make it necessary for us to have a much more critical approach to the Convention issue. The question then is how we do it. There, as I said before to the President of the Danish People's Party, I would urge that we in Denmark enter into an alliance with countries that think as we do, so that there should be international rules of play, but that this should be done in a fair way and that we try to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205104434	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205104435	Again, I am very encouraged by the fact that the Social Democrats have adopted these positions now, which they have unfortunately not had in the past, but that is what it is. But now there are some new views on this, and that's good. But the question is: what exactly does the Social Democratic Party intend to do when it comes to the next vote in the Folketing, which is about whether we should give citizenship to a person to whom PET warns against granting citizenship? Will the Social Democrats say 'yes', as they have done in the past, to give citizenship, or will they now say 'no' and not give citizenship to people who are being warned against by PET?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205104515	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205104516	Well, it's hard, 'cause I have to be honest and say that I want to vote no most. And, as I said before, I am deeply concerned that we are granting citizenship to people who pose a risk to Denmark's security. On the other hand, I am also concerned, I would like to say, about a world society in which everyone begins to go alone on the issue of the convention, because it is in fact some of the only rules of the game that we have to hold on to, among other things. human rights and respect for the individual. However, what we should perhaps do together now I am just thinking a little new here on the platform..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20161205104610	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205104611	Thank you for the floor and thank you to Mrs Mette Frederiksen for the speech and for the comments so far. All of us who are gathered here today in the Parliamentary Chamber and, incidentally, also the journalists who are sitting and reporting have something in common. We are historically unpopular, and if we were back in primary school and had to be chosen for roundball according to our profession, we would all be left as those who would be elected last. It is not that we are in the Catholic Church's confessional chair, and I can neither give Mrs Mette Frederiksen indulgence nor get it myself, but I have a prayer. I think there are a lot of Danes who can get a little tired of the way we sometimes both relate to plans and respond to other people's good proposals. Mrs Mette Frederiksen is an excellent rhetorician, and if you failed in and heard the speech that was being made now, you would assume that the government was a terrible type and the Social Democracy was the opposite. However, it was difficult to find any concrete proposals, so could the President of the Social Democratic Party not help us perhaps to make a bid for a financial bill and actually promise, just for the next parliamentary term, to make the proposals that one wants to implement in writing instead of spending only time telling what one does not want to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205104733	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205104734	I was about to say, Lord, my Lord, but I don't know if I can say that from the platform. By the way, I had to say from the Prime Minister that it would be very nice if you could buy leave in this Chamber. We must then try to find out whether we can do this with or without the involvement of the Catholic Church, preferably without, if you ask me. This is a strange size. Now we have a new government, we are moving fast, but we had a government that chose not to call for financial law negotiations. Usually, however, you have something like inviting a cup of coffee and seeing if you can make a deal. You didn't want to, because it was easy and elephant jumped over the elephants, apparently. And then we have to listen to the fact that it is strange that we do not have a budget bill when the government, the then government, chose to say that it wanted to present a 2025 plan. The former and, incidentally, excellent and good Finance Minister said: the Finance Act negotiations are just part of the 2025 negotiations. Then, as the great opposition party, we say: okay, now, that is the way the government chooses to organise its work, and these are the rules of the game that we are playing by.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205104845	Thank you. In fact, you can't call on the higher powers. Mette Frederiksen there is no need for this either). Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205104850	To the satisfaction of the President, I can then inform you that no one has claimed any power at all from this side of the House. I understand that they sit and want to get deeper into things and also have political influence, but if you read the polls, you will see that Mrs Mette Frederiksen would enjoy the greatest parliamentary support if there were elections tomorrow. And that is why there may be a Dane or two who have the expectation that the Social Democratic Party will use that time to make a plan or two that you can read, and not just find that the Social Democratic Party was, I think, 42 minutes after the press conference started... was able to stand on different television channels and criticise the government basis. However, if you clicked on the Social Democratic website, you could not see an estimate of what the Social Democratic Party wanted for the future and how they would spend the money. Are you really so busy calling people for consultation that you don't have time to just put a little bit in writing?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205104938	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205104939	Now that we are in the more enlightening activity, it could be very good if the questioner had also taken the view that we have even done it on paper, if that is the media one wants to use. We have also had a press conference on the content. So there's a plan, it's just different from the government's. That is why we should probably use the time we have in the Chamber to discuss the political differences. That is, of course, the challenge of the 2025 plan, which is certainly being repeated, namely that one has a completely indomitable belief that if one gives some top tax relief, there will also be growth in a society. I do not share that analysis and I continue to appeal to see what is needed by companies. We know that they are going to lack labour, and that is where we have to take action.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205105027	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205105029	Thank you. Work faster for the same money! This has been a message to our health professionals for years. in the maternity wards, where there is now so much running that the head of the maternity ward at the Rigshospitalet has actually quit his job because, as Mrs Mette Frederiksen also mentioned, he does not believe that what is going on is proper, neither to the staff, the birthers nor to the children who are being born. I think that is deeply serious, and I believe and know that many others think so too. I know that social democracy, among other things. has called the Minister of Health in consultation on this matter, and I think that is a good thing. But the problem is not new. The main explanation is that hospitals have been instructed for years to run 2%. stronger every year. And as a professor was out saying, you can't ask women to give birth to 2%. faster, because a birth now takes the time a birth takes. I think it is a good thing that the Social Democrats want to debureaucratize. Hands off, you call it. Good! We want to be a part of that. But I would like to know whether the Social Democratic Party will help tackle the root of the nettle and remove this annual 2-percent efficiency requirement, because there are things that cannot be made more effective, among other things. births.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205105208	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205105209	Without having to misunderstand me, I can say that exactly in the maternity wards we really do need to have our fingers on the babies rather than taking your fingers away. What you need when you are in childbirth is that there is a midwife, that you can be safe, and that you can be allowed, especially if you are first-born, to actually find the new role, make breastfeeding work, know your parent role and be safe. That is why I think the whole parliament should listen to the statements that come from the Rigshospitalet. I myself had the opportunity to speak to the person concerned on Friday, and I have to say that it makes a real, very big impression. It makes a really big impression. After all, there is nothing good to say about the fact that there is such a hurry on our births, because our newborns suffer, our children's families suffer, and the bill that arises from it will grow even greater than the savings that can then be taken home. When it comes to health at all, I would like to say two things. Firstly, we are forced to think constantly about how we can do things better and wiser. And when I'm around the public sector, and I've been part of the health service, there are actually some things we can do smarter and better. We don't want to give up on that. And like the other, I don't come here and promise a lot more money, so we have to keep following that trail and making things smarter. But I can also see that in some places there is too much austerity and that is why I think it is so problematic that we have a government that strikes out with its arms and says that now there is growth in the public economy when everyone knows that it is actually not right.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205105345	Thank you. Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205105346	I am therefore pleased that the Social Democratic Party recognises the huge problem that exists in our maternity departments. The Enhedslisten at the time fought hard with the Social Democracy in the second chair during the Finance Law negotiations to get more money into this area. So, as I said, I am glad that we now recognise that what is going on is not in order. But what I am asking is whether you want to take part in removing the requirement that every year there should be two per cent running. Stronger. And I ask that because we have been hearing, over and over again and for years, both radiographs, nurses, SOSUs and doctors say: patients suffer from the fact that we must constantly run stronger, because we cannot do so. There are limits to how fast you can run. In other words, I am not just asking whether social democracy will help to give the regions the freedom to cut back elsewhere. I ask you whether you want to remove the 2-percent efficiency requirement, and I do so because I have no doubt that this is necessary if we are to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205105448	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205105452	I would say that, as part of the work we are doing now, and as we call our fingers away from the reform, we are also looking at how we can manage and manage the public sector at all, and there we will also be dealing with whether we can do another economic governance that is wiser. This does not mean that we are shy away from having an eye on how money is spent in the public sector; we have to do so. Nor does it mean that we are going to promise a lot more resources, because we do not have them. So we must continue to develop the public sector. However, there are some consequences of what I am experiencing out there, and I think that is important to get into the political discussion as well. When savings are made, as is now the case after Mr. Anders Samuelsen has joined the government, even more saving is the consequence that the basis, namely what they have to do out there, for example. in hospitals taking temperature or blood tests, they will get done, but what is equally important, namely an arm around the shoulder for the elderly medical patient, who is afraid of what is going to happen, or for the first-born or something else, disappears. I do not think that is the welfare society we should have.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205105557	Thank you. And that was the last of a brief remark. Time's up. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. And I have to say that if you make an effort to keep to the speaking time, there are several colleagues who can have brief comments to make to the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205105612	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister, who is here somewhere, for the opening statement the other day. It was Thursday that we received the statement. It is exciting with this enlarged government, which is why it is quite appropriate that the Prime Minister should go to the Assembly Hall and give us a statement. I must say straight away that we in the Danish People's Party are naturally looking forward to working with the enlarged government as well. The thing was, the situation had gone pretty bad. It can be said that from October, when we had the opening of the Folketing and the opening statement, until now the political situation had become somewhat difficult, and in particular the issue of the top tax made it very difficult to find solutions. I would like to acknowledge that at some point things were split up so that things could be negotiated separately from the discussion about the top tax. It made it possible for us to get on with things. This also meant that an agreement was actually reached on the reorganization of energy taxes, namely the so-called PSO tax. That's good. A few weeks ago, there was also a great agreement on the Finance Act for 2017. It was also very good; there are many good things in it. But otherwise it has to be said that the great 2025 plan, the major plan of the whole of August, has been put back in the drawer for the time being. I have of course noted that the government has the view that at some point in the new year, in 2017, it will start taking things up out of the drawer. You talk a lot about this famous elephant, whether it's an elephant in the room, or it's that you have to devour an elephant, and if you're going to eat an elephant, it's right that it's good to cut it into smaller pieces, as the Prime Minister said. So we look forward to the pieces being brought to the table, and then we'll see which pieces we'll eat. But it will be an interesting exercise, and we certainly look forward to taking things more together and sharing them over a single unit. I was a little tempted when I considered what I should do today to read out my October rapporteur's speech, because there I think I gave an excellent rapporteur's speech, and that was only a few months ago. The fact is that whether it is a Left Government or a government consisting of the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, the Danish People's Party has the same policy and the same views, and that is the same thing we are fighting for. That is why it was tempting just to take up the October rapporteur's speech and read it again. But I can now refer to it because it can be found in the archives of the Folketing, and then you can get to know the speech there. If anyone else had forgotten, I would just like to summarise some of the main points, namely that Denmark is a great country to live in and that we are one of the happiest people in the world. It was reproduced only yesterday in the media. Our starting point is that if we are to stick to it in the future as well as for future generations, we need to find out how to make sure that as much of what we like here in Denmark lasts in a globalised world and in a world of great insecurity, and not how to change things as quickly as possible. We must ensure that we have a safe and secure Denmark. And we have mostly still gone, but there are some danger signals, because we can see that there are shootings in the streets, and we do not want that. We can see that there are parallel societies where there are a lot of people who base their lives on values other than those we otherwise know from Danish society and which we like in Denmark. We do not want that in the Danish People's Party. We can see that there are older people who do not get the help they need. That's what they're gonna have. So there are many places where we say that we have a very good starting point, that we have a good country and a safe and secure country. But there are certainly also places where we can see that there is a risk that things are going and where we need to do something about it. If we look at the area of foreigners, it is important for us to have a foreign policy which is on the basis of the Danes. It is important that we have an immigration policy where we control immigration and where it is the Danes who decide how immigration to Denmark should take place and under what conditions. It also means, from our point of view, that we have border controls, so we have the opportunity to keep track of who comes into our country. Here is one thing that will soon be debated, because some officials down in Brussels have said for now that we must have border controls until February and that is already next year. We want a new asylum policy to be put in place to ensure that we can enforce this with how many people come to Denmark and under what conditions. We are pleased to note that there are some things in the government base that are about rethinking asylum policy, and we are very interested to hear more about that. What does that mean in practice? There have been various definitions of this in the public debate so far, but we would very much like to hear more about it. We have the discussion on conventions in which we have confronted other parties, both in financial terms and in other ways, with the wish that we do something about the bindings of conventions. This can be done in many ways, but the important thing for us is to create a situation where it is more so that the things that we think are right and reasonable here in Denmark and that the general public in Denmark actually thinks are right and fair can also be passed through. There are places where it lags today. We need to do something about that. I have already mentioned a few in the debate earlier today, among others. criminal foreigners, whom we cannot expel, stateless, as a majority here in the Folketing, we believe that we are bound by convention to grant citizenship, even if they are judged by PET to be a threat to the security of the empire. So these are places where we simply have to do something about things, and I think there are many Danes who think so, but who miss us going from talk to action. So, of course, we are interested in finding out how to take it into action. Another key point for us is to ensure the social balance. We are not pale to recognise that if you look at a V government in relation to the enlarged government, you can see that one of the things you are at least trying to do a lot of and where there has been a movement is probably in the direction of becoming more ambitious in some areas. And it's clear that being more ambitious in this context can well be about places where it hurts some and where it can hurt. There is no doubt that when you look at such things; when the government wants you to look at retirement age; when the government wants you to look at tax cuts, etc., there is a social balance to be observed, and there is no doubt that the Danish People's Party must ensure that there is the necessary balance in things. It is a question of us being a society based, on the one hand, on a high level of equality and equal opportunities, and, on the other hand, on economic opportunities which give us confidence in the future. It is also about the core welfare that must be in relation to our community, in other words the public sector, from education to health, where we are now very much discussing the field of birth as a concrete example in the hospital area. There are major problems in relation to the care of the elderly, as I mentioned earlier, and where we therefore believe that when we have an elderly minister, and we are really glad that we do, then of course an elderly minister also has a very great responsibility in ensuring that the municipalities that are not doing well are actually doing a good job. We also have some agreements on the Finance Act, which is about ensuring dignified conditions in our care for the elderly, and we do, of course, because we commit the municipalities to some things. The municipalities have gladly agreed to get the money from the state, but then there are also some constraints that go with it, some obligations that go with it, and this also means that an elderly minister must go out to the municipalities and say: "You must get things under control, and if you do not, we will come after you, because you must have it for the sake of the elderly. We would certainly like to argue this, under the umbrella, that we are trying to ensure happy employees, because happy employees in the public sector too are a major driving force, because there are also happy elderly, happy school children, I do not know, happy sick people in hospitals, but at least that people who enter hospitals feel that they are getting very good treatment, as they are, thankfully, often doing. I should just like to mention the police as an important part from our point of view in relation to the core welfare. In other words, we are increasing the penalties for illegal firearms with the financial agreement for next year, and that is a good thing, but elsewhere we also need to look at penalties, and then we need to ensure more officers so that the Danes know that there are officers close when the accident happens. It ensures security. In conclusion, I should like to make a proposal for adoption, because I look forward to good cooperation with the government, but also with other parties, to ensure the things I have mentioned. The proposal for adoption reads as follows: Proposal for adoption The Parliament takes note of the Prime Minister's statement on the new government's basis. The Folketing shares the ambition to make Denmark a stronger country with better conditions for growth, prosperity and welfare. The Danish Parliament notes that one of the ways to ensure growth and prosperity is that more Danes come into work and that core welfare is strengthened. The Folketing further considers that a tighter foreign policy and a more consistent legal policy will help to make Denmark more secure. The Folketing welcomes the government's statement that there is a need to look critically at the way international conventions have extended the scope of the original intention and looks forward to the government presenting a plan for its work. The Folketing stresses the importance of continuing to make decisions that ensure that we leave a stronger Denmark to the next generation. • V 19).
ParlaMint-DK_20161205110656	Thank you. The proposal for adoption is also part of the further discussions. The first rapporteur, with a brief comment, is Mr Seligman. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205110706	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl on behalf of the rapporteur. Without this going to become a zoo, I'd like to address one of the elephants Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl did not mention the elephant in space: it is quite obvious that there is a difference between what the current government is up to in terms of public growth and what the previous government did, which was actually a lot smaller. That's why I'm actually just gonna have to hear about sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl agrees with us in the Social Democratic Party that it is not enough to guarantee the core welfare that I understand the Danish People's Party too is concerned about, that is, that there must be a public growth of just 0.3 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205110756	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205110757	Well, we don't think that 0.3 percent. is sufficient to ensure the public welfare that we want. We have noted with pleasure that the three parties chose zero growth, zero growth and minus growth respectively, and that it has now been changed to plus growth. I had not just seen that calculation coming, but at least it is good; it is positive. Now we do not need to discuss whether there should be room for real growth in the public sector; now we need to discuss what is justified, that is to say what it should be on • of course secure in relation to those who have to pay for the common welfare, but also responsible in relation to those who should benefit from the fact that we have a public sector that can deliver the goods. And there it is our assessment that they 0.3 per cent. in real growth is not enough, i.e. it needs to be higher up.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205110845	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205110846	Well, I guess that too, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl agrees with me that by comparison 0.3 per cent. a part less than 0,5%;; to be precise, it is 9 billion. kr. less by 2020, which will be for public growth if necessary. And since I understand that the proposal for adoption, which is agreed on in the blue block, says that core welfare must be strengthened, I would just like to ask you, Mr President. Kristian Thulesen Dahl to confirm that the proposal for adoption does not mean that the Danish People's Party is satisfied with a public growth of only 0.3 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205110926	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205110927	Yes, I can confirm and I can confirm, and I can confirm, because it is quite true that 0.5 is a higher figure than 0.3. Well, that's pretty good, so that's where we can start. The next point is that our assessment is that real growth, such as that proposed here, is very, very modest, given that the governing parties themselves want to increase, for example. The cost of defense is also inland consumption, of course, depending on how you spend the money. But there may be many areas where you might ask: should there be more police officers? We need to do something in the area of the elderly, health and so on.? And then 0.3% is. Not much; then it doesn't go far. Then you have to have a strengthened core welfare, it is our assessment that the figure is going to be higher. How much higher it is then, we must also look at in relation to the concrete negotiations that are coming. We are certainly looking forward to seeing the concrete proposals and then negotiating them with the parties of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205111021	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205111024	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl on behalf of the rapporteur. We were talking about sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl just dared to repeat his speech from October, and it was close, but not yet. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl asks: How can the good things last? So, how can we maintain these things and make the improvements that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also proposes in his rapporteur's speech. We are a little concerned about this in the proposal for adoption, which our parties together with two other parties are behind, and this is because one of the ways of ensuring growth and prosperity is for more Danes to get to work and thereby also to strengthen core welfare. Is it also the view of the Danish People's Party that this ambition to get more Danes into work and strengthen the core welfare is thus something one achieves by ensuring that it pays better to work, ensuring that more people enter the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205111124	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205111125	Yes, it is clearly an ambition for us that more Danes are going to work and especially the Danes who do not really think it is worthwhile in areas where you do not get so much for it. Over the past few years, we have seen that a great many of these positions for unskilled people who are otherwise in Danish society are taken by Eastern Europeans who come to Denmark to work, and that makes it even harder to believe that, for example, they have to work. cash benefit recipients or others who are not in the labour force today come to work. And it is clear that one possibility is, on the one hand, that they must be available if they can and, on the other hand, that we must ensure that they are defended and so on, and, on the other hand, it is also to see whether there is any possibility of giving them an extra advantage after tax when they are in the labour market. That is why we have also said that to the extent that we find money for tax reliefs it is not the case that we want to maintain as high a tax as possible, then you can find money for tax relief, it is fine that we want the charge to be on those people who do not make as much money. We also believe that giving them a possible tax relief will also be something that will be translated into consumption, because there is also a greater likelihood that people who earn very little money will come out and spend the money and hopefully get some benefit from it and can also see the value of being in work instead of, for example, spending money. to be on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205111246	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205111248	Thank you. I am very much in agreement with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party on this, and precisely the challenge that the Danish People's Party raises from time to time with many foreigners in Denmark, who, as the slightly harsher rhetoric says, take Danish jobs. But as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also expresses it here and explains it, so it is all about some jobs that are simply not attractive enough. I am actually pleased that the Danish People's Party will help to ease the tax on work for the lowest incomes. I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that this is about the fact that, with the support of the Danish People's Party in the future, the Danish Parliament and the government are ready to make some of these decisions, not only for the next generation, but also for the next elections, which will make it possible to ease the tax on quite low, quite ordinary incomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205111343	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205111345	Well, we are waiting for the proposals that may come and then we are looking at them and then we have to find out how to ensure an adequate social balance and so on. In things. Maybe I'd like to arrest one thing in it, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen says here, and this is what happens if there are jobs that are not attractive enough. Because if you can work and there is work to be done, I actually think you have a moral obligation to take that job. And there aren't any jobs that aren't good enough. I know that those jobs, for example. is in the high season, as I say, the Eastern Europeans are typically taken off, and they should be taken off by the available Danes who can. And if you don't think those jobs are enough, in quotation marks, fine, then you have to think again. It may also be a way to subsequently get another job that is more attractive. After all, this is the positive development that I think we should have in relation to our labour market. It would then make more Danes get into jobs and perhaps fewer East Europeans, and that would strengthen public finances, and that would strengthen the self-esteem of the unemployed Danes who then actually get to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205111451	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205111454	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for the speech. I do not think anyone is in any doubt that the Danish People's Party is a party that not only goes to the polls but also fights for better welfare. It is especially in the area of the elderly that we hear the Danish People's Party talk again and again about better conditions for our older fellow citizens. I fully agree that this is what is needed. Some of the stories we see on TV are really scary. I do not think it is worthy that people who have worked a long life and paid their taxes to the community should sit for hours with a wet diaper and wait. It's not worthy. It's not the right concern. And they don't deserve it. I believe that the Danish People's Party is very much in agreement with us in the Enhedslisten. We can also see it in the hospitals, we've seen it in the maternity wards. There are plenty of examples. I just want to hear what the Danish People's Party thinks about the current level of welfare, that is, what we have today. Is that good enough, or should it be improved?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205111602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205111603	I think we certainly have areas where it needs to be improved. I fully agree with what has been said about the elderly. Thank God there are of course many places where things work and where there are skilled employees who make the elderly happy, giving an extra hand to the sick in hospitals in such a way that it provokes a smile on the lips of the elderly. Of course, we should appreciate and thank you for that. We should also bear that in mind. But there are places where it lags, and those things need to be fixed. When we base our policy on the elderly, we are talking about dignity in order to link up concepts of what it means to provide dignified care for the elderly. The fact that the municipalities are obliged to define what worthy care for the elderly is with them, so that you can measure it, look at it, discuss it with the municipality, is for us to see something that gives older organisations tools that enable you to come after the municipalities that are not doing well enough. So there are certainly places where it needs to be done better than today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205111704	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205111706	Thank you. Fortunately, that is not a surprising answer. I also very, very much agree. Then comes the next interesting thing, and that's how we do it. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl himself spoke in his otherwise excellent speech, perhaps not to eat elephants, but to eat pieces of elephants and to see what it was for someone who was served to the Danish People's Party for the negotiations. I can imagine that you are not quite allowed to pick the pieces you think are delicious, because there are probably also some that you have to eat in exchange for getting your hands on the delicious ones. This is usually the case even when the Danish People's Party goes to negotiations. That is why my simple question is this: should public growth at least increase in line with demographic developments or more, so that we can get improvements? Never mind the 0.3 per cent, but the 0.6 per cent, which is an absolute minimum, just to maintain the current level, is that what we can expect as a demand from the Danish People's Party, or what is one willing to eat of elephant pieces?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205111810	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205111811	Our ambition is that the public sector should be able to keep up. Absolutely. And it is quite right that when demographic changes, as you so well call them, change in the composition of the population, we must constantly look at what is then needed in order for the public sector to be able to keep up with them. There is, of course, a big difference between an elderly citizen who sits in a nursing home and has a lot, very difficult to do the basics himself and therefore needs care and care for virtually everything, and then an older citizen who, although he is up in years, is fit for fight, and who travels and can go out and do things and visit friends and play bridge and stuff. There's a big, big difference. We want a public sector that can keep up with the change that is happening, and it is for us to see a necessity so that there is real growth in the public sector that is somewhat higher than what the current government is operating with. We ourselves have previously operated with a figure as high as 0.8%, as Mrs Pernille Skipper knows very well, of course, when we have had to assess what is needed in the years to come. So we're on a rather higher number than what the government is operating on. That is quite clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205111920	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205111924	The Danish People's Party had a nice visit last week. It was Nigel Farage who was visiting. After all, he is an active advocate of what he calls Dexit, that is to say Danish withdrawal from the European Union. What I understood on that occasion was that the Danish People's Party also considered advocating it, because it was very concerned with the issue, which Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has also been for several questions hours under what conditions Britain is allowed to leave the EU. That is why I just have to ask a specific question: is it true that the view of the Danish People's Party is that, under certain conditions, one would prefer a Denmark outside the European Union, like that chosen by Britain?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205112010	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205112011	The Danish People's Party has not proposed a Danish opt-out of the EU • No, we have not. The Danish People's Party has proposed that it should work actively to ensure that Britain, which has decided to withdraw from the EU, has a sensible agreement. And a sensible agreement is based on the fact that Britain and we and other EU countries have a very, very high level of free trade between each other, but without forcing Britain to accept free immigration. This is precisely the crucial difference between the position that the European Union has taken towards Britain and the position that we think we should take, namely whether we should ask the British to accept free immigration as a condition for wanting to make a free trade agreement with them or not. We have then said that if the British get a sensible agreement, what we are going to fight for them, it could be said that in a referendum the Danes will have the opportunity to be asked whether you think such an agreement is attractive to Denmark as well. That's the scenario we've been thinking. What we are talking about now is that we are helping out to help and we think that Denmark should get a sensible agreement for the British. We do not think there is a basis for trying in any way to punish the British, as there has otherwise been a tendency in certain EU circles, because we think it would be quite, quite wrong for Denmark to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205112129	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205112131	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl always wants to talk about Britain, but what I really asked was Denmark and how the Danish People's Party would stand in such a referendum. And that is interesting, because the last time we had a referendum in Denmark, a year ago, one has to say that the Danish People's Party was very clear. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl said that if we cannot remain a full member of Europol, we would recommend, despite what has happened with Schengen, that in a referendum we abolish the reservation of law. I think that some voters might feel today that they would have bought the cat a little in the bag if they had listened to the Danish People's Party at that time, because they have subsequently run from the point of view. Now we're both from Jutland, and the thing about buying the cat in the bag, that you pay for something you don't really get, gets kind of a mess. I myself attended our European party in Poland the other day, and I believe that the Danish People's Party has ordered something that has not been received. But I fell on this ball pen, on which it says in Polish: No anguish, Report pays. I'm gonna give that to mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, because I think it is important not to buy the cat in the bag when it comes to the European Union. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205112235	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205112237	Well, have a nice trip to sir. Morten Østergaard, when Mr. Morten Østergaard comes around Europe and talks to people. I think that, with regard to Europol, we should see if there is an agreement. We don't know yet. I have not been informed whether an agreement will be reached. But then we'll have to assess that deal. Of course, we stand by the fact that if a sensible agreement cannot be reached, there may be a new referendum for the Danes, and then it is the Danes who decide what they will vote. This means that the Danes may have been deceived or something similar, in relation to having a referendum where you make your own decision, I find it very difficult to see. What a party recommends the Danes to vote in a referendum is what it is, but it is the Danes themselves who decide what they want. What we then recommend to them to vote, they can listen to or not. I hope, of course, that they will listen to this because we are making an effort and what we recommend we ourselves think is quite wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205112336	Thank you. Sir. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205112340	Thank you. When you listen to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, one definitely gets the impression that a warm heart beats for our welfare etc., and all respect for it. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also points to a number of things that should be better and different in the current situation. And here in the Chamber we know that since 2001 the Danish People's Party has had, I would not say veto, but at least a big word to have said in relation to financial appropriations and finance laws etc. If sir... Kristian Thulesen Dahl had to think the situation through, so that we might be able to take a look at the future, it might be interesting to hear what has gone wrong. What has gone wrong, what will the Danish People's Party do differently? In other words, since 2001, when, apart from a short half-red period, one has been in power or the last word. What should have been done differently? Perhaps we could expect to hear something about what the future holds in that area. Because there must be a great deal that has gone wrong now that we have so much to criticise as we actually have in relation to the bad examples that are there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205112442	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205112443	Now, I think the time is only possible to answer within a minute or something, because it is a whole day's debate worthy of discussing how you think things should have been different when you look back in time. I would therefore like to mention two areas which I think have had a great deal of influence: firstly, we have had to fight for, for example, year by year. to have a tighter policy on immigration. And for us it has been up to us to get the necessary policy implemented. So it's come to bits like this; it's this elephant that we've had to bite into smaller pieces than we've liked. For it is clear that this has had a huge effect, including in relation to public expenditure. In other words, when we talk about two-digit billions each year in expenditure, that is something that really matters, including for the welfare we can provide to the Danes. The second point is, of course, a recognition of the fact that we voted differently from the time when the enlargement of the European Union to include these ten Central and Eastern European countries from 2002 simply went too fast. And, of course, there was a situation in which we ourselves could not control how immigration from, among other things. Eastern Europe has happened. And, of course, that has also had some consequences. I think that is certainly one of the things that, when you talk about the '00s', should have been approached differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205112604	Sir. Leif Mikkelsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205112606	I think, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl speaks out. Because it has been pointed out, and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl then had almost direct address to the elderly area that it was not good enough. There we have seen older billions; then should there have been two or three of them each time, or what has gone wrong? Because I still want to hold on to the fact that the Danish People's Party has had an important word to say. After all, we all remember the Finance Laws where Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has stood out in front of the glass door after having a big word to say. That is why there must be a failure there and one must take responsibility for ensuring that it did not get better than it did. I'm just trying to address the fact that it's not always the others' fault. That is what I would like to see a concession in relation to and an answer to. Perhaps something should have been done differently or what? It is just the way we can expect in the future, or whether we continue with the mistakes, so that in a few years' time we can unfortunately point out that things did not go so well.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205112704	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205112705	Of course, everyone who helps make decisions has a responsibility for what happens. The Danish People's Party also has that, and we must take responsibility for it. Actually, I was just trying to come, too, sir. Leif Mikkelsen in a meeting by saying that when you look back and look at what could have been better done, you can hold a whole day's debate. It was to illustrate that there is probably much we could talk about could have been better done if you look back in time. We did the structural reform together at the time, and there are probably also a number of things about it that, with the knowledge we have now, could be nerded in a slightly different way. That's what living life is like. It is not the same as not taking responsibility for what will happen next year and then trying to do things better. There we can just see that, thank God, there are many places where things work, and there are many places where things work not as well as we would like them to. And there is politics, of course, that it is all about getting things done quickly about things that are not so good.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205112802	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205112805	Thank you. I heard that the rapporteur just mentioned training in one sentence in his rapporteur's speech. Some of the young people who have real difficulty finding their way into the education system are those who are not necessarily prepared to enter youth education. They may have met some bumps on the school road, or they may need a more workshop-marked education before they are ready to take an upper secondary education. I would like to hear from the rapporteur: how can it be that the Danish People's Party supports the deterioration of production schools and cuts in school fees?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205112842	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205112843	It is true that it is, of course, one of the elements of the Financial Law Agreement that was proposed and that has survived in a limited form, yet has survived in the final Financial Law Agreement. We firmly believe that the production schools also have a future. We also believe that they will be able to operate under the conditions laid down in the Financial Act. Because I fully agree that there are young people and also others who need to go a slightly different way than just being able to go through such traditional youth education. There must also be a place for them. Some of them will be helped at our production schools, and they will continue to be, including with the agreement that has been made here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205112929	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205112930	Well, then I'd like to hear about something. Does the rapporteur think that, for these young people who do not go through the education system in a strict way, it will promote their ability to move forward in the education system when cutting their school allowance or the opposite?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205112944	Here you go, sir. Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205112946	Now it is not the case that you do not get anything in the future, but for those over 18 years there will be a more SU-comparable level. And those under the age of 18 still get away a sum that other young people in youth education do not get. It is also, of course, because we recognise it. We think that's the way it should be. This is, of course, an area we will follow closely, also in the coming time, to see how this is going to work. But we are convinced that, even with these adjustments, the production schools will have a place in our education system for the benefit of, among others. young people who find it difficult to find a more straight way through the education system.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205113029	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205113034	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for making an appeal to our senior minister to take care of the municipalities. That was good to hear, and I very much agree with that. But I would also like to say that I think that a long life at Christiansborg has crept into the rapporteur's way of speaking and formulating itself. The whole talk of zero plus zero plus minus suddenly turned to 0.3 is very good, because it is such a firm turn we have heard a number of times from the rapporteur. I have been sitting there with very open ears listening to both the speech and the answers here to hear about where the elderly are when the rapporteur stands on the floor and worries about the growth of the public sector. For the reality behind all these figures and percentages being thrown up in the air is, of course, that with the current government there is significantly worse advice for care for the elderly in the future than just in relation to the Løkke government that was just a short time ago. And I wrote down when the rapporteur said quite specifically: if we are to do something about the elderly, for example, then, of course, we need a higher percentage in the growth figures. There is just one question left to be asked: should something be done in the area of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205113139	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205113140	It has to be said that Mrs Astrid Krag succeeded in becoming completely politician-like in the way she asked questions at the end. But peace be with it; we are also here in the Chamber, so it may well be so. Well, I really think that one should think of the fact that the last time we had minus growth in the municipalities, which, after all, have direct contact with our elderly, was actually under a social democratic government. Maybe I didn't think that was so amazing. In other words, money was also taken from the municipalities in order to grant tax relief. We can take up the list if Mrs Astrid Krag wishes. Now I have not, as it were, put up with it in my rapporteur's speech today, but it is clear that if the Social Democrats want to go to the wrong place, we can easily do so. I think that we should focus together on how, following the examples that have been suggested that care for the elderly is not working, we can put an end to this. This year, with the financial law agreement, we have already left this track in discussing the dignity of the elderly. What is dignified care, care, tenderness, as has been said? Well, what's it gonna take to ensure that? We really, really want to go into that and spend a lot of time on it, because we think that we are one of the most important things in our core welfare, so that we actually make sure that older people who can't take care of themselves and who have often contributed to building up this society after a long life aren't left behind in their last days.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205113301	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205113303	We're from the same region. Actually, I think we've had the same teacher in high-level music. I think you played the piano, I played the bass, and let's just have some honest talk as we know it from home. Well, there was no answer to what I asked here. Are we doing something in the area of the elderly, or are we not? It is thus your party that has the crucial mandates in relation not only to taking care of the elderly minister and saying that now she must scold the municipalities a little more, but also in relation to ensuring that there is the economic room for manoeuvre that ensures that there is no elderly who have to carry wet diapers because there is no time to take them to the bathroom. Or these stories with older people who sit in the toilet for half and full hours and can't be helped by that, it doesn't have much to do with dignity, even if you have called some money a dignified billion. But should more be done in the area of the elderly? We must have a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205113343	At least something needs to be done about the form of charge. You don't say "you" or "your." Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205113348	No, but there was a lot of politics talk, I think, because what exactly was it I was dealing with before? It was that we should have a more dignified care for the elderly, including those where it lags, and precisely define what dignity is in the individual municipality in relation to ensuring the individual elderly better conditions, more tenderness, more certainty that there will be care when it is needed. I have said from the platform here today that it is both a question of attitude and for me to see also a question of resources, i.e. whether there is money. Then I just allowed myself the little tricky comment, which I understand Mrs Astrid Krag does not like so much, namely that the last time we had minus growth in the municipalities, that is, when the money box got smaller in the municipalities, which of course have direct contact with the elderly, was under Mrs Astrid Krags's social democratic-led government. It was over in the tease, wasn't it? Now we must look forward and together ensure better conditions for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205113440	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205113444	Thank you. One of the things that I think really goes into the new government base is the desire to sell as much as possible out of what is our community, in other words privatise, just as we saw with DONG and Goldman Sachs. It's our airports, it might be DSB, it's TV 2 that's all you can get rid of. At the time with DONG, the Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party were thus united against the rest of the parties in here to try to prevent the scandal. At the same time, it is also planned that in future private companies will have to make more money in our welfare, i.e. withdraw profits from kindergartens, nursing homes, perhaps even schools • and that experiment has been tried before. It's been tried right over on the other side of the sound here with some terrible consequences to it. Millions of dollars went to tax havens, and scandals of scandals rolled in the care of the elderly. There were even elderly people who died of starvation in nursing homes because there were simply too uneducated and poor staff. So my question is really just: what is the position of the Danish People's Party on this, because the Danish People's Party has the crucial mandates? Will the Danish People's Party help to allow private welfare groups, as we have seen in Sweden, to enter and withdraw profits, i.e. tax dollars out of the operation of e.g. kindergarten, nursing homes, schools? Or is it here, the Danish People's Party... like we saw it with the DONG... will set foot with us and say that no, that's not the way we're going?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205113616	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205113617	We have a very little ideological approach to that. Well, we have a very practical approach, which is about what looks reasonable and what does not look reasonable. It is clear that when we talk about so-called soft areas, that is to say that it is about care and care in relation to people, we are very reluctant to believe in the idea that large companies can enter perhaps capital funds or similar funds and do business on it. Because what's happening? We have seen it in concrete terms, we have seen examples of it. What happens when a company like that goes bankrupt? Yes, it is that the public sector must hurry in and clean it all up, and that is actually to have some buffer standing ready. If so, for example. In the area of care for the elderly, it is perfectly obvious to take this as an example, because there have been municipalities experimenting with the bankruptcy of a company, so the municipality has to come in and help these elderly people from day one. Can one have such a device ready and at the same time have a private company to do the work? It's hard to believe it's a good idea. I think it has always been the case that in the municipalities, in other words those who have to do with asphalt on the roads and such things, there has never been any doubt that it is fine that it is private companies that come and do it, and then you buy the benefits from them. It just shows that you have to take this very, very practically and base it on what sounds right and what definitely sounds wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205113733	Sir. Dragsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205113735	But one thing that goes back, whether we talk welfare or service, is that there is money being spent, in other words taxpayers' money, which, instead of being spent on the task that needs to be done, is being carried out, for example. a fund or shareholders or just a company of ownership. That is, of course, the difference between having something in public and having it over in private. But I'm happy with the announcement that's coming from Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. I just need to understand, does that mean that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl can guarantee that Dansk Folkeparti will not add votes to e.g. mandatory targets for outsourcing covering welfare areas? Can we be sure that it will not be with the votes of the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205113815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205113816	Two things. One is that in the past there has actually been a desire to push up this level of outsourcing by the municipalities so high that we considered that nothing could be avoided but that one would have to cross over the area of the elderly in order to be able to pay for it. We said no to that. We don't think that was a good idea. And it was because we could see that these soft areas were going to be dealt with, i.e. vulnerable people, on which we did not think it was necessary to oblige the municipalities to do outsourcing. So that is our position in relation to it. The second is, to put that balance in the balance, that some people can make money on something. If you have a park and you ask a private gardener company to hold the park, well, then the private company can make money on that • we don't mind. Well, it doesn't necessarily have to be the municipality's own people who keep that park. It may well be a private company, and it is also in many places. It's just to say that it's not so obnoxious that some people can make money on that kind of thing. But what matters in the public sector is what matters. Does this have to do with people? I mean, is that something where you really have to be careful? Or is it more like these hardcore things, where you can say about a park, that if it's not taken care of tomorrow, we'll probably figure it out, and we'll solve it enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205113926	Then it is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, the Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205113931	I would really like to continue a little on the trail that is about finding out where the Danish People's Party is in relation to this new, blue-to-dark blue government we've got, and so I would like to ask you a few questions about the retirement age thing. Because it says in the government base that the government has a desire to set up the retirement age to find some money that will then be spent we have to assume when we read the government base for tax reliefs. In this context, I would like to know whether the Danish People's Party stands firm, even here after a government has been formed, that the Danish People's Party, like the Social Democratic Party, does not want to enter into an agreement with the government to raise the retirement age in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205114011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205114012	In other words, we have exactly the same attitude on the issue of retirement age as we had before it became an enlarged government. And I also think we had the opportunity to say that we have in fact messed with people's retirement age both in 2006 in the context of the great welfare agreement, and when it was adjusted in 2011, following the assessment that the Danes lived longer. We simply think we should be careful how often we come back. In other words, the Danes find it difficult today to relate at all to when their retirement age is. Then you shouldn't create a little calm and peace around this and then concentrate more on whether you can get seniors who are fit for fight and who actually can, motivated to take a turn on the labour market. I think that'll be fine if you can. But then it is a positive story for everyone, instead of forcing the retirement age to rise above what has already been agreed and thus forcing some people to remain in the labour market, which is actually worn out and should be allowed to resign.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205114116	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205114118	That is an answer that I am very pleased to hear, because it means that the government does not have a majority behind that part of its policy. And that is really one of the parts of the government base that I am most worried about. But it also means that if I have to pick up a little bit of what is the answer so far, then the Danish People's Party is not behind the central framework for what economic policy should be, namely growth in the public sector. The Danish People's Party is not behind the things that are being talked about in relation to the outcasts that the government is proposing, and the Danish People's Party is not behind the part that is about retirement age. The Danish People's Party is not behind the idea of deterioration in welfare. This is, of course, something that pleases me as a Socialist. But somehow I cannot help thinking about what the Danish People's Party is doing. After all, it is the Danish People's Party that is the reason why we have the government that is sitting right now. The chairman of the Danish People's Party stands on the platform and says that the Danish People's Party would like a social balance. I don't think this from blue to dark blue is an expression of a social balance. So perhaps the chairman of the Danish People's Party could answer what is really the whole idea that the Danish People's Party is behind the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205114223	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205114225	Well, I was actually just going to say that it was a nice slow-down, but now there was a supplementary question. Well, it's about the fact that the Danish People's Party can influence the policy being pursued, and we are in a much better situation with this government and us as a parliamentary basis than if we had another government that looked at SF, Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the Alternative. Now, after all, those parties will be on the platform here later, and when it has developed what those parties think, I think you can see the difference. And then I think you can understand why the Danish People's Party doesn't think we should have had a chance to say, in quotation marks, that side of the Assembly Hall to rule. I welcome the fact that, in certain areas since the parliamentary elections in the summer of 2015, social democracy has moved, and I would like to sign for that, and I also look forward to our working together on a large number of things. But I must also say that there are four parties around the Social Democratic Party that want something diametrically opposite in a number of crucial areas, and then you can judge for yourself whether you dare to leave the circle of parties to set the course for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205114330	Thank you. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205114333	Thank you. I would also like to follow up on some of the social balance issues. It was asked earlier that in these days we are in the process of examining a bill which means that the allowance for young people in the production schools will be reduced, and the Danish People's Party will vote on that. The production schools are some of those who really help young people who have social problems in their luggage to get through and perhaps get in and get more education and jobs later. So I would like to ask the rapporteur one more time: what is the reasonable thing to do about saving production school provision so significantly?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205114417	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205114418	I would just like to say first of all that one can get the impression, when one follows the debate, that now there is no longer any benefit for young people going to production school. That's not true. I mean, there's also a performance in the future. This is more comparable for those over 18 years to those in the SU system. For those under the age of 18, there is a benefit which is not for those who go on youth education in addition. And that is why I believe that the production schools also have a future in our education system and that they will continue to be able to help many of the young people who are in a slightly vulnerable situation, further in the system, perhaps with a one-year stay in a production school. I think they will continue to be able to do so, and I think it will work. But I would also like to promise here today that we will follow it very closely, because it is important for us that there are places in our education sector where you can help people who cannot be straightened out. And there is an element in it in the production schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205114516	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205114518	They are, and that is why we in the Radical Left are very concerned that these young people remain in the production schools and do not fall out where the alternative for them is to go on cash benefits. Then I'd like to ask Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl here: If that's how it's going to be... Kristian Thulesen Dahl says that the Danish People's Party will follow closely the fact that fewer young people are going to production school in the future, or that they fall out and go to cash benefits, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl then help change this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205114549	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205114550	Well, we're not gonna change anything and think that now it's just solved; now we're gonna put it aside; now we're not gonna look at it anymore. We know very well that this is, of course, an area in which we need to focus. Especially in the future, when you change some things, you have to keep an eye on what is going to happen, and it is clear that if it has an unintended effect, we are ready to take it up again. That goes without saying. I would just like to say that the starting point is not, of course, the abolition of benefits for young people in a production school. It is a question of correcting the level of it, and that is also why I think it will work. But of course there is a commitment that we will follow it closely in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205114633	Thank you. Then it's mr. Nase Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205114637	I would like to ask a few questions about foreign policy and Putin. What is the position of the Danish People's Party on Putin? Is he a future ally?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205114649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205114650	No, I think it's so much said to say that he's a future ally. The Russian President is doing a great deal of bad work, and he must certainly be criticized for all the things for which he is rightly criticized. There are many things that he must accept criticism of. What has been the discussion and is a relevant discussion is, of course, how best to influence what is happening in Russia and what is happening around Putin. It is clear that it is a discussion whether the sanctions we have imposed are conducive to the cause or whether they are really causing the Russians to pull more together around Putin. There is something that suggests that we are really working against the dialogue that we should otherwise be able to have with the Russians about how we should act in the world, so that we resolve many of the crises that exist. After all, it is necessary to discuss with Russia, for example. in relation to the situation in Syria. You have to have a dialogue with the Russians. That is where we stand by ourselves, our point of view, by the way we do it today. But it has nothing to do with criticising Putin and the Russians, of course, for what they should be criticised for.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205114758	Here you go, sir. Nase Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205114800	I am pleased to hear that, because I quoted the rapporteur's defence rapporteur, who at one point was out to say that Putin is a future ally and that the European Union poses a greater threat to Denmark than Putin. Is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl agrees with his own defense rapporteur on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205114821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205114822	Well, I think we should deal with what this is all about. Because when we talk about the crisis in Syria, the Russians are an ally in the fight against the Islamic State, and here they are an important party. Sir. Nas Khader wants to stress that they are doing a lot of other things that are then harmful to President Assad, but they are an ally on this issue. That's why it's about what we're talking about. That is also why I think that our defence rapporteur has been liberating in his statement in order to get this debate started, namely whether it is true that we are running as we are with the Russians; that we are trying to isolate them with sanctions. One might also ask: if that is what is meant in the Danish Parliament and if that is the way to deal with foreign policy, why not impose sanctions on China? There is a completely different premise, namely that dialogue, cooperation, business promotion and things and matters should encourage the Chinese to change direction in the areas in which we believe they should change direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205114920	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205114926	Thank you. TV 2 has just shown revelations about the conditions in nursing homes around the country: wet diapers, unreasonable waiting time on toilet visits, cancellation of baths, no possibility of fresh air. It is simply heartbreaking, heartbreaking rings in my opinion. The government has appointed an elderly minister, who seems to want to mark himself in the area of care for the elderly. However, the number of elderly people who need care is growing very rapidly if we are just to maintain a minimum of help in relation to the one they are receiving today. Then billions will have to be added. We need to add 1 billion. kr. Every year for many years to come. With low growth in welfare expenditure of 0.3%. There is a prospect of even less favourable conditions in the care of the elderly per year. And there is a very long way to a dignified care for the elderly. My question to the Danish People's Party is: Will the Danish People's Party help to guarantee when this parliamentary term is over that more money has been added per year. older and not less money per year. older than today?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205115036	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205115038	We can be judged by what has happened for the time being. We had parliamentary elections at the end of the summer of 2015. Finance law has been created for 2016 and 2017 while we are now holding this debate. This year we established this dignity billion for the municipalities, which is an amount that will come in the coming years to the municipalities. This includes defining what worthy care for the elderly is, so we have something for which to hold the municipalities accountable. In the 2017 Finance Act, a good 800 million has been set aside. kr. We're talking about the fact that the food is really healthy and good only when it gets into the stomach. It's no use just lying on a plastic plate in front of the older one. It must be made attractive and interesting and enjoyable to eat your meal. There's a lot of quality in that. It's important. Then there's this clipboard system that's supposed to give older people who can't themselves a greater right to define for themselves what help they want. It also gives more dignity to the elderly, not being left behind, but being able to define what you need. So that way you can measure and weigh and see that we are actually doing what we have said. We are fighting for better conditions for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205115203	Here you go, Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205115205	With regard to 0.3%. I would say that we are in a situation where we know that more and more elderly people mean that more people have to share the same thing too little money. Will the Danish People's Party help to guarantee that next year we will have a new bill of dignity, as a minimum?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205115227	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205115229	In other words, the dignity billion is an amount that comes this year and the coming years to the municipalities, while at the same time committing them to defining what dignity is understood as in their municipality. It is, of course, in order to confront them, as it must also provide a more dignified care for the elderly. It is our ambition in the Danish People's Party that we continue to secure more funding for the elderly area year by year. We fully share the view of the questioner that if we are to be able to keep up when more elderly people and, unfortunately, more demented people are going to need help, resources must also be available. So it is a combination of defining, on the one hand, what is worthy of care for the elderly and, on the other hand, how we ensure that it actually takes place in the individual municipality, in the individual nursing home, in the individual elderly, and, on the other hand, of course, to recognise that it also costs some money, that there must be some hands that help the individual elderly. And we need to be ready to drop that money.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205115321	Thank you. Then there's no more questioners. Then I will postpone the sitting until 8 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205130006	It is 13 o'clock, so we will continue the debate, and the first rapporteur to speak is Mr Cryer. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205130018	Thank you for that, President. As parents, we teach our children to have ambitions, and we teach them that it is good and that ambition is necessary. We encourage them from the moment they try to get up for the first time. We show them we believe in them. We follow them on the sidelines of the handball field, we try to keep them to the fire... some maybe just quite persistent and loud, but still. We follow them at school, where we tell them that it is important to be ambitious, that it is important to make an effort. We tell them that if they want to be good at something, they must first of all want it and set some goals. This is true no matter what our children may dream of spending their lives on. If you want to be more skilled at something, you must be ambitious, not because of the short-term results that you can read more or less enthusiasticly in the grade book, but because of the opportunities that are kept open in the long term. Being ambitious and demanding is therefore a good attitude to many of life's challenges from cradle to grave, and this is also true here. That also applies in politics. It is our duty as politicians to be ambitious, to have ambitions on behalf of Denmark, and it is necessary in a world where no country, even ours, although it is both old and lovely, can take its wealth, its jobs and its well-being for granted. There are many who have exciting ideas about what the future holds and what the next great things of the future will be: disruption, big data, internet of things and all the other English expressions that have the potential to change the way we live and give us new opportunities to make Denmark better. And the companies and organisations that tell about things all agree on one thing: that those countries that are effective, adaptable and ambitious and therefore can embrace that development will win in the 21st century. The countries that are not will lose. I do not know what the next big thing will be, but I know that the Left has an ambition that Denmark should be the place where everything is possible. We should not be passive spectators of developments. We dare to go forward into the future, but this requires us to exercise due care and this requires us to have these high ambitions now. Ambitions are, after all, the common theme of the new government basis. We will make Denmark a freer, richer and safer country for the sake of our children, for the sake of the future of Denmark and for the sake of the opportunities it brings with it. Our ambition that Denmark should be 80 billion. kr. richer this year 2025, we do not have because of the prosperity in itself, because it is just a figure. It is much more important what we can do if Denmark gets richer. Increased prosperity means that in 10, 20 and 30 years' time we can also offer each other the best medical treatment, that our elderly can also receive dignified care for the elderly, and that our young people can also grow up in a society with all the opportunities that my own generation grew up with and perhaps sometimes took a little too much for granted. We will also increase employment by 55,000-60,000 people. And why is it now that it is so important? It is again, I would say, important because of the opportunities that increased employment offers us in the long term. An increase in employment means that more Danes will become part of the working community. It is good for the individual who experiences greater dignity, greater freedom and greater meaning in life. But it is also good for Denmark as a society, because then we can spend less money on passive support and more money to strengthen our core welfare and to make our businesses more competitive. Now this is the second opening debate in this six-month period, so we are gradually getting into the routine. After all, the Rules of Procedure of Parliament are such that I shall now be affected by an avalanche of questions, which I look forward to in some bizarre way, because I hope I have some answers to those questions. It makes me think of the Jeopardy TV Quiz, which begins with the words: I have the answers, it is you who ask the questions. It is sometimes the case to be a political rapporteur in the Left. I'm expected to have all the answers, and I'll say hello to you and tell you that you have all the questions, and that's quite fine. Maybe it's best that way. Sometimes, however, I wish that the opposition, and especially Denmark's largest party, the Social Democratic Party, would be inspired a little and only once between lifting the veil of what you are carrying behind the closed doors. 'Cause it's not just hernias and horrible plunders about relaxations to the very richest paid with crying and teeth rubbing, even though I almost feel that I haven't heard anything else in the past year. Isn't there also some answers to come after with Denmark's largest party? For example: answers to whether the Social Democracy has a growth objective and, if so, what it is; whether you want to balance public budgets by 2020 or 2025; whether you want to roll back the integration benefit and the cash aid ceiling; whether you want to increase development aid; and in relation to and derived from all the questions answers to where the money is to come from. For the Social Democrats have not even bothered to present a financial bill here this year, and that is not good enough, dear friends. I understand the need to go and be a little secretive here for Christmas, but it would be nice to know how far your ambitions go if you have any. I look forward to the rest of the debate today. I am delighted that we still have a government that dares to have ambitions, I look forward to Christmas, and with that joy I have an ambition to answer any questions I may have to the best of my ability. But I would also reserve the right to demand answers from those who simply criticise and criticise. And clear answers from the opposition could almost be the best Christmas present I could get this year. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205130728	Thank you. There's a bunch of questions. The first person to speak is Mr Seligman. Nicolai Wammen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205130736	Thank you for that, and also thank you to the political rapporteur of the Left, who is in the Christmas spirit, and that is always wonderful. As the rapporteur also said, it is just a few months ago that we were here at the end of an opening debate, and on that occasion the Prime Minister on behalf of the Left announced that there was a need for public growth of 0.5%. It was as follows: we will allow public service expenditure to increase by 0.5%. annual average between now and 2025. This is considerably more than we went to the polls on, but it is necessary. We'll leave it for a second, but it's necessary. So my simple question to the political rapporteur on the Left, who feels a little like a jeopardy host here today, is: what has changed in two months makes it no longer necessary to have the 0.5%, but one can settle for 0.3 per cent.? This amounts to more than 8 billion. kr. a year. What, in two months' time, has made it possible to save 8 billion? kr. in the public sector, while it was very necessary a short time ago that this was a different figure?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205130849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205130851	I should just like to make the last comment by Mr Seligman. Nicolai Wammen to save money. In other words, when you increase consumption, you do not save anything plus 0.3 per cent. is still gone, however, plus. What has changed is what I talked about in my speech. Those are the ambitions. These are the ambitions that lead us to a 0.3% growth rate. Nicolai Wammen takes note of the reforms that we think are necessary, which we believe are necessary, because it will of course provide advice on all the things that we also put forward in the government base; some reforms that the Social Democratic Party, when in government, was very enthusiastic about, and which Mr. Bjarne Corydon, when he was Minister of Finance, suggested that we would continue if we had continued in government, which fortunately was not done, but some reforms which were welcomed by the Socialists and which we now have the opportunity to influence and participate in. It is thus an outstretched hand for cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205130956	Sir. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205130959	I have to say, sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, for me, sounds a bit like a jeopardy host who has run out of prize money, because what is the challenge here is that the political rapporteur for the Prime Minister of the Left just two months ago said it was necessary for things to be linked, that there were these 8 billion. kr. more than what the new government is proposing. When you look beyond Denmark, I think you will see that what concerns many people besides the fact that we have a new government is what we see in the area of the elderly, where people sit in their own urine and cannot get a dignified care; that it is a doctor who has resigned to a hospital. That is why I would just like to ask: does the Left's political rapporteur think that there is less need for us to invest in the welfare society today than there was two months ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205131050	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205131052	No, I certainly don't think so. I just want to say that the Prime Minister is not just my prime minister. It's ours, it's ours, all of us, Prime Minister. Then I would say that the elderly, as Mr. Nicolai Wammen highlights, of course, an example of a place where more funds have been provided, and the stories that have come out in recent days, which I also think are quite horrible, and which we do not want for our relatives, show that it is not just about money. It is also about management, it is also about how to do things in individual places, and I think we should be more skilled at that. That is why we are also proposing a management commission in the government base.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205131133	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205131135	Thank you. I heard Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Ellemann-Jensen on his excellent report. First of all, we must ensure that people are actually put into work and not just make empty promises and press their cash benefits. In addition, one must then choose to use that wealth for more welfare. A prerequisite for better welfare is therefore that we make a political choice to do so. And that may sound a little bit on Mr. Knox. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, as if it were such a choice to be made later, but it is therefore a choice that we have to make now. One of the places where we really need to make that choice is at birth. We've just seen a clinic director from Rigshospitalet leave his job because he just can't be in it anymore. It's not just cut through the skin or through the tendons that have been cut into the bone. And he is supported by midwives and by the way bosses in all sorts of other departments because there is a productivity requirement of 2%. Every year. So my question is: when have we reached the physical limit of that productivity requirement, and when are we going to get there that the Left is actually making a choice on welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205131255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205131256	I just have to deal with the error that Mrs Pernille Skip is more or less consciously making here, because the truth is that more money has come in per year. birthing, also at the Rigshospitalet. That does not mean that it is good enough, because we have to listen when such a competent man says: I can't stand this anymore. Then there are signs that there is something wrong in the Socialist-led Capital Region. It is, after all, a very, very clear cry for help and a cry that we must and can do things better. So I do not believe that money alone is the solution to anything in life. And to the point of saying that you want more money for this and that, I'd say, damn it, so will we. We just want to get them first, and we do that by more people getting to work and paying taxes for our common welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205131350	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205131351	One of the reasons Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen can conjure up the figures in this way, is that what is called a task slip has happened, and that means that the midwives who run around the corridors today carry out far, far more tasks than they did in the past. You can point out some theoretical figures, but the reality is that they are a lot of babies at once, that we have families who are sent home a few hours after they have given birth, even if they are not comfortable with it, and that it is not just one or two midwives, but very many who have left the public and have gone to the private sector because they cannot be in it in relation to professionalism. So I would just like to ask: when is it then that there has been so much employment that the Left is actually starting to bet on that welfare that they promise will come?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205131445	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205131446	Well, this kind of illustrates to me, and I actually think we can agree on that if we remove all the controversy about it, that we want something different, that management means more than money does, and that management is important, and that a management commission is a good idea. I think that is also why Mrs Mette Frederiksen mentioned it in her speech at the Social Democratic Congress, in other words that something must be done about management, that we must do away with this rule tyranny and we must set people free. I actually think it matters, and that's why we have to take it as a cry for help when a man so competent and experienced takes his good clothes and walks away.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205131526	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205131527	Thank you. Now we are discussing, of course, on the basis of an enlarged government and a new government basis and so on, and of course we have all read through the government base with great interest, and there is one thing in it that I would like to have Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Ellemann-Jensen on his excellent report. For it says that the government will work for a system of applying for asylum from a third country rather than at the borders of European countries, and that we must move away from a system that gives priority to asylum seekers who have money and strength and who support the cynical business model of people smugglers. I don't know if sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen can lift a little of the veil on how to plan such a new asylum system. After all, it is clear that it is one of the sections of the government which has the special attention of the Danish People's Party, in other words how we can proceed to get away from this asylum shopping, where we can walk around the European countries and see where we want to seek asylum and where we have no control over things. So I'm very interested to hear if there's anything a little more elaborate on this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205131630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205131631	Now it is not surprising to me that this point has attracted the attention of the Danish People's Party. There is also another paragraph which deals with Europe, which I think you will also find interesting, and when I mention the two things together, it is because it is connected. For this again expresses an ambition on behalf of the government, an ambition that Denmark cannot put into the lake alone. This is not something we can run out with ourselves and change around the world, but it is an ambition that we must seek to achieve with like-minded countries. What we have seen over the past few years, at best, in the chaotic refugee situation, is that one of the things that works is to hit the traffickers on their purses and on their business model, and that would also contribute to such a new asylum system, which would remove another branch of the human smugglers' business model. And that will reduce the pressure, is hope and ambition, on Europe and on Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205131728	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205131732	Yes, removing the basis for the traffickers is a real ambition to have. But it is clear that if we remove the basis for traffickers, by saying that people can just be flown in with a charter flight from a third country to Denmark, we can say that there is no reason to have traffickers. So it is a question of who has the right to asylum in Denmark. This universal concept of refugees means that, because you come from a country, you have the right to land somewhere else in the world, and you then have the right of asylum in principle, and in that way, before you reach the country in which you want to seek asylum, you still have to cross many national borders, there is where some of us ask whether you are not really migrant in the area in question rather than refugee status. In other words, you are not a refugee in the neighbouring country, for example. in Lebanon, or where you might have fled, and isn't it primarily there that help should be, and not by moving people, for example, to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205131816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205131817	Our ambition, of course, is to have fewer asylum seekers. However, a very large number of people who move onto the ships used by traffickers to carry people across the Mediterranean are migrants. These are people who, for understandable reasons, are seeking a better life elsewhere in the world than where they live, where they come from, and if this opportunity is already removed there, then there is also a possibility that there will not be as many lives lost in the Mediterranean as we have seen in the last few years, that is to say people who, for perfectly understandable reasons, are seeking a better life for themselves and for their children.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205131853	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205131854	Thank you. I can just start by saying to the rapporteur that we have plans on the alternative side, and they can be found on our website, and there is also a financial bill. I was very pleased when I saw the government ministers and, of course, especially that there is actually a minister for the future, who is not appointed by the Prime Minister, but by himself, and I think that is really, very interesting in relation to the education system of the future, on which we should have a great deal of focus. Now that we are talking about the future, it is also a future in which we do not necessarily know the needs of a hundred percent. And that is why we believe that there really is a need for a fight with this very linear education thinking, which is moving step by step, but that one should perhaps also be able to mix one's education more in the future. I would like to know whether these are some ideas shared by the rapporteur's party, in other words, that the education of the future is also something that you, as a young person, put together when you are on the road.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205131952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205131953	It is quite true that we do not know the future, and that is why we have an ambitious government basis which says: let us now upholster Denmark as best we can so that we can face it and embrace the future that is coming, regardless of what it looks like. In relation to education, it is really my experience that the educational institutions are actually quite good at keeping up and developing the training programmes, both new courses, but also existing ones, and at allowing new educational institutions to emerge as needs arise along the way. After all, there are many combination courses at the various universities in Denmark I have one of them myself and I think that is quite excellent and excellent. And I actually believe that universities are better at this than the rapporteur and I.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205132044	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205132046	Just as we share the ambition to free the public sector more and we look at trust, so I think it is also about freeing students. We have, of course, over the past many years reduced the opportunities to start training and to choose on other subjects and at other levels with a drive-through reform and now also with a ceiling on how many training courses can be taken, and we have an uncertain future where new innovative solutions need to be found. At least the rapporteur does not think that it might be an idea to look at what we are mixing the spirit and the hand and that we can work in the craft sector and that we can work academically and that we look a little more circular in the education sector, so that we have confidence in the students and set the students free as much as the universities and teachers.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205132131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205132132	Indeed, I share the ambition well along the way, but I simply do not believe that dual education is the answer to that challenge. This is something that we have been discussing here over the last few days: should you have the right to have it on society's account and with more SU etc. to take another education because you chose wrong or something else in the first attempt? There is what I am saying: if your education has become obsolete, you must have the opportunity to take a new one. But if you have chosen wrong and think you are interested in something else, then I think it is actually fair that you cannot just take another education from the point of view of society. We have the most generous education system in the world, and we must stick to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205132218	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205132219	There has been a new government and a new government base and congratulations on that, but there are also some ambitions that have been maintained. I can read my ambitions to reduce the tax burden also in the new government base. It was there in the past. Can the rapporteur not explain what the objective here is? If the new government is ready to present a new overall plan, or what is to be called it, will concrete funds be set aside for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205132257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205132259	You'll probably choose to call it something other than a holistic plan, because it seems so silly we can call it the twoer. But we have an ambition to lower the tax on work for ordinary Danes, lower it at the bottom so that it pays better to work. After all, it is a mantra that we have been running around saying, both in the election campaign and under the previous government, and which we are also repeating now. We want there to be a difference for those who go to work. They need to bring more home to themselves. Then we also have an ambition that there should be fewer people paying the much-mentioned top tax. And this is all the government's plan. Now the government is only a week old. The government is putting forward a plan for this next year, and there I am quite sure that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen will be enthusiastic and happy and support it and provide wise and talented input.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205132351	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205132352	Not many objectives have been set out by the rapporteur, but I assume that some of the objectives of lowering taxes are that it will actually have more people in jobs, growth in Denmark, new opportunities for more people. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur whether education and research and investment in education and research also offer more opportunities for more people, and if there is no likelihood that the government will actually give priority to education and research in this government that is coming soon, because the last time I checked for, I was standing down in the palace square, and there were students with the banner: it must pay off to work, and I really think that was so incredibly sensible of them. They demanded more investment in education instead of savings.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205132443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205132444	I actually thought that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen had listened to me when I gave my speech where these goals appeared, so I actually thought that it was something else that was asked. Those goals were, after all, a growth of 80 billion. kr., it was 55,000-60,000 more people at work. I thought Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen had understood that for the first time, but leave it alone. Yes, we would like to give priority to education. We would rather spend money on education than on SU, for example. We are also putting forward a proposal on this, and I am quite sure that the Radical Left will also support it because it is the best way of using the funds. So let us make such a reform together.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205132524	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205132526	Thank you. Several of my fellow Members have already mentioned this, but I do not think the rapporteur has answered quite satisfactorily, so I am trying again. With regard to public consumption growth of 0.3%. The rapporteur explained that it should be made a little smarter and run a little faster. My colleague Nicolai Wammen also touched on the fact that there have been some recent events that have really been in relief, how much pressure you are in the maternity wards, in the care of the elderly, etc. And we are often told by the Left and other parties on the right that you just have to make it smarter. But will the rapporteur not acknowledge that when we hear calls like that from the obstetrician, they say that they cannot make it smarter because they are in and pressure them so much that they simply do not have enough hands, that is to say they run too much, and that it has now reached a level where it is simply not responsible anymore and that person will no longer take responsibility for it? So it's a call, a cry for help. What is the rapporteur's position on this? Can we make our way out of such major problems, for example? The maternity wards?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205132643	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205132644	Well, now Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen says that my answer is not satisfactory. It's just that we don't agree. So my answer will probably not be more satisfactory for the SF, because my answer is essentially the same. So let me add: yes, we must listen to the people who know something. That is also one of the ambitions of this government. That is also, I suppose, the reason why the Prime Minister has appointed an elderly minister who knows something that has spent 37 years working with this which has spent its entire life working for older people. She is now becoming the minister of this area, with the result that one week after she has been appointed, my esteemed colleagues here take the opportunity to saw her over and give her responsibility for everything that has been going on in the care of the elderly for the past 20 years. At best, it's obscene. We must listen to the people who know something and we must pay tribute to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205132737	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205132738	I fully agree with that. But you do not take that cry for help seriously if you say that they can keep sawing, saving and all sorts of things. 0,3% is not enough to maintain just the standard that exists today, and the rapporteur knows that too. So, at best, it reaches about half of what is needed to maintain a level of welfare like that today. So if we are to pay tribute to those people who know something about it and who work out there, then we must also listen when they cry out for help and say that it has become irresponsible and that they can no longer take responsibility for what is going on in home care and in maternity halls. Will the rapporteur not acknowledge that 0.3%? Far from being enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205132824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205132826	Let me put it this way: 50 million have been added. kr., I think it is, to precisely the maternity area. There's more money per person. birthing today than there was before. I know that this is not a satisfactory answer, but I simply do not believe in it and it may well be that it is an ideological idea that more money is the solution to all the problems on earth. Because then it would be so easy, but it isn't. It's also about management. It's also about setting people free. It is also a question, as Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen says, of listening to these people. And yes, we shall do so. I just don't believe that any more money is the solution. If we want to spend more money, we have to find them; then we have to make some reforms. Join them in the spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205132909	Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205132911	Thank you. The rapporteur says that money alone does not. We in the Social Democratic Party are in complete agreement with this, and that is why we say both money and a few fingers away reform. But the rapporteur simply has to explain what has changed from the Prime Minister's statement that the 8.6 billion. kr. more by 2025 was a necessity to do it properly in our municipal welfare, until now, when it is apparently no longer necessary. So, is it a question of having a new government, a right-wing government, where it has been the concession and we know it well, that is fair enough, but then say it or is it because reality has changed? The reality I'm experiencing is just stories that people quit our birthplaces and that there are older people who don't get changed diapers. And in that light, I simply do not understand the rapporteur's answer sounds so hollow.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205133006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205133008	I can only understand that the great plunder generator down in the Social Democratic factory has been going on again and produced one question for this debate as well, just as we saw it for the previous debate and debate before it, and the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group will then repeat it indefinitely while I stand up here and come with the same answer. Listen, it's 0.3 percent. plus reforms. We will put forward reforms, and we will do so in the spring, when a number of them will be presented. You can be a part of that. We want many of the same things, there are many places we agree. Don't focus on this one with: Uhh, that's certainly not enough. No, but then help find the money. The Socialists do not have any money, and then you sit around and whine about this reform of your fingers away, about which we have not heard anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205133057	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205133058	This is very easy, because we can start by saying no to tax cuts, and we cannot be mocked by the fact that we in the Social Democratic Party intend to continue to ask this question until the Left and the Left rapporteur have an answer as to what we are doing about it, that our elderly people are not treated with dignity. The rapporteur is very sorry that we keep asking about this until the rapporteur gives a fair answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205133121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205133122	Now it is simply not just a satisfactory answer; now it is also a fair answer. I guess we can barely get higher on the shelf. Excuse me, but in relation to the growth in the public sector, I would like to say that I could understand on that Fair Solution, as it was called, which was some thing that the Social Democrats voted for, that there should be a growth of 1.4 per cent. That is enough of 0.6% now. Well, then I could be cheeky and ask the same question back, but I'm not that lame. I just want to repeat what I said before: 0.3%. plus reforms, including a thorough look at whether we provide managers in the public sector with the right tools and whether we make good use of their competences. I think the answer is no.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205133206	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205133207	Thank you. Like sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, I have also read with interest the government basis, especially as regards the alien part, and I have also noticed that it is said that it should be possible from third world countries to apply for asylum in Denmark and Europe. One can quickly imagine that the queue that will be outside the Danish asylum office in the different parts of the world could be quite long when one no longer has to make an effort to get to Denmark, but simply can search from an office, an embassy, a centre, a camp or what one imagines. So I'd like to know if Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Ellemann-Jensen on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205133254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205133255	I talked a lot about ambition before, and I can assure you, sir. Martin Henriksen says that the Left has no ambition to increase the number of asylum seekers in Denmark. Wherever asylum is sought geographically, that is not the goal. This is, on the one hand, about exposing fewer people to this deadly path across the Mediterranean and, on the other hand, about taking better care of Europe. We cannot decide on the Danish side that this is what we are doing while the rest of the world is doing something else, because then there will be the situation that Mr. Martin Henriksen describes, then there will be queues outside the consulates and the Danish embassies around, and we have no interest in that. This is about whether we, together with the other European countries, can find a new and gifted way of doing this, so that we destroy the business of traffickers.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205133347	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205133349	We are, of course, pleased in the Danish People's Party that the government has as its ambition that there should be fewer asylum seekers in Denmark and no more, but it is still a little vaguely formulated in the government base. One might say that at best it is a little vaguely worded, and in the worst case case one might actually risk a little more coming to Denmark, perhaps even many more. But it is good to hear that it is certainly not the objective. Could we get an answer to how many people are supposed to come in? Is there going to be a quota? If you think there should be a quota, why do we not move on with the system we have today, when we take 500 UN quota refugees and then reject asylum seekers at the border? It is, after all, a system that operates today, and it is within the framework of the UN Convention on Refugees to be able to reject asylum seekers at the border. So why not continue with the system that we have today instead of inventing a new one? And when does the government intend to start rejecting asylum seekers at the border?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205133440	Then we'll get the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205133442	The emergency brake that Mr. Martin Henriksen refers to, in other words, this model of rejecting asylum seekers at the border, is, after all, an emergency brake that the government will use, so that we have the opportunity to stem such situations that arose a year and a few months ago when we saw these human flows moving up the Danish motorways. We simply have no desire to get back into that situation. Therefore, this emergency brake is set up so that you can pull it when and if necessary and we hope not. On the subject of unclear wordings in the government base: but take it; take it as an opportunity, and that applies to all parties. Instead of complaining that something is unclear, take the opportunity. That's an invitation. It's an invitation to influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205133527	Mrs. Christine Antorini.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205133528	Thank you. I was pleased to hear that the political rapporteur started by saying: I have the answers. In fact, I have made an effort to listen in the answers. I understand, but I would like to be corrected if I misunderstood that what the political rapporteur has explained is that it has been said that public growth can only be 0.3 per cent. plus reforms. Unless I have completely misunderstood it, it was the way it was a few months ago, before the Left expanded the government, that it said 0.5%. plus the very same reforms. I would therefore just like to ask whether I have misunderstood it, namely that it is exactly the same, except that there is still the difference between 0.3 per cent. and 0.5%. What does it mean, and not just in percentages, but in crowns and ears and people? That means 14 000 fewer civil servants; it means over 8 billion. kr. Until 2025. So I would like to ask for an educational explanation that it is exactly the same thing, namely 0.3 per cent. with the same reforms and 0.5%. with the same reforms, but with 14,000 fewer civil servants.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205133641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205133643	One of the things my children are told when they go to school is that the prerequisite for educational introduction into a drug is that the students meet prepared for the class. There I simply have to recommend that the rapporteur read the basis of the government, because the answers are there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205133700	Mrs. Christine Antorini.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205133701	Now, in fact, I did my best because the political rapporteur has reproached others for not listening properly. I have made an effort to do so, which is why I think that the political rapporteur is actually in a position to answer whether it is not quite right that two months ago there was a proposal from the Left called 0.5%. in the public sector, plus the very same reforms as there are now, but only with lower growth. Perhaps the political rapporteur can just confirm that the consequence of this is 14 000 fewer public employees; that the consequence is fewer social and health assistants, fewer nurses, fewer teachers, fewer educators.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205133739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205133740	No, unlike under the Socialist-led government, it is not an end in itself with fewer public servants. That is what was the result of the government of which Mrs Christine Antorini was a part. This is really about having an ambition level of 0.3%. plus reforms. The 0.5% that we had earlier in the overall plan was also included in the reforms which were planned there. So they're 0.5%. is including reforms; they 0.3 per cent. is plus reforms.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205133818	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205133819	Thank you. It must be worthwhile to work, it is the well-known slogan of the Left. In view of this slogan, families with children have been reduced to poverty; a situation has been created where the sick and the unemployed are put on the streets; and at the same time we have a situation in which this principle does not actually affect the members of the Left, i.e. the former Minister for Employment, Mr. Jørgen Neergaard Larsen. He's gonna get nearly 2 million now. kr. In addition, there is a need to improve the quality of the labour market without having to make it available to the labour market. At the same time, we have a situation in which employees, if they are affected by unemployment, have been affected by poverty benefits from one day to the next. I would like to hear the rapporteur of the Left: is it really true that the principle that working should be worthwhile should not apply to ministers, for example, Mr President-in-Office of the Council? Jørgen Neergaard Larsen?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205133918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205133920	The former Minister for Employment is Mr. Jørn And yes, it must also be worthwhile for ministers to work, and I should like to say that the Prime Minister also made sure that it could and can. There are two elements of outrage in Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen's flaming speech. The first is about these so-called poverty benefits. And it will then be a repeat of what I said during the opening debate, because excuse me for a society that can afford to give two adults on cash benefits and two children 23,200 DKK. After tax a month, is not a poor society. It is a very prosperous society. We must be able to afford that. We're gonna help each other. But all this about poverty benefits is simply nonsense. We have a wish that it should pay better to work. The first part of the job reform was about the ceiling on cash benefits. The second part of the job reform is about lowering the tax on work for the lowest incomes, including saying that we will make a job premium for those who are long gone from the labour market. It must be in the interests of Enhedslisten somewhere... a party that was once a working party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205134032	Here we go again, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205134034	The Enhedslisten is, of course, still a working party. However, I would ask the rapporteur to address the issue. Is it really fair that employees affected by unemployment and disease should be reduced to poverty benefits and that, at the same time, we should have a situation where almost 2 million are paid? kr. to the former Minister for Employment without requiring him to work? Is it really fair, or can the Left understand, if there are some Danes at home who think it is not fair and that it cannot be right?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205134112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205134113	In Enhedslisten's optics and with Enhedslisten's view of retirement age, Jørn Neergaard Larsen probably retired 15 years ago, as long as he is 67 years old. I mean, can things hang out a little bit? Should he also be available, or what is the message? Or is the message just the general outrage that we, as Members of Parliament, are paid and that ministers are also paid and that there is something called post-judging? I simply think that if we want to attract ministers from outside, we will have to offer them compensation in order to lay down the time that they spend in here. It is not because it is crazy attractive in advance with what we are seeing against the Minister for the Elderly at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205134155	Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205134157	We have gone from the somewhat cheerful corner of Jeopardy to the somewhat polemical and slightly agitated corner in which the Left's political rapporteur finds himself. If we are going to try to get this debate on developments in the public sector on something concrete, we can just take the last week's coverage of some rather unworthy conditions in the care of the elderly that TV 2 has been running. In many places, care for the elderly is well, and employees work hard, all they can do. But there are also too many examples of the opposite, and some of the examples that have been there are, I think, some really unworthy examples of conditions for older people. So that way there are problems already now. There are also problems, I think, for the elected Minister for the Elderly to explain what the government is actually going to do with the situation being that way. You should be able to do better than that. At the same time, we know that there will be many thousands more older people in the years to come, and we also know that the number of children is growing. And because you have that knowledge, the Ministry of Finance itself, the government's own Ministry of Finance, says that just to keep up with the costs, for example. per older citizen, you're gonna need this 0.6 percent. more in the public sector, i.e. 28 billion. kr. More. Thank you!). The Left alone will spend the 14 billion. kr. So what we are asking for an answer to (First Vice-President Thank you! ) is: with the 14 billion. kr., then missing, where is it that conditions should be worse, or where should they be cut in relation to today?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205134318	I have to say that when I stand up, it is not because the speaking time is running out. That's when it's over a lot. And it is the case that we have some kind of solidarity here: if it is the case that you exceed a lot, then there are some who will not be able to speak. So respect and keep speaking time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205134332	Now it can be said that the risk, by repeating this question indefinitely, is almost unbearable. Sir. After all, Jesper Petersen raises the same question that has been raised before. Some of these funds must be provided through reforms. That is why the government will put forward reforms, and the starting point for this will be the overall plan for a stronger Denmark presented by the former Left Government in the autumn. We start from that, and then we say, where can we do this even better, even smarter and even better? And it will be presented in the spring. So there's the 0.3%. growth in the public sector and the possibility of distributing some funds differently, for example. by staying 1⁄2 more years on the labour market, or by making an adjustment to the SU. Those were some of the things that were set out in the overall plan and how it is actually going to be in the new plan, of course we will have to look at when it comes. But the inspiration can be found in the overall plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205134441	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205134443	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen says he is tired of getting a question. But if he answered, it might be that there were some other questions. But Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen not. The government itself says that we need 28 billion. kr. more, if you just have to keep up with the developments that are there. You will then set aside 14 billion. kr., and that's all you can guarantee. The government has shown itself to be a minority government which is quite far from having 90 mandates, and the only thing you can actually guarantee is that there are 14 billion. kr. But we need 28 billion. kr. If you cannot get through with the reforms you are proposing, where is it that the Left has prepared itself to cut down and reduce welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205134524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205134525	So, I think that we will have to discuss the reform proposals that the government will make when they are put forward, and I would very much like to do so when they are put forward. But it's kind of like when blind people discuss colors, discussing what that playout will contain when it hasn't been presented yet. That is why I say that let us now start from the overall plan for a stronger Denmark, and let us have a little imagination in addition. We would like the Social Democrats to take part in some reforms, so let us now take part in some reforms. We'd like to increase this room of opportunity... but it requires someone to play ball, and it doesn't sound like that at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205134609	Then it's mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205134611	Thank you. And on in another league with people who would like or might not want to play ball: We heard earlier today Danish People's Party chairman, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, say that the Danish People's Party did not see itself helping to raise the retirement age further, as the government would like. If it turns out that the Danish People's Party will not be involved, which I very much hope the Danish People's Party, like the Social Democrat Party, will be able to achieve the very ambitious goals, as Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen himself said so? And if so, how will it be achieved if it does not involve raising the pensionable age?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205134654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205134655	I think it is a rather sad attitude to have in life that one says: Well I guess I can't reach my ambitions, so I don't have any. That sounds almost as if that is what the rapporteur is saying. Well, we have ambitions. We present them in the government base. We tell you what we want to achieve for Denmark and what we want to achieve with Denmark. So instead of just sitting on your hands pouting and yelling, try to be a part of it. Come on, come on, come on, come There are a number of these reforms which I am quite sure the Social Democrats will also think might actually be a good idea. Instead, you just pour concrete all over Denmark and say: there is nothing that must change ever. I actually believe that we can do things better. I think we can make it smarter. I think we can also make it cheaper by putting some things out of competition, by adjusting the retirement age, as has been done, by adjusting the SU. There are a number of options and a large number of them are presented in the government base.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205134752	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205134753	Nobody's pouring concrete anywhere. If it is that the rapporteur on the Left remembers that, in the last year's time, the Social Democratic Party has contributed to a wide range of agreements with the government. But he didn't answer my question either. For my question was: if the Danish People's Party insists on the condition that it does not want to be involved in raising the retirement age, then how will the Left achieve its so-called ambitious objectives?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205134824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205134825	So, excuse me, the objectives are ambitious and not ambitious, we can hear that from the tirade of meltdown on the government basis we have come up with. But to this extent, if anyone can change their position, and if it should be above one's corpse, what somebody once said, I would say: Nevertheless, the Social Democrats have managed to agree to a pre-retirement reform and to raise the retirement age and various other things that were claimed to be opposed, but which they have succeeded in voting for anyway. I don't think things are gonna work out.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205134859	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205134902	The rapporteur of the Left has now said on several occasions that if you want to help make reforms, you can also strengthen welfare. I would like to take the Left on the floor and say that in the Radical Left we want to help find the money, for example. In this context, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. Will the Left do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205134927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205134930	See, this is what I'm talking about. This is what I have actually been calling for, that is, some people who come and say: we want to be involved, but then we want to have an influence on what it is used for. And that is something that must be discussed in the negotiations that are coming. However, I think it is a healthy approach to have you come in and say: we want to help find something, because we believe that we can. Then you have some requests about where it is to be used, and it is clear that that is something that needs to be discussed. But what we have said in relation to, among other things. The SU area is that we really want to spend more money on competences, on education than we want to spend on student support, and perhaps we could go along with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205135005	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205135007	That sounds good to me. Then we start somewhere if we can actually find each other that the Left does not keep cutting down on all our educations, but that, in return, when we sit and discuss reforms, we can agree with each other that the purpose of this is to give more opportunities to children by getting more educators, more teachers and better education.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205135029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205135031	Yes, because then we can clean up after the previous government, which under the leadership of the Radical Left removed 3,000 educators in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205135041	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205135043	Thank you. Having a baby is one of the greatest things you can experience in your life, if it goes well, I guess. Today we are hearing of more and more women who are seriously insecure about having to give birth in hospitals. Some even choose to give birth at home simply because they are insecure and because they have a midwife present throughout their birth. Well started, as you know, half-complete, it is often, and a good start to life for our new world citizens can make a world a difference in the early days of the child. Therefore, it was also very alarming for me when Morten Hedegaard, clinical director of the National Hospital's maternity ward, resigned his position. Enough is enough, he said. He could no longer cope with working under unreasonable working conditions. However, midwives, nurses, social and health assistants and even the Labour Inspectorate have in recent years also turned the alarm bells on. SF wants to go another way, and that is why we have proposed 150 million. kr. annual to raise the quality of the maternity wards. Will the Left be a part of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205135157	Then it is the rapporteur to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205135159	So, as I have mentioned a few times before, I do not believe that money alone is the solution to this. So now we are talking about the area of maternity, and this is an area where we have added more funds. I fully agree with the considerations that being born is a pretty big thing in one's life and that it is quite crucial that it also takes place in a way that both mother and child are comfortable with. But I simply do not believe that money alone will solve that challenge. I think much of this is about management, as I have said before. I think it is a lot about working conditions, and I think we have to look at this in a bigger overall rather than this universal solution, which we often resort to as politicians, to say that if it does not work, more money will have to be spent on this area. It could be something else. It could be the management that we should set more time free. These could be demands that we should make in a broader context, instead of these small, highly measurable demands that we have got a really bad habit of setting up.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205135300	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205135302	I have also taken note of the rapporteur's answer to that question. Chief medical examiners think that many of the money that has been spent has actually been eaten up by a re-priority contribution. I simply do not believe that leaders can make women give birth to 2%. In this respect, I should like to ask the Commission whether it is prepared to take the necessary steps to ensure that the European Parliament is fully involved in the work of the Committee on Budgets. Could that be an option?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205135326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205135327	I actually think that we can all be a little more skilled and more effective. After all, this 2-percent requirement is not something that has been invented in gluttonous evil, and so it was something that also existed under the previous government or the government that was there three governments ago and that SF was also part of. This is kind of about how you can be more effective, and here we're not talking about the warm hands. We're talking about the cold hands. It is therefore a question of whether we can do things better and whether we can do them better. One of the things I have to confess to getting my hands dirty is the concept of an executive doctor. I cannot understand why the two words have ever been put together. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205135407	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205135409	Thank you. Now I have been sitting for three hours listening to the great rapporteurs of the large parties. Not once has anyone mentioned any of the most landmark things we have adopted in the last three years, namely the 17 new world goals. It's like when you make new plans for your government... new plans in one place or another... it can come in a bee. It hasn't even come in the speeches here. Is it because it is priority so far down so well yes, it is something we must, and then we will find out if the Minister of Finance can write a small report on it once a year? Or does the government take these 17 world goals seriously, as seriously as we said when we adopted them over at the United Nations? I don't hear anything at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205135451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205135452	I'm a little scared to do that, but I'm very inclined to give Mr. Christian Juhl right. We therefore tend sometimes, when we sit in here, to become a little, excuse the expression, navel-seeing and concentrate very much on ourselves and not so much on the big world, which after all means more to Denmark than we mean to it with all due respect for our influence. The World Goals are thus mentioned in the government base, so it is something that matters to the government, and that is something that the government is acting on. It is also something that is part of the government's foreign policy and the government's development policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205135525	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205135526	Then I will have to re-read the government basis, or the rapporteur will have to help me to say what side it is on. But I just want to say that even in the statement from here there was nothing, and there was plenty of room for just writing a sentence about the World Goals, that it is something that you take now I must not curse pretty, very seriously, and that it is actually something that matters quite a lot to our future, perhaps more than 0.3 or 0.4 per cent. in public finances. So will the rapporteur tell me a little bit about how seriously you take these world goals?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205135604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205135605	I can tell you, sir. Christian Juhl, that it is on page 42 of the government base and that it is certainly something that the government takes seriously. This is something that takes place, primarily in foreign policy and in development policy. I actually believe that, and it is such a very honest, somewhat philosophical and very little political response that we tend in here to focus on the things we immediately have direct access to influence. And the other things can get too big. That doesn't mean we have to be intimidated by them. This does not mean that we should not try to influence them. That doesn't mean we don't need them. This does not mean that our ambitions should be low, even in foreign policy. I very much agree with Christian Juhl. So maybe we don't agree on
ParlaMint-DK_20161205135648	Thank you, sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Pernille Skipper on her report.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205135703	Thank you. Denmark has a new government. It is a government which has led to a considerable number of ministers doing the same tasks, and it is certainly a relatively violent upgrading which I think there are quite a lot of pressured nurses and educators around Denmark who are a little envious of. Although the new government is good news for the local Audi dealer, it is bad news for Denmark. Because when we look at the government base and that is why we are here today we can see that this government will undoubtedly increase inequality in our society, and this will be done on a relatively simple level: 1) by cutting down on an area for years; 2) by criticizing and pointing fingers at the area in order not to perform properly; 3) by privatising. If the new VLAK government gets power as it has watched, then that approach will speed up. Those who suffer first, of course, are the ones who already have the least; those who have lost their jobs or have suffered a disease; those who are affected by the government and the Danish People's Party's Cash Aid Ceiling, and who cannot pay rent and cannot hold children's birthday for the kids. But it affects all of us, too, because it increases the insecurity of our society. We all need a welfare society that works when we get sick, when we have to have our children in school or in an institution, or if we get a note. And it is good for all of us that we have the security; that we know that when we fall we are caught. But that security is becoming less when the government wants such a low level of public growth, as indicated by the government base it does, because if we are to keep just the current level of service, it will not be enough when there are both older and more children and we live longer. On the contrary, the government's plan will mean that billions will be missing and that there will be 14 000 fewer public employees by 2025, even if the tasks have increased. It is therefore the opposite of the conditions that are offered to oneself in the government. The deterioration that we have all experienced over the past many years will be worse. We are already hearing about midwives who go crying home from work, who cannot stand to be in public with their professional skills intact, about educators who are alone with 20 children, so one educator for 20 children, and people who, after a long life, who have worked hard for the common welfare and paid their taxes, are sitting back in a nursing home where there is simply no time to make sure that they do not have to sit in their own urine for several hours. If that is the status today, we can see what is in store if the government's plan is implemented. It will get worse, and there are already many Danes today who are taking the consequence of those conditions. 20% Danish children no longer attend primary school because resourceful parents worry and doubt whether the Danish primary school is good enough. The birthers who can afford it go to a private clinic, and then they pay 13,000 kroner. for a maternity hotel, as you call it, which means that they are allowed to have the same midwife all the way through the process and are sure that they will not be thrown home after a few hours. Of course, the elderly, who have just a little more than the national pension, buy cleaning so that the living room is not filled with dust in the corners. We cannot think of any of them in any of it, but it creates inequality that the security and opportunities for a good life that should come to us all are more reserved for the few with the money, those with the high paid jobs and those who are fortunate enough to be born of resourceful parents. It's only the first part of the government's plan. The next part is then the criticism of our public sector for being ineffective and bad and the claim that it needs something more competition or whatever they say. Then the sale comes. If you read the government base, you can see that there really is turbo on that plane. It's a wealth of private companies going in to play grocery store in our welfare, if it's up to this government. The government will actually force the municipalities to outsource parts of the welfare tasks, even if it does not make sense locally, and even if in recent years there has been one bankrupt firm after another, among other things. within home care, which has left both the insecure elderly and a huge bill for the community. TV 2 and other state companies must be sold, regardless of the fact that I think most people can eventually see that the sale of DONG was a disaster. You want to outsource health, our forests, and the government even wants to sell things that you haven't really discovered what is yet, just to make sure you get it all. They kind of write that down; you have to be absolutely sure you haven't missed anything. And it comes in addition to those 16 campsites you've also found out you're going to sell. This has been achieved in the privatisation pool. In addition, they also want private universities for the country. Then you can buy yourself for proper relationships, and then you can buy yourself to get lessons that extend beyond more than 2, 3 or 4 hours a week. You can buy yourself for guidance. And I wonder if there is good sales in it if the efficiency requirements, i.e. the green harvester, who is constantly rolling across the education area, and for which the government and the Danish People's Party are voting, continue. Yeah, because then it's the case that if Dad and Mom have a well-paid job, then you can buy yourself for the good, or you'll have to settle for the public. It doesn't surprise me that that's what the government wants, because I've seen that look on my face, sir. Anders Samuelsen may have, when he says: the world's largest public sector. It's almost like he's choking just by taking the floor in his mouth. He does everything in his power to draw a picture of the public sector being a burden, which is so graciously kept up by private business. But that's bullshit. It is our public sector that ensures that private companies have roads to run on; that there are kindergartens in which we can deliver the kids; that there are hospitals when we get sick; and that there is training for the future workforce. The public sector is a huge force for us. We must, of course, build on that. We must, of course, develop it. We must clear up bureaucracy and create better working conditions for employees. Nurses, teachers and other public servants must be allowed to be innovative and have elbow space to develop a new good idea or a new solution. We must let the municipalities run companies that deliver the required production in the local area. Not with a single focus on profit and value for shareholders, but with a focus on creating jobs and social values. We need more socio-economic companies. We must develop and improve our public sector. We're not selling it off. Then you can be tempted to spend all your gunpowder on the new government in the last few minutes, and there is enough to do. I could have talked a little longer. But in here we are probably all reasonably able to slap ourselves into what constitutes 90 mandates, and this government does not. That's why I'm now looking at mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl I wish I did if he were here and Mrs Mette Frederiksen, and to them I would say: you don't have to make 2025 plan with these people. Nobody's forcing you to do that. You don't have to add votes to their SU cuts or to their training savings. You do not have to accept a municipal agreement with such low growth that the deterioration we have seen over the past many years will continue. You don't have to vote for their privatisations and the sale of welfare. You are completely free to do with your voices as you please. And then all of these seven days, or whatever it was, at Marienborg and all the beautiful papers with the three-clover on the front page will be nothing but a scary dream that we can hopefully all wake up from soon. It's up to you. Then I would like to read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Enhedslisten and the Alternative: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that active action is needed to create a sustainable society in which we reduce inequality, preserve and develop strong collective and democratically managed welfare, supply and infrastructure, and protect our nature and increase biodiversity. The Folketing urges the government to work for: A society free from poverty, with increased economic and social sustainability, with proper conditions for people affected by unemployment and disease and a break with the control regime. Good financial framework for the welfare and replacement of the competition state's alignment with confidence in employees and focus on the needs and rights of the individual citizen. A sustainable economy based on the UN's 17 worldwide goals: sharing work, circular resource use, sharing economy and supporting new green and democratic forms of enterprise. International agreements and measures to protect against speculation, tax evasion and social dumping. A society that supports creativity throughout life. That Denmark takes global responsibility and conducts foreign policy based on conflict prevention and peacemaking. • V 20).
ParlaMint-DK_20161205140721	Thank you. That is also part of the debate. The first brief remark is from Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205140727	Thank you for that, and thank you very much to Mrs Pernille Skipper for her speech. After all, we had a small exchange of views before about the cash aid ceiling, which I understand in the Enhedslisten is one, and I quote: antisocial scandal. Does Mrs Pernille Skipper really believe that a society that gives people who have ended up outside the working community • two adult people with two children • 23,200 kr. after tax every month, is an antisocial society?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205140802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205140805	I do not think that Denmark is an antisocial society. I do not think anyone from the Enhedslisten has said that at any time, but I would like to repeat that we think that the reform of cash benefits, as Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen has carried out is antisocial, and that is because it is possible to conjure up with all sorts of figures that will make it seem like you're almost rich when you're on cash benefits, at least sometimes, when the Left speaks at the same time as the Left actually talks about the fact that it's about not being rich. That's the whole point, because otherwise you don't seem to want a job. In the Enhedslisten we do not think it is okay that people who lose their jobs or get a disease and therefore cannot support themselves for a period of time should be beaten upside down and must live in a way where they can barely pay rent or get food on the table, and that is the consequence for a great many people not for everyone, but for a great many people who are affected by the government's cash assistance reform. On the contrary, we think that we should ensure that there are jobs, and then we should do something to help those people who do not fit in with the usual boxes, where you have to run 110 per cent, so that they actually have the opportunity to participate and contribute with all they can.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205140909	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205140910	Well, we are quite in agreement on the latter. We would also like to have a spacious labour market where there is room for all of us, but I'm just a little curious about the antisocial scandal surrounding this cash aid ceiling, and it's a quote from the Enhedslisten's website. So how much money are we talking about? Because I understand that 23,200 kroner. is not enough and that I have apparently messed with the figures in some way or has the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Employment, or who has now figured it out, done it? But how high is that going to count up? Well, what's fair? Should there be a difference when you lose your job, or should you keep the income you had before you lost your job, and is that true for everyone regardless of income?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205141000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205141001	Cash benefits must be at such a level that if you lose your job, you do not fall so far that you stand to lose your home or your car or anything else. It has to be the case that if you lose your job, you may fall, but you do not fall so far that you cannot get back on your feet. In fact, we think it is fair enough that the relationship between work and outside work may not be the same, but that there is not too much distance, among other things. Because that's what creates security for all of us. We can all be hit by unemployment in a long life. I even think that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen knows someone who may have been unemployed at some point and then it is good to have that security, also because, if the jump is too long, at the same time it helps to print pay and working conditions for those who are in work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205141052	Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205141054	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. Some of that was a little bit ■ I think it can be said that the public sector is being asked to speak. Mrs Pernille Skipper must understand that the fact that the government is proposing an increase in public spending of 0.3 per cent is far from a large enough increase. That is why I have two specific questions for the rapporteur: (1) What should the growth of public consumption be if it is for the Enhedslisten? And 2) • very simple where should the money come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205141130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205141131	What we have been saying all along is that we must have at least public growth corresponding to demographic developments, and that is on the basis of the government's calculations 0.6%. Is that enough to actually restore some of the many damage that has been done in recent years? No, I don't think so, so we're gonna go higher if we're gonna feel the way Enhedslisten wants it. Because we actually believe that our public sector is worth investing in. We do not believe that it is a burden, but a force for our society, and we believe that we can use it to develop our entire society in a much more positive direction if we actually release the public sector and give employees some room for manoeuvre. Where's the money coming from? After all, it is always a debate on political priorities, and it may be that Mrs Christina Egelund thinks she is asking me a rather difficult question, but I would like to talk about it on the contrary. For us, it is about ensuring that some of those in our society who have the most and who have received tax relief on tax relief over the past many years are actually starting to contribute something more, both because that is where the money is to be taken for what benefits us all broadly in our strong community in Denmark, but also because we need to do something about the growing inequality. This means that those who have a great deal must contribute more.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205141248	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205141249	Thank you. I would really like to thank you for your specific answers. In other words, consumption in the public sector must follow demographic trends. It must then be borne in mind that the efficiency and the way they do things in the public sector have now reached a level of perfection; it cannot be done in any way better than it is done today. That's the first thing. Secondly, I understand that the answer to where the money is to come from is a bit like putting Enhedslisten on repeat: then you print some higher taxes, and then it's all going well. How high should those taxes be?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205141321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205141322	To the end: it certainly depends on what kind of treasure we are talking about. But we have no problem both with raising the top tax and creating a millionaire tax that has been discussed. We also think that it would be very beneficial not only to bring in money, but also to have a little more tranquillity in the financial sector, to have a turnover tax on financial transactions. And depending on what you are talking about, it will of course be different levels. I do not think that efficiency is perfect in the public sector. On the contrary, I think that we could do much better and that we could set public employees much more free. However, I would like to see the situation in the Liberal Alliance so much that, in this area too, we agreed to find the money before using it. What is, after all, the problem with the efficiency requirements in the public sector is that you spend the money first and then you hope to find them afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205141410	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205141411	A year ago, after all, we had a referendum on Europol and the reservation of law, and on that occasion the Enhedslist issued a promise: we did not have to deal with Europol in the vote, because the Enhedslisten agreed that if we could not continue in Europol, we would be in favour of a new referendum. At that time, I think it was a little unclear whether the Enhedslist actually thought we should continue in Europol, and I do not know if any further clarification has been made. But in any case, I just want to ask whether the promise stands. That's point one. Paragraph 2 is: how much should we be in Europol? For example, is it... Is it important for the Enhedslisten that we are in the parliamentary control of a possible special agreement? Or if it takes a referendum, is that something you want? So, my questions are really fundamental: how does the Enhedslisten feel about Europol, and how does the Enhedslisten feel about the promise made a year ago to the electorate?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205141511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205141513	Funny enough, it reminded me of some issues which I also received from the Radicals a year ago, where we would very much like to be pressured all of us to be as much involved in Europol through a special agreement as through a surrender of sovereignty. I think we should turn the clock back a little bit and remember what we voted on. We did not just vote on Europol. We voted on whether Denmark should give up self-determination in a very large area and, moreover, leave it to a small majority in this House to give up more self-determination later without asking the people. That was rejected, and I think it is very important to hold on to that. What did Enhedslisten promise? Yes, we said: you can probably get a parallel agreement, just as you have in, for example. Norway or other countries which are not even members of the European Union. So when they can, I guess we can too. And, of course, if that is not possible, we support the fact that a referendum will be held again narrowly on Europol. As I see it, something very strongly suggests that the scaremongering, as Mr. Morten Østergaard and others have been working on the fact that it cannot be done with a parallel agreement is going to fail a little and that we are actually getting something that will end up guaranteeing both self-determination and participation in Europol.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205141626	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205141627	Thanks for the answer, I think. I was simply asking whether the Enhedslisten is in favour of us being part of Europol. Then I got a whole lot of other stuff, but you can try it again. So let me reach out to another question. We have often had a common criticism of the way in which the refugee crisis has been dealt with, not only in Denmark, but in a number of countries, and one of the things I see as the only alternative to the chaos that has occurred is, of course, that between the EU countries a way is agreed to deal with large flows of refugees, in which the task is dealt with together in solidarity. Therefore, I would like to ask again relatively specifically in the hope of perhaps getting a specific answer: is it the case that the Enhedslisten is in favour of an EU distribution system for refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205141712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205141713	I'm sorry if I didn't answer the question properly before. Actually, I didn't mean to. In other words, the Enhedslisten of course believes that European police cooperation is a very good idea and absolutely necessary. There is no doubt about that. Does this mean that we think that Denmark should agree to give up a whole lot of self-determination? I do not think so, and neither does a majority of the electorate. So I think we should not sit here and be angry about it and then be glad that something indicates that we can actually get the parallel agreement with Europol. Furthermore, I would like to say that the position of the Enhedslisten on whether we should have a European solution to the refugee crisis has certainly not changed. That's a really good idea. And when the forum to negotiate it is the European Union, we use it, even though we have a lot of criticisms of the European Union in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205141756	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205141757	That is a little in line with the previous one. It would require supranational solutions to this. After all, it cannot be possible to get EU solutions to the refugee crisis unless the Commission comes in and has a competence and the Member States undertake to take their share of the responsibility. That is why I would also like to ask a question about the relationship of Enhedslisten with Europe. We see a right-wing development which is very, very violent, in France, Holland, England and, as such, Austria, even though it ended well yesterday. But it is also in Italy and elsewhere. Common to all right-wing movements is that they are awful anti-Europeans. They want the EU to disintegrate, they want to go back to the nation states and have nationalism flourish. Funny enough, Enhedslisten has the same approach to the EU as those right-wing movements. It is with some other reasons, I know that. But has it not sometimes been thought that you may be in a little bad company here and that Europe can get into a very, very dangerous situation if you do not stop the tendency to break up the European Union that is currently underway?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205141919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205141921	Firstly, it is of course also possible to obtain international solutions to the refugee crisis at an intergovernmental level. There's nothing in supranationalism that means you get it. That's what we've been able to see. On the contrary, the former Danish Government could have taken the lead in this, but unfortunately it did not. So I do not think we should count on the European Union to come and save us from an incredibly antisocial immigration policy in no way. Then I would like to say that I do not buy the contrast, that is, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's argument that if someone with whom we do not agree and whom we do not like happens to agree with us in one area, then we must change our position. Well, I could turn it around and ask: Holger K. Nielsen never thought that he is in incredibly bad company with all the enthusiastic EU parties who, no matter what happens, just want to transfer more and more self-determination to a supranational undemocratic system that brings down a neoliberal economic policy on the peoples of Europe and forces cuts through which ordinary people are affected?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205142031	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205142031-2	No. I am more concerned about what is happening in Europe these years. I'm very concerned about that. Because I see some trends that I think we have seen in history in the past. And I think that the left should be those who take it seriously and are aware that those movements that want the European Union dissolved, who want the European Union to be blown to pieces, are those which promote a development that is therefore deadly for our continent. Should the Left not there have some visions that make one stand a hero, quite different from where Enhedslisten stands, which is quite the same place as the different nationalist movements stand?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205142125	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205142126	Basically, I very much disagree, but I think we need to have a longer discussion on this. I do not think that the left should ignore the problems. I think it is a mistake to think that one can try to lecture the people of Europe not to be concerned about jobs that close; for cuts that are being dragged over their heads; and for them, no matter what government they choose, not to be able to choose another economic policy. I do not think that this kind of anti-democracy should be ignored. I believe that we in the Left must insist that there are fundamental problems in Europe where a small political and economic elite is stepping on everyone else. And if we don't deliver the solutions, the right populists will.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205142209	Then it's Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205142211	Thank you. I fully recognise that there are places in our welfare societies where we can and must do better, but I regret that the Enhedslisten rapporteur has such a need to talk the whole welfare society under the floorboards in the way I think the rapporteur does. I would like to present the rapporteur with something so extremely boring and annoying as a little bit of facts. A study was carried out in 2016 by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly in collaboration with KL, where they asked the elderly about their satisfaction with practical help and personal care, both those who lived in nursing homes and those who lived in their own homes. More than 8 out of 10 were satisfied with the help they received more than 8 out of 10 were satisfied! Similarly, in the field of health, what is called a LUP is made, where you ask about the satisfaction of the birthers, and here had 93 per cent. a really good or good birth experience. There have been several references to these figures about births, and there I have an article here from Politiken, where they write that more money has come to births • 2,207 kr. per birth. How does this relate to the image being produced by Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205142325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205142326	I fully recognise that there are plenty of people who are very, very satisfied with our welfare society. Luckily! Is that an excuse to smash it? No, I don't think so. Do you have to close your eyes to whether there are any problems? No, I certainly don't think so. I had an old grandmother until recently, who was one of the kind of older people that you know who could never complain about anything, never, and she loved no one higher than the sosu helpers who came to her every day, it was just before she loved them more than she loved me. But she still had to buy cleaning to make sure that there wasn't dust in all sorts of places in her home. Fortunately, she could afford that, but not all elderly people have it. It's not just about satisfaction, it's about what we think is okay. Having said that, I would say that it is true that we can measure it in such a way that more money has been added to it. birth, but at the same time the midwives have been given a whole lot of extra tasks, and what we hear from midwives and doctors from clinics throughout the country is that what is being delivered is not proper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205142440	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205142441	I would like to know who, according to the rapporteur, is breaking loose on the Danish welfare community or has any desire to do so, because I certainly do not know any parties in the Folketing who want to do so. But the figures speak their clear language. You've gone from spending 22,000 kroner. on a birth in 2013 to 24,000 DKK. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning In this interview, the doctor is asked: Why are you quitting now that the funds have been set up? To this he answers: it is a personal consideration which also has to do with my life and my health. Are we, as politicians, not to be cautious about politics alone on the basis of a few stories on TV 2 or on the basis of a single doctor's employment relationship?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205142526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205142527	I look forward to Mrs Mette Abildgaard repeating the last argument next time there is some foreign case that gets everyone in here all up and running. I really look forward to that. Yes, Mrs Abildgaard is quite right, of course, that we should not just pursue a single case policy, and even if the figure goes from the approx. Twenty-two thousand kroner. ed approx. 24,000 kroner, there's a whole lot of extra work hiding downstairs. I have, in fact, answered that at the same time. Secondly, it is not just a few stories, they are really, very many midwives, bosses and giving birth, who have really bad experiences and who indicate that they are being asked to run too fast. It can't be done anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205142610	Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205142611	Thank you. Now I feel just called to say that it may well be that Mrs Pernille Skipper believes that there have been more tasks for the midwives, but it is also the case that the number of midwives has increased from 1,280 in 2010 to 1.468 in 2015, so there have been more midwives with them. But now that's not what I wanted to talk about. I heard Mrs Pernille Skipper earlier when the rapporteur of the Left asked about the cash aid, and I understand that Enhedslisten believes that it is antisocial and quite unreasonable that a cash-aid couple with two children should be paid DKK 23,200. a month. I noted that my own rapporteur asked what the level should be and that Mrs Pernille Skipper replied that it should not fall so much that you lose your home and your car. So I just want to ask: does it apply to everyone in this society that the level shouldn't fall so much that you lose your home or your car?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205142711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205142714	It's about a family of four living for 23,000 kroner. and pay rent, quotas, buy food I would very much like me to be denied that you try to make it sound as if the cash benefits are high in that case. It is absolutely not. In addition, I believe that what is beautiful about our welfare society is that you are sure to be caught when you fall, even if you are some rich, smart investment man who puts everything at risk, or whatever, and goes bankrupt. Then I don't think you should end up on the street. No, I don't think so. You shouldn't fall so far that you fall through, and nobody should. Do I think that we should put the cash aid so high that some of the people up in North Zealand with their very expensive houses should have them paid out of public funds? No, of course not. That's over-interpreting what I'm trying to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205142815	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205142817	Overinterpretation or not, I merely relate to what the rapporteur said, namely that it should not fall so much that one lost one's home or one's car. And it's clear that it's a perfectly natural consequence to ask if it applies to everyone in this society. But there I can understand that there is a difference between where you live and where you live. Do I understand that correctly? The rapporteur can then de- or confirm that. This then raises the question of where the level should then be. What does Mrs Pernille Skipper think is fair to get paid if you are now a cash benefit family or you are a family with two adults and two children?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205142851	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205142852	The answer to the first question is: No, of course it has nothing to do with where you live. It has something to do with maintaining a fair standard of living, paying your rent, getting food on the table. In fact, I think it is fair enough that even if you have lost your job, there is a chance that the kids can still go to football and take part in children's birthdays, and perhaps that you can buy a Coke on Saturday night. I think that is actually quite fair and fair in one of the richest countries in the world, so that when you work hard what you can, you are also sure that you are being caught. And that also means that if you're some of the richest in this society, you shouldn't fall all the way through, but then you're sure you're gonna get caught.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205142934	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205142936	Thank you. Mrs Pernille Skipper said that there should be Enhedslisten sort of agreed that there should be. We can go back and see that, but the rapporteur said so. It will be the case with the ceiling that a family of a couple living together on cash benefits, one of whom gets a job at the minimum wage agreed by the social partners, will have an increase of DKr 1 900. a month. So my question is: how much less should that amount be?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143018	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143019	Well, I really don't have a calculation on that. Well, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, that we've been figuring it out? I say that, of course, if you lose your job, even without falling so far that you cannot pay rent and everything else, which unfortunately is the consequence not for everyone, but for too many, because of this cash aid reform. That's what I'm saying. I say, moreover, that I do not have a huge need for that fall in income from being in work to being out of work to be really, really big, quite the opposite. We don't necessarily think it should be, because we think it's okay that you get caught. And if it is too high, it also helps to print pay and working conditions. Watch your blood pressure, okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143110	I certainly do not think that the Enhedslisten is doing much. That's how much we can agree on. I stand and tell Mrs Pernille Skipper what the reality is, and it is that the family on cash benefits will have two children and a couple living together, one taking a job at the minimum wage agreed by the social partners, increased its availability by DKK 1,900. a month. I don't think it's very much. I think it's very, very little. However, the rapporteur said in his speech that it should be Enhedslisten agreed: there should of course be a difference between being on cash benefits and being in work. So since the difference is 1,900 kroner. I ask you, with the ceiling on cash benefits, how much less is the family to benefit from the one taking jobs for the wages agreed between the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143206	Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143208	First of all, I would like to challenge the fact that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is able to tell me a lot about reality, especially when he claims in the next breath that DKK 1,900. is not very much. If sir... Joachim B. Olsen tried to live on cash benefits for a few months, I think I can promise that he would like a job that gave him $1,900. extra a month. Does he know how much money it is for an ordinary family? It's a big difference. By the way, maybe so maybe sir. Joachim B. Olsen might think that people in this country actually want to contribute what they can, actually want to work, even if you don't get 1⁄2 million. kr. In your pocket every time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143300	Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143303	Thank you. It is well known that Enhedslisten's standard response to finding money is to raise taxes, so it could be interesting to try to ask: Is there any taxes at all that should not rise?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143317	We think it is a really bad idea to let taxes rise at the bottom for ordinary people. We don't want to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143326	Here you go, sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143336	Is the answer to that, then, that if you don't want to raise them there, they just have to rise even more somewhere else? Because it shines through on Enhedslisten's answers that when you have to find money, it's about raising taxes in some form or another. So maybe there's a single tax you don't want to raise, but is the answer in general that taxes just have to be increased? Or are you in other ways ready to try to make ends reach together?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143355	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143357	Well, I think you can find the money in a lot of places, and we also have all kinds of suggestions. But it is not true that it is just the taxes in general that we point to and that we then leave it to the Left to choose. I mean, really not. We are actually talking about the fact that we want to ensure that those at the top of our society contribute something more because they have been granted tax relief for very many years. Actually, it's their turn. So it could be raising corporate tax again, it is one thing, but it could also be a millionaire tax, it could be top tax, it could be sales tax on financial transactions as mentioned. There are plenty of places where we could find the money. Our primary aim is to ensure that those who pay are those who already have a lot and that ordinary hard-working people, both those who have lost their jobs for a period of time and those who are still working hard, are of course free.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143453	Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143505	Thank you. After Brexit, the enhanced cooperation on a financial tax, something that we in the SF would like to see. And I almost heard Mrs Pernille Skipper say it before, so just to be absolutely sure: Does Enhedslisten want Denmark to join the enhanced cooperation on a financial tax? It is also a proposal that the SF has in the Chamber on Wednesday. Does Enhedslisten want Denmark to join the enhanced cooperation in order to obtain a pan-European financial tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143542	I am very sorry that I have simply not read the specific proposal of the SF. However, European cooperation to obtain a financial tax thinks Enhedslisten is a good idea. There is no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143555	Here you go, Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143559	Thank you. I'm glad. And, as I have understood the policy of the Enhedslisten, at least some kind of closer European police cooperation is also desired, that we follow the European climate objectives and that we also have European solutions in the area of refugees. So, I fully agree that there are substantive, political issues that can be criticised in the European Union, and that is how we feel about the SF, but if you want to participate in all these European cooperation in the various areas, how does it relate to the fact that Enhedslisten has a policy that Denmark should not be a member of the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143642	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143644	It is true that there are some things that come from the European Union that the Enhedslisten criticizes in terms of content, and there are also some things that come from the European Union that we actually think are quite sensible in terms of content. After all, our fundamental criticism of the European Union is about the undemocratic structure. This is a supranational cooperation which brings down a certain economic policy, among other things. in Denmark because we have joined it so that we cannot be allowed as a European population, for example. to choose a different economic policy from the neoliberal one with which I know that both Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen and we in the Enhedslisten have a very big problem, because it affects ordinary people because it is undemocratically built up and so on. I'm afraid I'm not allowed to say anything more.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143733	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143736	I asked for the floor because I simply did not find out what Mrs Pernille Skipper answered Joachim B. Olsen on the question of the DKK 1 900. in contrast to a couple with two children where one of the adults gets into low-wage employment. There is now a difference of DKK 1,900 with the ceiling. Is it an appropriate difference, or is it too small or too big a difference from the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143807	Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143808	Those calculations and those numbers I just don't know what is. I know, sir. Joachim B. Olsen in the past had forgotten to deduct rent expenses or, for example, rent expenses. had included benefits which ordinary people in work also receive, such as child benefit or housing insurance. So I have to admit, I haven't heard the number before. I haven't seen it. I don't want to go down a road that could end up in a terrible mess. But I can answer the same thing that I have answered once before, and that is what Enhedslisten thinks, namely that when you lose your job, you have to be caught and that it is okay that there is not a crazy big difference between being in work and having lost it, because it can happen to all of us for a period of time in our lives. By the way, DKK 1,900. for the people you talk about, a lot of money.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143905	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205143907	I assume that when Mrs Pernille Skipper questions the figures that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is presenting, and Mrs Pernille Skipper has proof of this, otherwise it is a tough attack on a colleague in the debate here in Parliament. But my question is this: I fully agree with Mrs Pernille Skipper that people should be caught. Then Mrs Pernille Skipper says that there must be no crazy difference in the amount of money when you are in employment and when you get caught up in the social system. What's a not crazy big difference? If, however, we cannot get a figure on it, we cannot get a little grip on what we are talking about at all, because it is a little difficult when Mrs Pernille Skipper does not want to relate to the figures, but does not even give any explanation of what Enhedslisten's performance is when you talk about a not crazy big difference. Give me a number on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205144006	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205144007	No. It may be that for the Left it is extremely important that you lose a lot of money when you lose your job. It may be that the Left has the idea that you have to spend all your waking and sleeping hours figuring out how much difference it has to be between being at work and not being at work. I've heard the mantra: it has to pay to work. There are two problems with that. One is that Enhedslisten does not share the Left's idea that people do not want to work and try to cheat themselves into not doing it. The second is that it is already worthwhile to work and that there is no respect for unemployed people with that rhetoric. So no, we haven't spent a lot of hours discussing and figuring that out.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205144058	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205144102	Today it is the case that they 10%. of the population, which earns the most, pays 30%. of the taxes. How many percent do they have to go on according to Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205144115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205144116	It's amazing how you have to deliver figures to the Liberal Alliance today. The Enhedslisten believes that it is fair enough that the top section of the population contributes something more. We think it is a really bad idea to spend a lot of money on lowering the top tax, we would actually like to raise it a little bit. And then we have had a proposal in the past, for example. 10% Millionaire treasure. We think that is fair enough. It's not like we have a ceiling. And I'll bet that mr. Henrik Dahl's next question is about how high the marginal tax may be. But I just have to say it's the lowest it's ever been to what? I simply do not believe that the fact that those who have much and can contribute more are allowed and asked to contribute to the community is causing our society to fall apart. On the contrary, I believe that we are getting a strong and secure welfare society out of it, not only because we can finance the common welfare that is good for all of us and gives us all opportunities in life, but also because it strengthens the cohesion that we are not totally unequal and that we can face each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205144226	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205144228	It was a very long, empty talk in response to an extremely specific question. I'll just try to understand. Does Enhedslisten want in the future just to have it rejected fact-based questions?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205144241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205144242	No, no.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205144248	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205144259	Thank you. Come on down from the tree, Anders; liberal fire sale for ministerial cars... that's what it's been like over and over again lately. And yes, Anders Samuelsen has come down from the tree in which commentators and politicians have placed him, since the Liberal Alliance made it clear that the possibilities for the V government, if it were to retain power, consisted of top tax concessions or elections. Then there are some who say a little polemical that Anders has jumped off the tree and directly into a fat minister car. The truth is, he's jumped into a Challenger. As far as I know, he's going to a NATO meeting tomorrow. Happily, he'll be back. When I say that, it is because it is a good picture that what has happened is not that we have come down, but that the others have come up to us, because Denmark has got a new government with Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen as Prime Minister and with a solid bourgeois liberal support from the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party. I am one of those who welcome the fact that Mrs Mette Frederiksen and the rest of the left are not in charge of the new leadership of our country. The Liberal Alliance has long wanted to come into government and help take responsibility for drawing Denmark in the right direction. It doesn't matter whether it's one side or the other of the Folketing that sits on government power. It is of great importance, it is of real importance, and we are happy to contribute to it. The Liberal Alliance made that clear during the government negotiations after the summer 2015 elections, and it has always been our desire and ambition to join in. I don't know much about sports, but I know that when grades are awarded in ski jumps, you get one character for style and artistic performance and one character for the harder result, namely how far you jump. I understand if anyone has looked with amazement at our artistic performance in the Liberal Alliance in the run-up to the formation of government. On the other hand, no one can disagree that, in terms of influence, we have jumped really far in a very short time. It gives full value for the money to the voters who, in the election of the European Parliament, crossed over us. The 88 pages of the government basis are not a 1:1 copy of the Liberal Alliance's work programme or programme of principles, of course it is not. Does it mean, on the other hand, that the Liberal Alliance is now in favour of Denmark having an even more expensive public sector, that the desire for tax relief has been thrown into oblivion's cemetery, or that we are dropping the value struggle for more freedom and less state? No, of course not. The policies and attitudes of the Liberal Alliance are the same. We still think that the top tax should be removed, that the public sector should be less, that the bridge charge over Storebælt should be removed and that there should be more room for diversity ^ to mention just a few examples. We are exactly as liberal today as we were yesterday as we were one year ago and six years ago. On Tuesday last week, the politician in his leader Liberal Alliance highlighted the courage of the Liberal Alliance to take responsibility by entering a government, and on Thursday we could then read on the cover of Information that the government basis is, and I quote: more liberal than ever. I'm not sure it's positive when it comes from those edges, but leave it at that. The only conclusion must be to hear the truth from children, drunk people and left-wing newspapers. Because it is an ambitious government basis on which the new tri-clanket government is based. Two months minus one day ago, we had an opening debate here in the Folketing. Here the then political rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, that Denmark needs enthusiasm, optimism and initiative, and that is exactly the spirit and values that permeate the foundation of the new government. And well, while we're at the opening debate a few months ago, there's also the update that while Dynamit Anders has joined forces with both Egon Olsen and Kjeld Jensen about a common plan, Yvonne is still most concerned about using other people's money without any plans. The Liberal Alliance wants a Denmark where more people support themselves; where there is room for innovation and innovation; where growth is of a size so that the prosperity and prosperity of the future is assured; where we welcome new companies with enthusiasm instead of skepticism; where we not only embrace but cultivate new technologies; and where we neither strangle new companies with crazy high taxes nor with an insistence that new forms of death and torment should fit in old boxes. We know that too high a tax burden has a negative effect on the desire to give it an extra shell and thus also on growth. Denmark is in a growth crisis, which is about much more than having to afford a delicious kitchen. It is about our common future welfare society, and it is about the individual's right to dispose of more own money. For frankly, with what right can we in the Folketing allow ourselves to sit on about half of the country's wealth, as if we know best, in other words better than the citizens, what is good for the individual? We don't. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance welcome the fact that the government's basis clearly states that total public expenditure must form a smaller part of the economy and, at the same time, we must ensure that the economy is increased. Those who believe that we solve all problems by unconsciously spending even more of our citizens' money are wrong. The left is wrong. One must therefore be of a special cast in order to feel better than the citizens themselves to dispose of their own resources. The art of limitation is an overlooked virtue, also in politics. For the Liberal Alliance, the goal of government participation is clear: Danes must have greater self-determination over their own lives; they must be freer at all to be Danes. This also means that we must take fundamental liberal freedoms seriously. We are living at a time when the ideal of open, free and democratic society is being challenged, particularly by anti-democratics, but also by populists, protectionists and people who believe that if we just turn back time when we had the Europe of nations, everything will be much better. But it is nostalgic toe-to-toe for the citizens, because the challenges of globalisation will not be solved by pretending that globalisation will go away if we close our eyes and keep our ears shut. It doesn't. We cannot opt out of reality, no matter how many national defenses one has to put up against it. That is why we must face protectionism with free trade as our response, populism with honesty, and we must face the fact that Denmark in general and Danish companies in particular, more than ever before, operate in a reality where competition is global. If Denmark is to be a part of this, it requires us to move up the list of growth rates in the world. Sleeping Beauty is over. The government base addresses the challenges clearly and puts the level of ambition high: 60,000 more in employment and an increase in prosperity of 80 billion. kr. If we want to ensure freedom, better opportunities for more and proper welfare in the future, we can be nothing more than to reform in time, and the Liberal Alliance has put working gloves on so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205145120	Thank you. There are many brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's sir. Nicolai Wammen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205145128	Thank you for that and also thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund for her speech. I think it is remarkable that the political rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance starts by saying that the artistic impression of the Liberal Alliance in government has not been good, but now the Foreign Minister has to fly, and then everything will be all right. For the rest of us who have followed it, it seems that the Foreign Minister has swallowed up so many camels that it would make an Arab sheik jealous, trying to make it in government compatible with also being a representative of the Liberal Alliance. We have seen a string of ministers who have said that they are not Liberal Alliance anymore, now they are part of a government team and therefore it is good to have the political rapporteur. I would therefore just like to ask the political rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance something: what does the Liberal Alliance think should be the retirement age in Denmark, and do you think it would be a good idea to abolish the post-retirement pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205145236	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205145237	Thank you for the question. I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Nicolai Wammen is pleased that there is a political rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. I should like to say that it is also good to be the political rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, especially at a time when our party is so moving in and taking responsibility. But I think the rapporteur has heard my speech wrong, because I did not say that the artistic impression of the Liberal Alliance had been bad; I just said that on the factor of how far one gets, how far one jumps, we would have got very high grades. On the specific issues of retirement age, how high it should be, and on the post-retirement pay, I would say that the policy of the Liberal Alliance is that the post-retirement wage should be abolished. That is what we go to every negotiating table with. And when it comes to retirement age, we believe that, at a time when we are in the happy situation of people living longer, it is, fortunately, also very reasonable to work longer. That actually makes very good sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205145343	Sir. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205145345	Now part of what needs to be negotiated in the future is how high the retirement age should be. After all, the government has played out that it must have financed its top tax concessions by allowing people who do not benefit from them to be longer in the labour market. The 2025 plan adopted by the Liberal Alliance considered that the retirement age should be raised to 68 years from 2019. That is why I just want to hear from the Liberal Alliance whether it is still the policy of the Liberal Alliance and whether it is going to be the policy of the government as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205145425	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205145426	Yeah, and yeah. The Liberal Alliance, as I said in my speech, has the same views today as we had a month ago and as we did a year ago. What is new to us is that we can now work in a new way with our policy. Of course, the fact that we are now in government means that we have more influence. This does not mean that we are changing our positions, but it means that we have committed ourselves in that college or community, one can say as a government is, but of course we have not changed our positions because we have gone into government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205145457	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205145502	Thank you. We're told that in the Liberal Alliance, you're like you used to be. There was a song where it sounded like this: "It's impossible to see it if you don't know it." I find it difficult to recognise what is happening now. I understand that this is responsibility. The Prime Minister has also praised the responsibility shown by the Liberal Alliance, and our new Foreign Minister has praised himself too many times. I just want to know, is that what you do? Is this how you show responsibility, that is, by entering a government and then thinking something quite different from what you did before? Then the Minister for Foreign Affairs no longer talks about the EU; the Minister for Transport has stopped talking about taxi law; the Minister for the Elderly believes that it is some others that should take care of older people's policy; and the Minister for Education no longer talks about primary school. I just want to learn it for another time, in case the Danish People's Party one day should be part of a government: is that how you do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205145600	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205145601	Yeah, that's what you do. You build a party on very clear positions and on a clear ideological basis in our case it is on liberalism and then you develop a very concrete party programme in a wide range of policy areas, and with that in your hand you seek influence. That is what the Liberal Alliance has been doing for many years, and most recently we have managed to get right up to where there is the most influence, namely in government offices. So I can only recommend the Danish People's Party to do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205145632	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205145634	I think it is no secret that, I believe, we were given the offer at a time after the last elections in June that we would be very happy to do so, provided that we conducted the policy of the Left. So what I see is the difference between what the Liberal Alliance has done and what we have chosen. They say you get influence. I just think it must be difficult to be a political rapporteur in a situation where you really have to stand up and give a speech and all your ministers, all Liberal Alliance ministers, think something quite different. But I think it is very well done and I would like to congratulate you on your artistic achievement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205145709	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205145710	Thank you. Then I'm curious what character becomes for how far you jump. Well, I don't know what it is, sir. Søren Espersen has heard lately. I have not noticed that Liberal Alliance ministers or other politicians from the Liberal Alliance have adopted different positions, but what has happened is that we have gained more influence with the positions we have. I share the same views that I have always held; the Minister for Foreign Affairs shares the same views that he has always held; the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing shares the same views that he has always held. Where it can be said that the Liberal Alliance has made such a Catch 22 is, of course, that we have gained influence with our positions, and that is why we are in Danish politics. And that is why, I think, the voters vote for us. They want the attitudes we represent to influence the development of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205145759	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205145804	Thank you. With its participation in the new government, the Liberal Alliance has, of course, joined the public school circle, and I would like to hear from the rapporteur a little bit about what initiatives we can expect from the Liberal Alliance in this regard. The Liberal Alliance and, above all, the new Minister of Education have been very clear in their criticism, and it was not difficult when I had to look for statements. But one of the more bassantes was, for example. a year ago in Berlingske, where the current minister said: I cannot think of anything good to say about the reform. It is a rhetoric that even Enhedslisten may find it difficult to live up to in a good day, and on that basis I would like to hear: How will we see LA get to the heart of primary school? What are the initiatives that LA will take to change the current reform of primary schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205145906	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205145907	The Liberal Alliance respects this, and the Minister for Education has also said that there is a conciliation in the field of primary education, and I am so confident that when this conciliation is to be administered and we know that there is a great deal of influence in it there is a minister in the Ministry of Education who takes seriously the concerns raised by a broad spectrum of the environment around the primary school; a minister who has the ambition that the school should also take advantage of some of the degrees of freedom, that is to say, the possibilities of interpretation which lie in the elementary school agreement. So I'm kind of happy about it. I also think it is healthy that a text can be challenged and that you have a minister who takes seriously the concerns that have been raised across the board in connection with the reform of primary schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205145953	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205145956	I certainly also find it interesting to have a significant critic of the public school settlement and of the reform of primary school in and administer the area. At the same time, however, I think that having been so marked on the part of the Liberal Alliance, it would be a good thing if we lifted a bit of the veil. Because I assume and have a clear expectation that not only because you are joining the public school conciliation circle, you are going to manage the existing reform of the primary school, but that you are actually going to challenge it. At least that's a hope that I have. So the rapporteur could not, after all, lift a bit of a veil to where he is going to challenge it? Is it on the long days of school? Is that on the national tests? Or is it perhaps on school break-out schemes that are currently severely in need after school reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205150046	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205150047	After all, I am delighted to note that Mr. Jakob Sølvhøj has thus thoroughly examined the Liberal Alliance's views on elementary school. And it can be expected that these are the positions that the Minister of Education carries with her into her ministry and that she will also work for, but of course with respect for the fact that the framework of primary school is that there is a settlement that is respected. But the attitude is the same, that is, that there should be more room for management at each primary school; that there should be greater freedom to decide some things locally; that you should take more stock of what pupils and teachers want and of the individual school teacher's own ambitions for the school in question. These positions are intact, but it is clear that we respect the conciliation that lies in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205150133	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205150137	Thank you. I would like to start by congratulating the Liberal Alliance on the ministerial posts and, of course, the rapporteur on his new role. I'd like us to try to raise the level a little bit. Instead of talking about camels to swallow, I actually think that for the simple reason that we should like to reduce meat intake here in Denmark, we should try to see where we want to go. I think it has been nice to see the self-appointed Minister for the future from the Left, who is going to work with our future, with education. And, following on from the question I put to the Left rapporteur, I would like to hear the Liberal Alliance's thoughts on the education system of the future. I mean, do we also see from the Liberal Alliance a fight with this very linear way of thinking about education as something we need to get through quickly? Can we imagine other ways of educating ourselves, which are more holistic and more organic?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205150232	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205150233	Thank you for the question. What we can count on with regard to the role of the Liberal Alliance in the field of education is actually the approach that we have to many parts of the public sector, namely that we do not believe that it is we 179 in here who know exactly how things are to be arranged. We are actually confident that those who are passionate about it and work with it on a daily basis have a greater sense of it than we have. That is why we are working for greater degrees of freedom, and we are doing so in relation to large parts of the public sector, to those who work with it in the daily life, who have trained in it and who are passionate about it. So, yes, a smaller state management of the educations too is certainly on our wish list.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205150315	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205150317	Should that confidence and freedom also be understood as applying to the students themselves. For one thing, there can be some clever heads who have read something for many years. But something else is that we actually have some young people who are probably better at looking in the future than many of us other than those at universities and professional colleges, for example. So is there also confidence in the students, the young people, and that they should also have the opportunity to choose freely and be able to jump between the programmes and perhaps also mix the work of the hand and the knowledge of the spirit in the long term?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205150350	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205150351	Yeah. After all, it is in the spirit of being liberal to have confidence in the individual and to provide the maximum possible framework for the individual to unfold according to the wishes of the individual. I actually believe basically that the individual is better able to make decisions for his life than I am or a majority here in the Folketing is. So, of course, the levels of freedom also affect the individual and not just the institutions, but these things go hand in hand. And basically, it is a question of whether, from a political point of view, one is confident that others are able to make good decisions and that we do not need to regulate everything from here in detail with such zeal as is sometimes shown.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205150435	Then it is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205150440	Thank you. I would like to begin by congratulating both the political rapporteur and the Liberal Alliance on having succeeded in moving the growth of the public sector from the 0.5% that we had to understand at the Prime Minister's time when he presented his 2025 plan to what is now in the government base, namely 0.3 per cent. Congratulations. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is whether we should understand the fact that the Liberal Alliance is now satisfied, because we talked earlier about the need for negative growth in the public sector. It hasn't been. We have been able to hear the chairman of the Danish People's Party talk a lot about minus, and that zero and zero have become a plus, and that is fantastic. So I would just like to ask the Liberal Alliance's political rapporteur whether it is satisfied that public sector growth has fallen to 0.3%.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205150528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205150529	First of all, thank you for congratulating both government participation and my own new job. Well, we are pleased that we have managed to move the former Left Government, which wanted public spending to increase by 0.5%, so that it should now only increase by 0.3 per cent. Does this mean that it is the policy of the Liberal Alliance? No, it doesn't. If we decided on our own, there was less growth in the public sector, but unfortunately the world is not that good. But of course we are satisfied that we have succeeded, from a liberal point of view, in drawing it in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205150602	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205150603	Thank you. That was an almost as clear answer as one can get from the Liberal Alliance to these questions about the party's position versus the government's position. Then I would like to say in the second round that when you look at the Ministry of Finance's own figures in relation to demography and what it takes to keep up with money in the public sector in order to keep up with the level that we have now, because there are more older people, the growth that the government, thanks to the Liberal Alliance, is proposing, will lack 13 billion. kr. just to live up to the level we have now. I would just like to ask the Liberal Alliance rapporteur what that will mean for the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205150637	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205150638	What I think the questioner insinuates with his question is that if you are to have good care for the elderly, it is always only about adding more money to the public sector. This is also a bit of the debate on older people's policy, both yesterday and today, which I do not think has been quite fair everywhere. I would just like to say that this is what has been done for decades: every time there have been problems in the public sector, you address it with more money or more rules. That is what has left us today with a gift of the world's most expensive public sector and a mess of rules, which we must then pay a lot of bureaucrats to lift. It may well be that it was time to do it differently from the way we have always done it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205150724	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205150728	First of all, perhaps I would just like to try to clear up a misunderstanding, because following the debate in the daily press, one can almost get the impression that only the Ministers of the Liberal Alliance are involved in a series of conciliations, but I hope that we agree that it is typically the case that parties are all inclusive, that is to say, both ministers and ordinary members of parliament, who come into conciliation. That's why you must probably all be prepared for it, and then in your quiet mind you can think about them what you want. What I really want to ask is perhaps more forward-looking and perhaps not so much about the conciliation that has been reached. When it comes to personal freedom, which is a subject of common concern to us, is it so that the Liberal Alliance can say that the government of which one is a part will not increase the monitoring of the Danes' doings and barn in the free spaces? I am thinking in particular of the concerns previously expressed by the Left about logging the movement of citizens. Is it the case that here we can count on the Liberal Alliance to put its foot down and say that it will not be with the Liberal Alliance in government that we increase the monitoring of the citizens of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205150823	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205150825	I would just like to agree with the rapporteur that it is true that it is the whole party, in other words the whole Liberal Alliance, that is now entering into the conciliation that you do when you join a government, so I agree with that. After all, when it comes to monitoring, earlier this year there was a proposal on the table to introduce a massive sessional logging, as it is called, of citizens, and that is not going to happen. The proposal, which was specifically on the table at the beginning of this year, to reinstate it because it was a reinstatement of the session log that was killed in 2014 with the argument that it did not work anyway, will not be voted through with the votes of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205150905	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205150907	No, but the new discussion that has arisen is, of course, about the so-called 'positional', i.e. whether you want to take new steps to keep an eye on where the citizens are in the country, and I am sure that in a slightly perverted fantasy in my view, it might be easier to solve crimes of all kinds, if you know where all citizens are at any time, by means of mobile masts. However, it is a rather massive surveillance which would have made any Eastern European intelligence service proud, and that is why my question is just: can we count on the fact that this increase in monitoring the Danes in their free movement in our society does not remain with the Liberal Alliance in government?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205150944	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205150946	We have always said, also in the debate on the original proposal to reinstate session logging, that we have neither been deaf nor blind to the fact that, as crime is also going on online, the police must, of course, have the tools to keep up there. What this is about for us is the proportion, that is, that there is a balance between the monitoring tools that are given to the police and the crime that they have to solve or investigate. And there we can be expected to be on the side of legal certainty when it comes to finding exactly the right balance and the right proportions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151021	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151026	Thank you. Wet diapers, long waiting times, if you have to go to the bathroom, cancellation of the bath, far too little fresh air • The media floated over last week with heartbreaking reports of excessive elderly care. Let me assume that the appointment of an elderly minister is about the poor conditions to be dealt with. But more and more older people also mean that more resources are needed for the care of the elderly, but with a growth in welfare costs of only 0.3 per cent. There is the prospect of even worse conditions for the elderly and very far from dignified care for the elderly per year. If we are merely to maintain the current level, we must add more than a billion. kr., not once, but every year for many years. The Liberal Alliance has, of course, on several occasions over the past week bought out steel positions, so could the elderly be so lucky that the Liberal Alliance will help ensure sufficient growth so that we can ensure a decent care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151134	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151135	To the end, I can say 'yes' quite clearly. On the question of whether the Liberal Alliance will help ensure sufficient growth to ensure dignified care for the elderly, that is a clear yes. That is why we are in favour of the tax being lightened and the economy being strengthened and more jobs being needed, so that we get more money to secure, among other things. better care for the elderly. So clearly yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151156	Here you go, Mrs. Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151158	I think that in this context we are talking about two different types of growth. Growth in the version of the Liberal Alliance is quite viewed birds on the roof, and waiting time for a toilet visit can go and get really, really long. So how long does the Liberal Alliance think we can keep the elderly talking when there is an obvious need for action now?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151220	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151221	I think it might be a bit harsh to want to make a new minister who joined six days ago responsible for the state of affairs in the care of the elderly, even at a time when this is also the first time that the Liberal Alliance is going into government. What we want to do in the area of the elderly is to do away with habit thinking and what I think one might call idea poverty, namely that every time there are problems, it is about more regulation, more supervision and more money. It could also be imagined that the resources that lie could be used much wiser than today by those who work in the care of the elderly, in fact, being allowed to care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151301	Thank you. Sir. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151306	Thank you for that, and thank you for a very clear position on the issue of the early retirement of my colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Nicolai Wammen. I thought that was very clear. I just want to know if I understood it correctly: does what the rapporteur has said mean that the Liberal Alliance in government will work to ensure that this government comes forward with proposals to abolish the post-retirement pay? That is how I heard it, and I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151331	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151331-2	However, it cannot come as a surprise that a political party is working to put its positions into practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151340	Here you go, sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151352	Thank you. So that means working to get the government to put forward proposals to abolish the post-retirement wage. I thought that was a confirmation to get from here. Then I just have to deal with the government base, which we have all read a little about in the world, and there are different places to deal with something about the public sector, public expenditure and so on. Can the rapporteur confirm that the government basis means that the public sector must be smaller than it is today?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151420	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151422	Yes, as a part of the economy, and that is because the government has an ambition that the economy should grow, that this country should become richer. And we have a very concrete, written down with figures... it can't be more concrete objectives, an ambition for prosperity to increase by 80 billion. kr. This is historically ambitious, and we are very pleased about this in the Liberal Alliance, because that is what it is all about: getting more people into work. And it is clear that, when wealth accumulates, and if we spend the same money in the state as we do today, the total public expenditure pressure falls relatively as a proportion of the economy. But the goal must be, and I hope that is also the aim of the Social Democrat Party, that the prosperity of society as a whole increases.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151512	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151516	Thank you. Now Mrs Christina Egelund and myself have shared a number of hours in the Committee on European Affairs, and I have found that the Liberal Alliance has voted against 32%. the negotiating mandate given to the previous government. Then I just want to hear from the rapporteur how things are going with changing the negotiating mandates. So, are there any of them that we can expect to see in the Committee on European Affairs again? After all, we had a case on the tax avoidance directive in the European Committee on Friday, and we had to note that the plea of the Liberal Alliance has certainly not been heard. In any case, the Minister for Finance stressed this. So I would really like an answer to that. I would also like to hear how this tweet from 23 June 2016 that the current Foreign Minister came along with is reflected in the government base. The Foreign Minister wrote: "The EU has only one option if collapse is to be avoided: drop the arrogance and focus on the core product: peace, freedom and free trade. ▪ How can you find it in the governing body?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151626	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151628	There were two questions: firstly, if we want to seek the mandates we have No, we will not, because if Denmark is to be a credible partner internationally, and I think Denmark should be, then of course you stand by the things that have been said, also in the European Union. That's gotta be it. Secondly, I really think that the tweet from the Foreign Minister of 23 June, which the questioner read out, that the European Union should concentrate on peace, freedom and free trade, is a beautiful quote, which I fully support.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151700	Here you go, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151702	But we look forward to seeing that in the future, for we certainly cannot find it in the government base. Now I understand that the rapporteur has looked at something that the rapporteur called the Europe of nations. It is, after all, a bad thing to do with what the current Foreign Minister has said in the past: we are the real sceptics. Then I do not know what we are in the Danish People's Party, if it is the Liberal Alliance that is the real sceptics. I can only note that when I hear the rapporteur and read the government basis, I think there is more of Mr. Anders Samuelsen anno 2004 • The way to a better Europe • A bridge between "yes" or "no" over the policy of the Liberal Alliance, and it was about EU hospitals and EU studies and about Turkey entering the EU than there really is EU skepticism left of the Liberal Alliance. On the way back to 2004 and towards a better Europe, as Mr. Anders Samuelsen wrote back then?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151754	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151755	We're not going back to 2004, we're going into 2017. What is stated in the government's constitution on European policy is that European policy or the European Union should be at the heart. This is, of course, the very heart of the European Union's policy that the Liberal Alliance has stood for for a long time, namely that the European Union must deal with what is by nature cross-border, that is to say, problems that we have their nature best solved together, and not everything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151827	Thank you. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151832	Mrs Christina Egelund replied, in exultation, that LA in the government will work to abolish the post-retirement wage. Will LA in the government also work for negative growth in the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151847	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151849	The Liberal Alliance is working and I hope that it will not surprise anyone who is involved in politics in all the forums we participate in, and it is clear that the government is a key place to get as much of our policy implemented as possible. I think that is actually true of all political parties. I hope that applies to all political parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151912	Mrs. Trine Bramsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151913	Is it to be understood that at the forthcoming growth negotiations, the forthcoming financial agreements, the Liberal Alliance in the government will work to get negative growth in the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151926	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205151927	It has to be understood that all the places where the Liberal Alliance is seeking influence are, of course, based on our positions. Of course. That is one side of the coin. On the other hand, it is clear that we are professional people and see that when you are part of a government, in our case quite topical with two other parties, it is the work of finding the common mass of our positions and sometimes pulling each other in the direction of each other. Some compromises arise from this. We are very pleased and very proud of the government basis. There are really good prints from the Liberal Alliance in that government base. And then we have respect for the fact that, in a college with three parties, there is of course also room for each other. But, of course, the Liberal Alliance is working everywhere we act to get as much of our policy through as possible. Anything else would be pretty much absurd.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205152014	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205152018	Thank you. I don't have time to list all the reasons why I got a little sad when I read this government base. But I would like to admit to Mrs Christina Egelund that there was one page I broke up on first. That was page 52. It says something about the law on public access to documents. I'd like to make a walk down memory lane. I believe that the new Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior remembers that it has not always been the case that the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance have argued. In fact, we have had a very good cooperation, because we have said to each other, we have given each other a handshake, so that when you have power in this country, you have to put up with being looked after in the cards. Openness and the possibility of access to documents and the public being able to keep track of what is happening in the ministries are so important for democracy. We didn't want to vote for that public law. These were three paragraphs: 22, 24 and 27.7. But it only says something about one. Where are the others?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205152133	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205152136	It is true that the government base addresses the issue of the Public Service Act and that it says in the Government Constitution that I think the Liberal Alliance can rightly be proud of the fact that the issue of public service must be greater. Then I would actually like to sign for Mrs Pernille Skipper's view that when it comes to many legal questions, the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslisten have run a very fine couple race. I agree with her on that. This applies to monitoring, classical legal certainty and data security. I also hope that Mrs Pernille Skipper welcomes the fact that, among other things, there is one thing that is important. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government's basis says that we want to set up a criminal code committee so that we can look very carefully at this area. A Commission on Freedom of expression must be set up, which I know is an area of concern to the Enhedslisten. So when it comes to the Public Service Act, there is the government basis, and we welcome the fact that the area of ministerial service must be more transparent.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205152247	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205152250	I don't understand. Obviously something has been forgotten. We used to agree that 22, 24 and 27 don't belong anywhere. They had to be abolished. We used to agree that that's not how we work in this country when you have power. It's gone. Before Mrs Christina Egelund says that compromises must also be reached. May I remind you of how many parties have stood outside the government and shouted for openness, and as soon as they have sat down in that part of the Parliamentary Chamber there is a sudden need for a free space, as it is called. Does the Liberal Alliance also need that space now? Or will the Ministers of the Liberal Alliance administer increased openness and thus not use the three paragraphs to shut down access to documents?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205152343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205152346	Mrs Pernille Skipper is right to say that there has been a tendency that once you have stood outside the government, you could stand and shout about ideals, and in the second you have entered the government, the ideals are forgotten. That is why I am also glad that it is precisely when the Liberal Alliance enters the government that the government is being written into the government base that there must be greater publicity in the ministerial service.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205152411	Sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205152416	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The new government base shows that the government's growth target for 2025 has been adjusted up to 80 billion. kr., and that there must be 55,000 to 60,000 more available for the labour market. So a target has now been set, which means that the workforce will have to increase by 15.00 to 20.000 more compared with the previous government, the V government, plan for 2025. It is a growth target of 15 billion. kr. higher than in the previous government 2025 plan. In this light, will the rapporteur explain what further steps will be taken in relation to the overall plan of the previous government, the new government? I am thinking mainly of how to achieve the increased objectives of growth and labour supply. What does this involve, given that we need lower public services?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205152514	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205152516	The questioner is right to say that when it comes to employment and prosperity in this country, the government of the Tripartite Government is more ambitious than the previous government. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome you. I am of such a cast that I think great ambitions are better than small ambitions. Exactly how to put it into practice is, to put it frankly, something that is being presented in concrete proposals along the way. I think that what we should bear in mind is that we work in all sorts of other contexts too, that we first set ourselves an objective and agree on an objective and would also like to argue why that objective is important. And when you agree, you find your way there. It's weird first to lay down on the tools and then find out where it can lead us. If you do it like that, sometimes it can lead you back instead of forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205152605	Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205152607	Thank you. Let's try to be a little more specific. The rapporteur says that we must set targets and find our way there. On the subject of public services, the Liberal Alliance has told us that they want to dismantle the post-retirement pay. But can the rapporteur not be specific and tell me and the citizens what other public services the party intends to take out?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205152633	Mrs. Christina Egelund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205152635	No, I can't. But I can confirm the ambitions that the questioner knows. I tried to ask the party leader of the questioner, when he was on the floor a little earlier, what ambitions or goals Social democracy has actually set itself when it comes to prosperity and employment. Unfortunately, I did not really get an answer to that, but it may be that the questioner can help.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205152657	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205152701	Thank you. I would like to follow up the question raised earlier by my colleague Rasmus Nordqvist on education. The rapporteur replied that the Liberal Alliance wants more freedom, that the individual employees in the educational institutions know better for themselves and that students do the same. That sounds really good. I would therefore like to hear how the rapporteur feels about the current legislation, for example. in the context of the progress reform. And will the Liberal Alliance change legislation, and what will the Liberal Alliance really change?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205152747	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205152750	Thanks for the nice words. When it comes to the progress reform, the Liberal Alliance actually joined it at the time, but we have later had the courage to say that we have regretted it because we do not think it works as intended, especially not from the point of view of students. Of course, we still have that attitude. What is really crucial for us when it comes to education is that we do not imagine ourselves and I answered that too, Mr President. Rasmus Nordqvist said that the 179 people sitting in here know exactly how to set things up in the public sector. Because they don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205152829	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205152831	If the position is that we do not know the best in here, how does the rapporteur feel about the legislation in the various areas? I am thinking, for example. In addition, there is a need to improve the quality of education and training and to improve the quality of education and training. Do those things not mean that we in the Folketing go in and decide something, even if some may know better for themselves? Students do not know better themselves if they, for example, know. must have an education in addition to another?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205152901	Mrs. Christina Egelund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205152902	Yes. And that ceiling is to say, as it is, not an idea that has grown in the garden of the Liberal Alliance. We dare to say this in the same way as we have dared to say that the drive-through reform that has been carried out has not brought anything clearly good with it. When it comes to education and research in general, we are a party that is prepared to give as much freedom as possible, especially when it comes to research. Nor should we say from here exactly where the stones of the display are to be found in the future, because we really believe that scientists understand that better than we do. And that is why we are also in favour of removing from legislation any barriers that may now exist so that research can, so to speak, unfold in all its diversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205152952	Here you go, Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205152956	Thank you. Now Mrs Pernille Skipper has just ahead of me, but I would like to follow up on the Public Service Act. A few weeks ago there were seven out of nine parties in the Folketing who wanted to change the three paragraphs or have them removed, but with the entry of Conservatives and Liberal Alliance into the government a new government basis has been written, where it is such a little fluffy and it only deals with one paragraph. I hope the rapporteur understands that we are some who are concerned, because we have had a debate, and the rapporteur knows this, over with the former Minister of Justice, where the radical leader, where the Conservative leader and the SF leader, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, have been sitting and discussing these paragraphs and where we said: well, we have to take stock of reality and everything that has come forward, including from the Ombudsman. The Liberal Alliance has also been a well-known critic of it. So now we have gone from a situation where there was a significant majority of the people to change the public law to the fact that the majority has now vanished with the new government constellation. Can the Liberal Alliance's political rapporteur understand that we are concerned about this situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205153116	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205153118	I understand that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is concerned about the public law. By the way, that is a concern that we share in the Liberal Alliance. Perhaps the SF should also have thought about this before voting in favour of the Public Act at the time. But when I think that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen should nevertheless be a little less concerned today than she should be the day when the government base was written, then it is because the government base addresses the need for a review of the public law. And on a specific point, it says that there must be greater openness. It is, of course, a victory that I think we should all enjoy together.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205153156	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205153159	Thank you. However, one must also recognise when one becomes wiser and when there are a number of cases in which the Ombudsman is also very serious in his criticism, and say that then, of course, we will have to look at it again. And perhaps I think that the rapporteur is just right in it when you have just entered a government where you enter into the conciliation on the Public Service Act. The Liberal Alliance stands for the Public Act, including now. So let us drop that part of it and discuss what is important, namely: can the Liberal Alliance guarantee that the changes for which we had a majority of the people before are the changes that will now become reality with the Liberal Alliance in government?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205153243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205153244	So, at the risk of it becoming too polemical: now Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen says that the Liberal Alliance is in favour of the public law, and that is perhaps a rather rhetorical tightening up. I also think I should remind Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen that the SF helped to introduce the Public Service Act or the recent amendments to it. The best possible ticket to change this public law, which we both agree is not very good, is, in fact, to rely on the Liberal Alliance to work on it here in the government. I think we can be very pleased about that, and I hope the questioner is also aware that it is now being addressed in the government's constitution, that the Public Service Act must be revised, and that it is written quite clearly on a specific point that there must be greater publicity in the service of ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205153329	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205153332	Thank you. It is not because I object that we are talking about the Danes and the well-being of the Danes and the profit of the Liberal Alliance voters by having you seated. But I now think that the question I asked Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, actually should also be addressed to you: have you prevented the adoption of the Tripartite Government from containing anything about the 17 World Goals? I think it is directly irresponsible that no responsibility for the global situation should be taken. I think it is quite irresponsible when we talk about the state of the empire that we should not at least say that we have committed ourselves to actually taking this planet's state very seriously over the next 15 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205153416	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205153417	No, the Liberal Alliance has not prevented the 17 world goals from being addressed in the government base. After all, Denmark has joined the 17 world objectives, and of course we stand by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205153429	Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205153431	Now I wasn't talking about the government base, because I've been told by Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen that it is on page 42. I haven't checked it, but I think I'm right. But there is, of course, a proposal for adoption to be voted on later, and there is nothing, not even about the Danish Government's obligations, not a word. Nor have we heard a word from the rapporteur, just a little bit, about what is happening outside Denmark's borders. We are a lovely little country, a butter hole and everything else, but there is therefore a brave world that is hammering unjustly and hammering poor in some places and for which we have a responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205153503	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205153506	I don't know if sir. Christian Juhl didn't hear my speech. Christian Juhl actually addressed what is happening in the world in my speech. I am concerned, and the Liberal Alliance is concerned about the trend towards protectionism, about populism that we see in the world, and we would like to address this with more openness, with more honesty, with more free trade. And when it comes to the 17 objectives of the world, I must just repeat what I said before, namely that we are a party which believes that when Denmark has entered into an international commitment, it is of course something that we stand by. This is how a professional and solid party does in all respects, and of course Denmark must also do so internationally.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205153553	Thank you. Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205153556	Thank you. When the Prime Minister invited the bourgeois parties into a new government, he said that now it should be the end of red lines and ultimate demands that now it was time for realism. I just have one brief question: does the Liberal Alliance not have any red lines anymore in relation to what this new government can do?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205153619	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205153620	If sir... Thomas Jensen, with red lines, believes the ultimate demand, the answer is no, for now we are in a much better position than we did when we had to make an ultimate demand for political influence. Now we are sitting where you have much more influence. If you just look at the state's finances, the ultimate demands that we made for a whole year were to influence approx. 1 billion kr. out of the total state budget. Now we are in a position where we have an impact on the total state budget, that is to say about 1 100 billion. kr. And in that position there is no reason to make the ultimate demands or red lines, because now we are getting value for money, so to speak, in relation to our positions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205153704	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205153705	Now it is good that the rapporteur is beginning to talk about the overall budget, because we saw at this year's budget negotiations that the left was not invited to negotiations. Therefore, it is also in the cards that the forthcoming negotiations on the 2018 Finance Act will again be with an invitation to the Danish People's Party. After what I have been able to listen to in the last few days, is it not quite agreed on the growth of public consumption, so my question is therefore: if, now, a demand is being made for public consumption to grow by 0.5-0.6%, does that mean that the Liberal Alliance is still trying to start pushing public spending in a different direction than the government basis says?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205153746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205153747	After all, the questioner knows that all conciliations, all agreements, including the agreement on the Finance Act for 2018, must then be the outcome of compromises. What we are concerned with, and we have been concerned about this all the time, in the Liberal Alliance, is that the whole economy must grow. That is what is most important to us. And when we are so concerned about the tax, it is because we know that high taxes lower the economy, in other words put a brake on wealth creation, on job creation and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205153822	Thanks for that, and that's the last one asking. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205153845	Thank you to the Prime Minister for having called this extraordinary debate. The alternative is always happy to debate and, of course, has also been inspired by this a little weird course up to a new government, so I have actually written two speeches: A red speech that deals with the concerns we have about our brands • I think most of you actually know most of the content • but I have also written a green speech, and it elects the Prime Minister. One of the things that makes the alternative the most curious when we look at the government and the government basis is, in fact, the many newly created ministries and ministerial posts. Of course, we had hoped for an independent Ministry of the Environment, and I will not hide that, because we do believe that it is absolutely crucial that Denmark has a strong ministry with a focus on our nature and environment. However, we welcome the fact that Denmark has a brand new Ministry of Public Innovation. The new Ministry is said to be working on modernisation, digitalisation and debureaucratisation. Exciting. After all, it brings hope for more experiments, creative solutions and new entrepreneurial responses to well-known problems in the public sector, and there is such a need for more ingenuity and less habit thinking. For example: we must dare experiment with confidence in people and make the public sector more free from its straitjacket of bureaucracy and control tyranny, because we are actually educating people who are passionate about caring for our children, educating our young people, caring for us when we are ill, and making old age something that does not just have to be overcome. Unfortunately, bureaucracy has long since grown too large and too meaningless. It restricts employees from doing their job, it inhibits job satisfaction, and it weakens the quality of the public service. But it is not just about bureaucracy; it is also about finding new solutions to the challenges we face. That is why we must make the public sector much more innovative. We therefore hope that the government will work to create a smarter, freer and less bureaucratic public sector, a public sector that both improves welfare and more recognises the professional skills of employees. Speaking of recognition, we would also like to pay tribute to the government for raising awareness of equality, which is a very important area, which unfortunately has received far too little attention. Well, that's gonna change now. At any rate, it is a good promise that Denmark has a Minister for Gender Equality who no longer has it as a secondary area. At the same time, it is wise to link the area of equality with Nordic co-operation, for more of our neighbouring countries are much more advanced when it comes to equality than we are in Denmark, for example in relation to earmarked maternity leave for men already in Norway, Sweden and Iceland. We look forward to working with the Minister for Gender Equality, because we have not forgotten that she was one of the Leftmen who defied the party line and in 2009 ensured that homosexuals were given the right to adopt. So thank you for that. I know she's in China, but thank you. In this way, the expectations of the new minister are very high. In particular, we hope that the Minister will give priority to the fight against homophobia in society, for example. in the field of sport, that she will be seriously involved in the fight for the rights of transsexuals, and then we still have very major structural challenges in terms of gender equality. This requires a very special effort from kindergarten to boardrooms. If she wants to, we'll be ready. She just has to call. It is also clear from the government's basis that the government will rethink development policy, and it has its very own ministry. We note that the government has changed the title of Minister for Development Cooperation. We are pleased about this, because words create reality and when you choose the word 'cooperation', it is, after all, up to a more binding and equal partnership with the outside world, a partnership in which cooperation with civil society and NGOs should be strengthened at home and where developing countries should sit at the negotiating table when international standards, trade and taxes are discussed in the big world. Last but not least, we hope that the new minister will give priority to work on the 17 sustainability targets, not least the aim of reducing inequality. The World Goals are really important, and Denmark should play an active role in ensuring that the objectives become a serious working tool both at home and abroad. Then I have noted that the government's former sheriff has been baptizing himself for the future. It really sets standards for how he will approach his ministry. I hope that we will see very quickly the impressions of his work, which shows that he really believes that education is something for the future and that it should therefore be invested in it. It made me think that it's not that stupid an idea with a Ministry of the Future. They have one in Sweden, and we actually think that the Prime Minister should consider whether the Minister for the future does not deserve a Ministry of the future so that he can get some help with the work on the crystal ball. Then that call has been passed on. If I have to say something more specific about the Prime Minister's speech the other day, the alternative not only sees the expansion of government as a helping hand to bourgeois Denmark, we see it as a helping hand to all parties as a sign that the government wants broad cooperation with the whole parliament. So does the alternative. Because we are faced as a society with challenges that are so great that we cannot solve them separately, we have to solve them together through cooperation. Fortunately, there are several areas in which we see opportunities for cooperation in the alternative. The Liberal Alliance and the Alternative have had more in common than just the offices on the Ride Track. In fact, we have common agendas, not least when it comes to creating a more entrepreneurial society, a freer public sector and a more open and inclusive democracy. It is no secret that the latter, in particular, is really of great concern to us. We are therefore delighted that it is clear from the government's basis that a Commission on Freedom of expression will be set up and that the Public Service Act will have to be revised. I guess it wouldn't have worked out without the Liberal Alliance, so thank you for that. Hopefully, this is only the first step on the road to a more open and transparent democracy, and here we have high expectations of Denmark's most liberal party on that point, although we may have to look a long way for an Iraq Commission. There are also high expectations of the Liberal Alliance and Conservatives when it comes to citizen involvement. We look forward to the government working openly and honestly with the Folketing to implement the resolution on citizen-driven proposals adopted by all parties except the Left and the Social Democrats in the autumn. If I turn to the Prime Minister and the Left, I know, through talks with the former Minister for Business, that we share the ambition to strengthen entrepreneurship. Small and medium-sized enterprises have at times accounted for more than half of the job creation in Denmark, but they also contribute innovation and creativity. Therefore, it should be in the common interest of both the government and the alternative to ensure that it becomes easier and more attractive to invest in and start an entrepreneurial business. We have presented 26 concrete proposals on how to strengthen entrepreneurship and we hope that we can discuss these proposals with the new government when negotiating growth plans in the spring. In any case, we believe that there is every reason to make it a common project that the 21st century will be the century of entrepreneurs. The green speech must, of course, end with the green hopes of the government, the Conservative People's Party, because it gives hope for the future that the Conservatives outside the government have shown that they care about climate, environment and nature. I also know that we are two parties that are very much in agreement that business can be a fully active player when it comes to the green transition. There is a huge potential, and we must of course exploit it, so that we become world champions in ecology, green innovation, green research, green energy and green technology. But until we secure that World Cup, we can start with a European Championship. Let us reduce the tax on fruit and vegetables to the lowest permitted level in the European Union. This is what we have proposed in the alternative in our Finance Act, and there are conservative profiles such as Mrs Helle Sjelle, who has previously been out to propose. I look forward to discussing the future of Denmark and the world with both the government and the opposition. No one can be in any doubt that, although we are a small country, we have really, really great potential, and that should be reflected in the visions we are discussing together here. So let us take on the role of visionary social architects, and let us work together on how Denmark will not only be the best country in the world, but the best country for the world, because there is such a need for new ideas. We need new ideas in Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205154805	Thank you from here, too. The first brief remark is from Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205154814	Thank you, sir. President. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist says here in the end that we must be both the best country in the world and the best country for the world, especially in the climate area. But there may be situations where you cannot be both at once. In other words, if our ambitions are running away with us here in Denmark and we risk imposing such high charges for the benefit of the climate, as the alternative also proposes, then we risk the same jobs moving abroad, and that is not the best thing for the world. Then maybe we'll be the best in the world. How is that balance to be sought? The government is suggesting that we should take the lead, but we should not wipe out the climate bill on the other countries of the world. What is the alternative's view of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205154907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205154908	No, we should not do that, but we are now competing on something other than taxes and taxes when it comes to creating jobs, and we know that Denmark has a great deal to offer. We have some well-educated young people and we have a good infrastructure, and that is something that also counts. And then it is important to see that we are not as bad as some are trying to draw a picture of, in relation to taxes. We could have kept a PSP and changed it a little, so it reminded us of the German one, and then we could also have come very far in developing a green energy sector. So I think we should be careful not to think that we are as strict about our business as some people are trying to draw a picture of. We believe that a great deal can be done to change the behaviour that exists. What is important is that we finance the changeover, but we also have to change our behaviour, and that is what we have always used taxes for, for example, taxes on cigarettes and alcohol, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155001	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155002	I understand that, and there we may agree a little along the way. It is also not to try to draw an untruthful picture that I would not be familiar with after the rapporteur's very positive speech. I just want to make sure that the alternative understands that one of the consequences of pursuing a very ambitious climate policy in Denmark is that the companies that are in Denmark and which pollute less than in other countries and which emit less CO2 2 Where is the balance there? Should we maintain our ambitions and jobs in Denmark, or should we risk wiping off the climate challenge on some other countries, so that our common land will be worse?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155053	But it is not just a question of putting a tax on, it is a question of working actively with the business community, and if there are some companies that are not green enough and that can be much better, then we must go in public and help them. We must ensure that there is proper research and strengthen research in this area so that they can act better. After all, it is always a question of cooperation between the public and the private. We should not just turn the charges, no, we should go out and be active co-players with business and with the private sector in order to create the green transition, which is a bottom-up task.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155124	Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155129	Thank you for that and thank you for a very good speech with many visions. I'd like to ask you a few questions about primary school. I am in the habit of asking the rapporteur a little about the area of children and school, because I think it is a place where we have a common interest in taking the lead. Now you could see in several media yesterday that there are a lot of teachers fleeing the Danish primary school, and I think one of the reasons why they do so is that more and more teachers are experiencing an increase in their average teaching hours as the time for preparation falls and falls. That is why we in the SF have tried to address this problem and said that we would like to help with more local agreements and we also believe that more funding should be made available for preparation. Now I have read the whole of the Finance Act of the Alternative, which came here this autumn, and which, of course, filled a great deal. However, there is not really a word about funding for primary school, nor about preparation for teachers. So I really want to hear from the rapporteur what the alternative means should be done to ensure that teachers have time to do well-prepared teaching.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155234	Now I'm gonna come up with an answer that's just as difficult for mr. Jacob Mark, as it was, the last time he asked about the children's area. And that is that we do not actually believe in the fact that we have to sit here and decide how many minutes of preparation should go to one, but not to the other. We have a vision of a public school that is free, we have a vision that you have some talented leaders and some talented teachers who are actually allowed to organise their work and find out what it is like for them to use the time to the best of their ability. We can easily see that, therefore, there are challenges here and now in relation to the reform of primary schools that has been made, and that is why we often speak very much against it. Because it creates an alignment of all the institutions that we think is inappropriate, and it may well be that some buttons need to be screwed there to make it work. However, as we do in the area of children, we would like to see the freedom for teachers who are in a school to create the framework for children's learning, which is best.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155332	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155335	But sometimes it is the case that frameworks and requirements do not really fit together, and that is why I believe that this development is taking place, with teachers having less and less time to prepare and their average teaching hours increasing. We have a share in this because we helped make the reform, but that is why it is so important to me that we solve this problem. But does the rapporteur not think that when you see the problems out there, as you do, here too, from Christiansborg, we need to help ensure that something is actually done to ensure that teachers have the preparation time they need?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155410	I think we should be very good at helping with that. When there's something we've done that creates an inappropriateness, we're gonna have to change it. And that is what has been done with the reform of primary schools: it is bad. It is bad because it spans the individual institution and the individual teacher, and that is why it needs to be changed. Then it may well be that we have to make some temporary solutions until we get there, in order, after all, to improve the everyday life of teachers and children. But I think it's unambitious if all we want is to go and turn some buttons around to make sure it's not so bad. Let's do a proper primary school instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155444	Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155447	Thank you. I couldn't help thinking that the Prime Minister chose correctly when he 'chosen' the green speech from Mr. Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. At least I think it was a very, very good and positive speech, and it is always a pleasure to hear from the alternative. I also got a little curious about the red speech, because I was wondering if the rapporteur really has been so diligent that he has prepared a whole further speech. So in a way, I'm a little curious to hear maybe just the first few lines of it to see if it's really another speech. But in the more serious end, I would like to hear something from the rapporteur. Now this goal has come to 50 per cent. of our energy needs must be covered by renewable energy by 2030. I would like to try to hear the alternative: what are the energy sources in which you see great potential? How do you see that you can achieve this goal, which applies both to electricity and heat, but also to our transport sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155540	First of all, I can tell the questioner that you can find both speeches on the alternative's facebook page, because I have actually written two speeches. The second starts with: when I look at the new government basis, I honestly feel that I am looking at a very expensive Christmas present for the present, when the bill is passed on to the future. With that said, yes, there are some objectives that are good and for which I have praised Conservatives. We have got some targets into the government base on renewable energy, and we must, of course, look at wind energy, we must look at solar energy, which is also worth taking with us. And then I know that the alternative's super nerd is talking about, among other things. I'm not as nerdy as we should be looking at. Of course, we must always be good at looking at new renewable energy sources that do not leave waste to be cleaned up afterwards. Because it is also important when we talk about renewable energy and CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155645	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155646	Now we just heard a few sentences of the red speech, but I think I have been confirmed that you always choose right when you choose green over red. These are some fine considerations in relation to energy requirements. I would just like to conclude by asking whether the alternative envisages entering into a new energy settlement and helping to influence the energy supply of the future in Denmark in this way. After all, it will be in the coming years that we are about to have it negotiated.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155713-2	Well, we'd be happy to. We would like to enter into conciliation whether it is in the field of energy or whether it is in the field of culture, and we are also very often asking to be allowed to enter into conciliation around which there is not always an equal desire for the alternative to enter into conciliation. But we are happy to join in a new energy reconciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155729	Sir. Carsten Kudsk, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155732	It was a real, really exciting and interesting speech where many areas were affected. But where is the alternative in an area that everyone is talking about, namely immigration policy? It was as if the immigration policy were not dealt with at all. What is the alternative to foreign policy and the current government basis? Are there any of these things that the alternative would like to support?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155800	Perhaps this is because we are parties that are also concerned with other problems. In fact, we believe that a real political position should be taken on green conversion and the public sector. We don't just yell at foreigners every time we talk politics. We believe that it is absolutely essential for the Danish side to be one hundred per cent firm on international agreements. One hundred per cent must be convinced that we will only solve these challenges with, for example, the refugee situation through international cooperation. We think it is a pity that some things have been mentioned in the government's constitution that indicate that there is a real dispute with some of the very good international conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155846	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155849	The rapporteur points out, and it is true that it is probably important to comply with the conventions. But we also have a problem if we suddenly get a lot of pressure on our borders. And an asylum brake is being put in place which allows you to close off, and then you have to look at the relationship with the conventions. We also have situations with criminals who choose to come to Denmark and get asylum, and then they live on tolerated residence because we cannot send them back. Where's the alternative in this question? Do you also believe that criminals should be sent back, and do you also support a possible asylum brake?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155927	No, we're not. The alternative is in favour of the international agreements, because the point of international agreements is precisely that we must all safeguard them. Denmark cannot stand by and say that we are now turning our backs on it for five minutes, but of course all other countries still have to comply with them. It is totally madness to think that we can turn our backs on international conventions in the area of refugees and then believe that the rest of the world countries do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155955	Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205155958	Several have thanked for the good and undogmatic speech, and I would like to join them and say that it was really exciting. One thing I listened to with great interest was the section on debureaucratisation. There I would like to hear a little more about the position of the alternative in relation to some of the acquis that we have, which has grown very large and very, very incalculable. Many of them need expert assistance in order to understand, for example. In the field of employment, social affairs, etc. Is the alternative prepared, on the basis of such legal or democratic considerations, to go further into work to simplify these acquis?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205160041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205160042	Oh, my God. We think it should be a bottom-up task right now, because we know that all the parties in the Folketing are actually interested in doing something about this. Some of this has to be looked at in terms of legislation, but a lot of it is also about practice. And there we have to send a signal from in here, both to the municipalities, that we do not hit them in the head when we first release them, but also to the public employees, that there is indeed a trust. So that we don't believe in this zero error culture, where you instantly hit people on top of your head and make a new rule every time there's a mistake, because mistakes happen when there's people involved. Instead, we can go out and help look at how to make things better in the future. And it should be a task that we all took on us in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205160120	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205160125	A large number of actors are mentioned which could do better. One actor who was only just mentioned at the end was the Folketing. Could I entice the rapporteur to comment a little more on what the Folketing might do to reduce the regulatory burden and complexity?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205160145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205160147	First of all, I think that the Folketing, together with the government, should go through everything that lies, and that is a huge piece of work. It is not just something that can be achieved in a week or less. The second is, of course, to start assessing, when we make new legislation, whether new rules are included and whether they are appropriate. Because all bureaucracy is not bad. This also helps to ensure some control tools. Every time we really have to critically assess and just look at the legislation whether there is something here that is inappropriate and then let us get it tampered out. You could imagine there was a regular group in here looking at these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205160220	Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205160222	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance has said in the past about the ceiling on cash aid that it is stigmatizing and ungrateful. Those are hard words, considering that a family with a mother and father and two children actually has 23,200 kroner. paid each month. I would like to ask the Liberal Alliance, no, sorry, the alternative, where the level should be in order to be satisfied.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205160307	That was close. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205160310	I do not know if I should ask the Foreign Minister what to say now. However, I can at least reply on behalf of the Alternative and, as can be seen in our draft budget, we would like to roll back the ceiling on cash aid, the 225-hour rule and the integration allowance. In fact, I also think it is a strange quiz-like way of debating exactly what the amount should be. It depends, of course, on what is involved in housing costs and what else is involved in expenses, how many children there are, etc. We can't stand in here playing these numbers where it's gonna be a lottery, and then you have the record full at some point. So we have to raise the level of conversation about these things that are serious. I know we have different views on what is good, but let us now go where we talk about the substance and how we help people in their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205160355	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205160356	After all, it is difficult to disagree, and I am also sorry that I was able to say to the Liberal Alliance on the alternative. But it's the end of the day, including in the Assembly Hall. But that does not change the fact that there is precisely a serious problem. And the alternative has been in favour, and it is also in the proposal here to the Finance Act that you want cash aid without counterclaims. And if the debate is to be qualified, and you like to report it hard and say that we are not satisfied with this, and we would like that to be different, then it is precisely to qualify the debate to take it seriously when we ask where the level should then be, when it seems that you do not agree with where the government has laid the cutting surface.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205160435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205160436	As we write, we will roll back the cash aid ceiling to where it was before the government came to. We would like to make cash assistance without counterclaims, because we believe that all the resources put in by the public authorities to control people at all ends and edges I was about to say something you cannot, and certainly not with this President, are funds that you could spend on helping people by strengthening them in their qualifications and being skilled mentors who can help them on the public side. And that's really what we're preoccupied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205160506	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205160510	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. After all, I have also seen with excitement and interest the very ambitious financial law proposal that the alternative has put forward. I also see that there are many similarities in relation to SF's policy. There are so many things we can agree on. But as my colleague Mr. Jacob Mark also mentioned, however, we lacked something in the area of welfare. It is an ambitious proposal that the alternative has come up with, there is a great deal of money at stake, and on the vast majority of stretches we agree. But would the rapporteur not like to go a little further into some of these areas of welfare, on which I hear that we are quite agreeable, in other words, in relation to children, in relation to the elderly, health, schools and so on.? There was little mention of that here. But where is the money gonna come from to lift this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205160614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205160616	Well, we have gone in and looked at it and said: how is it that we can create greater equality, that is, reduce inequality in society? And there we have ended up with a number of things in relation to social benefits and what we want to roll back all the way, and a stop to the regulation of rates and so on, and then we want to strengthen the field of education, for example. It is clear that we have tried to look at what would be needed to bring about real change. As Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen knows, we would be happy to work together always if you had some specific things. We actually believe that we can do schools, children's institutions, etc. much better also by just removing all the bureaucracy that is, all the rules that are, about the work you do out there, and then leaving the money on the institutions. After all, we do not want to debureaucratize to take the money out and make top tax concessions. In fact, we would like them to work in the areas where they are being saved.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205160709	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205160712	Well, we agree with that, and we have now also spoken so much debureaucratisation both today and in general that one has to wonder why the Folketing has not done anything about this long ago. But I also hope that the rapporteur agrees with me that it costs money to have a certain number of educators, a certain number of nurses, a certain number of SOSUs. Now we have talked a lot about the conditions of the elderly today and this now world-famous nursing home. The point of that nursing home is that it is extremely much more expensive than municipal nursing homes. I would like to stress that if you are to have the kind of nursing home that our Minister for the Elderly has led and where I think it has been really exciting to have been older, it costs some more money. At least that's what we can see. That is why I also hope that the alternative with us will look at how we can get the lift and at the same time debureaucratise. Maybe it's both that need to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205160812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205160813	That is the whole point. I fully agree with that. That is the whole point of our financial legislation, for example, with the priority institution that we have also proposed in this Chamber, where we have calculated that some 3 billion can be found. kr. by 2020, and we will reinvest them in the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205160838	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205160844	I am very relieved that it was Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen who was asking before me, because I know that the alternative has some rules that two men should not ask questions in a row. I would like to ask a few questions about security policy. In relation to Denmark's efforts in Syria and Iraq, the alternative is against our military engagement down there. I'd like to hear from Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist wanted to explain why the Alternative believes that it is wrong for us to fight Islamic State, which commits genocide, mass rape, cultural destruction and is out to wipe out all those who do not follow their interpretation of Islam. Why is it that the alternative does not believe that Danish soldiers are doing a good job down there in fighting the evil that the Islamic State stands for?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205160934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205160936	It is because we do not believe in solving the situation in Syria, for example, by sending more bombs down there; there are plenty of bombs in Syria. We believe that these are other things that need to be done. In addition, we have been discussing what kind of mandate we are on, and we are therefore very much in favour of the international mandates, and there we think we have difficulty in seeing what kind of mandate we in Denmark are going in to take part in bombings in Syria. So there is plenty to do in relation to the absolutely terrible situation we see in Syria and Iraq, for example, with the Islamic State, but it is not always the case that more bombs make peace, sometimes more bombs actually just cause more deaths.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205161016	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205161019	Now, of course, there is a little speculation, but if you try to put yourself in the place of the victims of the Islamic State, in other words the people who are exposed to the atrocities, genocide, mass rapes, etc., Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist saw that they want us to bomb the Islamic State, or believe Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, that they want us to try an alternative path and then let them die in the meantime? I mean, how many people are gonna die? How many victims must there be for the Islamic State before you think it is right to use military force to stop what is going on down there?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205161054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205161056	In fact, I believe that the victims will be pleased that we are actively in favour of trying to solve the atrocities that are happening down there. I'm not gonna stand here and tell you who's gonna die and not die. I simply think it is too ugly a level to take down that debate. Where is it that we can make a difference? We can do this by ensuring, for example, that the Islamic State cannot make money. In order to wage war, money must be spent, and with the wars they wage, they must get a lot of money from countries, so let us go in and do something about some of the things that actually cut them off from being able to make the atrocities they are doing instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205161128	Sir. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205161134	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. The alternative is a party that is in favour of local self-government and believes that decisions are best taken closest to citizens in the first sustainable part. Can the rapporteur give us a few words on regional responsibility for maternity departments and on the care of the elderly in regions and municipalities? Who actually has the responsibility and finger on the pulse and perhaps also the responsibility when something goes wrong? Is it a matter in here, or is it something that best lies where you are responsible?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205161213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205161215	It's the clean-up I talked to the Liberal Alliance about before. We will see what rules we have pushed down the area before we start asking where the responsibility lies. We believe that the public sector must be set free. We would like each institution to be able to work with the children they have, or the elderly who are at the nursing home, and to find the right solutions right out at the institution. Then we will also have to look critically at what we have made of rules that they have to live up to. How do we create a much wiser framework for what to live up to and somehow evaluate it? But I fully agree that responsibility lies out there. Then we should be good at not hitting people in the head when there is a mistake, but helping and finding solutions to it instead. We're not always quite good there. We often are if something happens in a public institution that is not good enough. Then we hit them immediately in the head, and then a rule is made either municipal, regional or state rather than helping them not to happen again.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205161320	The questioner? He will not use his second remark, I see. Nor is there any obligation to speak. There's a right to talk. Then I would like to thank Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist for the effort. And we would like to ask the next rapporteur to come up here, and that is Mr. Morten Østergaard, on behalf of the Radical Left. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205161348	My four-year-old son has had a little trouble with what's yesterday and what's tomorrow. But the other day his ear fell to him, for he said: Well, tomorrow is a day we haven't tried yet. And he is quite right about that, and I would almost think that all the new ministers are exactly experiencing it every day at the moment, and congratulations to them. For tomorrow is a day we haven't tried yet, and for us in the Folketing it's an opportunity to make a difference for those who have it harder than ourselves and those who come after ourselves. On such a long day of debate here in the Danish Parliament you might ask yourself whether this is where we make the biggest difference and where we should look for opportunities to dance a little ritual tribal dance. The government sits to sit, the opposition has no plans, let us set up a committee or call the minister in consultation. It is no one's fault; the populists, the media, the djøfs. It is our own fault if we spend our time fighting each other instead of fighting for the future. So my appeal to the Prime Minister and his new government is therefore also: now seek cooperation instead of isolation; reach out for the brave choices rather than the light ones. On the radical side, we are ready. We are firmly convinced that the future is something we create when we are driven by ambition and not by fear. That is why I am going to use my speaking time today to talk about something of which my heart is full and which, unfortunately, the government basis is not so full, namely education. The uncontested crowning example of a political decision that shaped the future was probably the introduction of compulsory education in 1814 and almost 100 years later the unitary school as the basis for the primary school we have today. It is the primary school that gives the right to receive education, regardless of who you are, the belief that equal access to education is the main way to equal opportunities for all, and perhaps so crucial is that when we learn together across our background and upbringing, we also form the basis for us to live together in trust. For us in the Radical Left, primary school is a matter of heart. Not least when it comes to creating opportunities for those children who have had a difficult start in life, primary school is absolutely crucial. That is why it was also with increased interest that I listened when, when the Prime Minister announced the government's basis, he indicated that the government would take action right there to improve social mobility. It was in many ways sweet music in the ears of a proud spelt-eating radical circle teacher. Then a little tinnitus hyletone came in anyway, because when we reached Thursday and the statement from the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister said, and I quote: "We will encourage schools that have many professionally weak pupils to do something that works to raise the level of those pupils. We understand that this is an additional quality pool, where the 100 schools with the greatest challenges only get more resources if they can demonstrate that the academically weak pupils have learned more. The Prime Minister refers to his so-called Løkkebag to the health care system. I find it a little difficult to see the parallel between new hips and social mobility, and although I may sometimes be accused of being a talking spreadsheet, I find it hard to see how this extra quality pool is going to be. A primary school is from 0th to 9th grade. Is it over 10 years that we have to prove that we are doing something for the students and moving them professionally? No, I guess not. Is it like Løkkesbagen for health care every year, a little test on the first day of school and then another one on the last one? If, but only if, then, it has progressed, you can get your expenses refunded to the additional teachers you have hired. If this has not been achieved, then they must be dismissed again. And if some people want to walk new paths with some public innovation, new educational opportunities, we must hope that things are going well, because if someone finds out when they experiment that something didn't work so well, it's on their own account, because then you don't get a share in the Løkkesbag. But the question that really is most pressing is: Does the Prime Minister seriously believe that the problem in the schools at risk is the lack of motivation among employees and pupils to do something that works with the Prime Minister in order to raise the level of pupils? I have recently visited a number of these schools. Most recently I was again past the Hans Christian Andersen School in Vollsmose. To the Prime Minister's surprise, I can tell you that there is a great deal to be done, but there is certainly no lack of motivation. Here you only meet dedicated teachers, educators, school leaders, even volunteers, who help. Here you meet a deeply professional approach, where learning differentiation is not something you talk about on festive occasions, but is the focal point so you can do school for the students you have, with the problems many of them have and a lot of people bring with you from home. If the teachers were not motivated to do something extra for children with special needs, they would have long gone away from the schools that the Prime Minister is talking about. That is why I would like to say to the Prime Minister that he must stop viewing primary school as a factory. Let's get together about the resources to do better for the children who need it most. This is the best investment we can make in the future. It does not require a new state bureaucracy, IT systems and incentive systems to find out. In the Radical Left, we want to put action behind words. We have put forward a proposal to increase the retirement age for those who are able to work more and, on the other hand, to give better conditions to those who are worn out to retire. Investing for more money and we will spend it on children's upbringing, education and investment in research. We call it a generational gift, because it is a gift from us that can, to the next generation: more educators, better schools, more quality in education and more research • everything that matters for what we should live on in the future and how we should live together. It is not just wages and taxes that determine whether you want to work. Most people probably feel that good education and the right skills also mean something for the desire to work, and the statistics clearly show this. The better you are trained, the better you are associated with the labour market. So the government's ambition for tax reform is not enough. We also need to think about education reform and be clear in advance that, like tax reform, it actually costs money. If you want the future, it's not free. On the basis of a principle of always being optimistic, I hope that when it comes to education, a new government also means new policy, even if this year's financial agreement between the government parties and the Danish People's Party does not give much to have that optimism in. Just like the previous year, there are savings on training and tax relief. Cheaper cars and lower housing taxes must be financed by future generations. As a whole new thing, this time the benefits to the pupils in the production schools are being cut, even though they should have a premium for maintaining the education system. Then comes the new so-called training ceiling, which means that young people who follow the call for training with job opportunities are suddenly denied access, for example. a professional training if they have one in advance. Now the engineer can no longer become a school teacher, just because the Social Democratic Party, the Left and the Danish People's Party could not find any money for the allowance agreement they made last autumn. I have proposed, together with the FTF, that the parties behind the training ceiling take a period of reflection and find the money elsewhere. I hope there will be listening, not least for the sake of the many young people who are currently experiencing the door slamming right in front of them on their way through the education system. So optimism is not helped either by the fact that the VLAK government has once again decided to kick-start the green harvester and pull out extra billions of the planned investments towards 2025. Despite the increasing number of children, young people, and older people in the years to come, the government will spend less money on them. I am curious to find out how it has been achieved that more words about promises and visions mean less investment in our community. That is not ambitious enough. But the Radical Left is also ready to ease the tax on labour, because the tax has basically been screwed together for a very long time with too much tax on work and automatic tax discounts, among other things. on housing. Now we've come a long way. I welcome the agreement made by the three government parties, the Social Democratic Party, and the Danish People's Party a month ago, which was the first step towards putting the tax freeze in the grave. It was a tax freeze which has favoured the richest homeowners and has an unstable housing market in its conscience. I would like to commend the parties for finally becoming wiser in this area after 15 years. In the Radical Left, we want Denmark to remain an open and curious country towards our surrounding world. But if we want the world around us, we must also give something back. We must lift our share of responsibility where we can. It is simply too poor that Denmark has refused to take its share of the world's quota refugees. The Prime Minister argues that the number of asylum seekers is the lowest for a long time. Why then leave it to other countries to take the weakest refugees from crowded refugee camps in the vicinity? We are listening to the desire for a new asylum system. Of course, if refugees are to be allowed to apply for asylum from the neighbouring regions, this requires a common EU agreement to carry out the integration task in a spirit of solidarity. That is why we welcome it if it really is a change of course. It's about time. We would also like to see a change of course for border controls, because the resources used are not at all in line with the efforts made. It has become a system of symbolism alone. It is not recommended by the police, but it costs for the trade that should flow freely across borders. Border controls make us neither richer nor safer, on the contrary. Throughout the Western world, decisions are now being taken driven by fear of the future over the heads of young people who have to live with the consequences. It was not the young British who voted them out of the European Union, and it was not the young who brought Trump to power. They had voted for Hillary Clinton. I think that the future deserves a voice... a clear voice that believes that the future is something we create when we are driven by ambition rather than fear.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205162414	Thank you. There are nine well-intentioned colleagues who are ready to make brief comments, and the first is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205162422	Thank you for that, President. Now that mr. Christian Juhl has sat down in the chair, and if not the same party, I will take on the same interest. However, it is not about the objectives of the world this time, but about the ambitions of the radicals on development aid. I understand from the Radicals that it must be increased to 1%. of gross national product. It costs 68.4 billion for whole shoe lengths. kr. Until 2025. Is this something that should happen overnight, and if so, how will it be financed?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205162502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205162503	Yes, it reminds me in some way of a debate we have had, but we can easily take it back. In fact, we have already presented this in the election campaign, when the Prime Minister called it Masochisme, a bid for a 2025 plan, and of it you can see that we will gradually increase development aid, but not to 1%. in 2025. That's not enough money.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205162524	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205162525	Roger that, and thank you for that. However, I understand that some of the areas that the rapporteur stands for, in other words, what concerns future investment and green conversion and education, together with development aid, must have approx. 40 billion. So that's right, there's a piece up to this 68.4 billion. How much is going to be spent on development aid, and how high will it be in 2025?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205162552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205162554	We will gradually increase development aid year by year and we have not determined at what rate it should be. It also depends on the opportunities that arise, but it is clear that in our plan there is an opportunity to increase development aid every year, and we will do so if we are given power, as we have observed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205162613	I'm sorry I forgot to tell you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen is from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party. I'll remember that next time. The next is Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205162628	Thank you very much. We can see now how the new government also holds onto these threats of wanting to cut back on the SU, for it is written to the Left, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance, students must have about 20%. less in the SU, and they also risk losing the sixth SU year, which allows for more flexible training. This will probably mean that fewer young people will be able to complete their education. This will particularly affect young people who do not have some very rich parents who can help them, and it will make it difficult for a lot of students to pay their rent. So I think it is very, very important that we put these SU cuts well and thoroughly in the grave for the next election. And that's why I'd like to ask Mr. Morten Østergaard, who has also spoken a great deal about education, whether we can count on our being united here on the SU issue too, and that the Radical Left will not help to cut back on the SU, either in the conciliation circle or with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205162728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205162729	Yes, it is also a debate we have had before, and I think I answered the same thing at the time, namely that together on the SU we are not, because Enhedslisten has never been a part of the SU group and has never helped to shoulder responsibility for our having a great SU system in Denmark. One is always more fond of the last SU model than the current one. But I can say that, in the case of the Radical Left, it is the case that we want to invest in our children and young people and in education, and that we therefore have no proposals for an SU reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205162801	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205162802	Well, I am really glad that there is no proposal for a reform of the Socialist Group from the Radical Left. I have taken note of that too. And I think it is very important to invest in education. However, I would just like the rapporteur to make it clear that a good education system is based not only on investment in education but also on investment in our SU. Can we not say that we are united towards the next elections, that there should be no deterioration in the SU? Because then we can actually put a stop to this, too. I would like the rapporteur to give a clearer signal on this and to say that this is also true of defending the SU.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205162839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205162840	After all, there is an SU board of which Enhedslisten is not a part. I fully acknowledge the interest in the SU area, but it has never been carried far enough to take responsibility for the SU system. That is why my basic approach is that we continue to want a broad settlement on the SU. We have no proposals to degrade it. What we want is to take part in negotiations that, overall, increase the opportunity to invest in education and we therefore propose doing so with a generational gift from all of us who can, in the labour market, rather than cutting the SU.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205162919	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205162921	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. The Radical Left is, after all, a great advocate of European cooperation and wants more cooperation, even as far as I can hear the rapporteur's speech. Now, on Wednesday, we will deal first with a motion for a resolution by the SF on a financial tax. This is something we have been discussing for many years, but after Brexit the negotiations have really begun. And the enhanced cooperation between the ten countries that are cooperating on this has just received some help and some input, etc. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). So, the new development has given the Radical Left other ideas in support of Denmark joining this enhanced cooperation, where countries like both Germany and France are involved, precisely to ensure that the financial sector will also contribute? The money that comes into the Danish Treasury is estimated to be about 7 billion. kr. Every year, and that money can be spent either on welfare or on lowering the tax or on something quite different.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205163033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205163034	I think I will say, as a minister, following the discussion in the circle of countries with enhanced cooperation quite closely over a period of time, that if that is where you want to find the funding for your ideas, then I think you have to arm yourself with patience, because things are going extremely slowly. For those countries recognise the same thing we did, namely that it is really difficult to make an island in the European Union within a place where capital moves freely where some countries decide on such a tax without others being involved. And that is why my answer is the same: No, we do not think it makes sense to set up a system where you can almost certainly count on the fact that activities that you had received in Denmark will end up elsewhere. But if one could agree with the broad circle, preferably globally, it would of course put the matter differently. I would just like to stress that what I think is most pressing is not to introduce new taxes, but to ensure that the taxes already due are paid, that we combat tax havens, and that we cooperate even more closely in tax matters to ensure that tax agreements such as some of those we have seen some countries make, among other things. Luxembourg and Ireland. And I think that is a much faster way to increase the state's revenue than the other one that I regard as at least a somewhat long-term project.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205163151	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205163152	After all, the rapporteur has not been a minister for the last six months, and it is here recently that this has been speeded up. That is at least what we are hearing, namely that because of Brexit, but also other things, the negotiations and discussions on it have started again. The Commission, and we also have a Danish Commissioner, is very actively involved, and then I thought it might make it possible for the Radicals to reconsider their position. This isn't about overtaxing some sector. It is about putting a micro-tax on a sector that is so much helping to destabilise our economy when things go crazy. So it is not only to say that the sector must also contribute, but it is also about stabilising that part of what can become most hysterical • which I think were the words Mogens Lykketoft used earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205163249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205163251	I think there are relatively divided views as to whether such a modest tax will have that effect. However, what is at the heart of the problems of the countries that have enhanced cooperation in the field of financial taxation is, of course, what their relationship should be with the countries outside because they are living in an area, the European Union's internal market, where capital moves freely. Therefore, what the discussion was always about was not so much what happens between the countries that have the enhanced cooperation it gives itself but what happens when the money moves between countries that are not part of the enhanced cooperation and those that are. I am aware that no solution has yet been found because it has not yet been established that taxes can be levied in other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205163331	Sir. Carsten Kudsk, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205163334	The rapporteur talks about the desire to increase the retirement age. I did a lot of digging about that, because in many places you talk about the grey gold, and you meet really, very many places people with very, very long educations, that is, the grey gold that you say is really attractive, but can't get a job as such. So I would like to ask rapporteurs: what are the radicals going to do to make these people feel that they can get a job when raising their retirement age?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205163405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205163406	Whether the retirement age is 67 or 68 years old in 2025, how we ensure that there is also a labour market for our seniors is a very relevant issue. What is then comforting is that it is not the case that there is galloping over-unemployment among our seniors in the labour market. But it may be true that it can be harder to get back if you have only once come out. But what we saw when we, together with the Danish People's Party, amended the early retirement agreement was that for 90 per cent it just means that you continue in the work you have. We have an unemployment rate of less than 5% in Denmark. That's why I always think it's a little too bad when you like to take the few hostage to the many. What we want is for all those who are on the labour market and who have the ability to work to continue for an additional year if they now have more than 10 years for their retirement age. This will allow us to invest in the upbringing of their children and grandchildren. In fact, I think there will be a great desire for this, at least when you look at the many savings that are currently being made on our education sector. But, of course, this will always have to be discussed, no matter what the retirement age is, how we get the best opportunities for our seniors in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205163523	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205163524	As I have to interpret the answer given by the rapporteur, if we have people who already have very physical hard work and are worn out, then they have to have this faster early retirement pension, which is possible today. But do you plan to go out to employers and businesses and introduce quotas and say to them: you have to keep your employees? For there are examples of people who are 59 or 60 years of age being fired, and then they can get some consultancy job of one year's duration. So I would like to know: how do you want to send a signal, including to employers, that these people need to keep something longer because you want to raise the pensionable age?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205163603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205163604	I think I can be a little in doubt about how many of those with hard physical work are fired and offered a 1-year consulting job. Nevertheless, I still think that the issue is relevant enough. Let me just give one example from my rapporteur's speech. Let us say that you decide that with the votes of the Danish People's Party you say to people who have an education and want to take someone else, that it is the case that there should not just be a ceiling on receiving the education. No, you can't even, if you had the money for it, get to pay for it yourself. This is the bill that the Danish People's Party will vote through in here. If you do that, you prevent people from retraining, and that is exactly what is needed in people who have a job they can see they cannot go on until they retire, whether it is when they are 67 or 68 years old. Therefore, I think that the Danish People's Party should discuss with itself, if you are not well and thoroughly in the process of reducing the opportunities for those who most need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205163653	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205163656	I would like to ask a few questions about the policy of the Radicals on foreigners, where Conservatives and Radicals are quite far apart. I have never really understood how the Radicals can be so carefree about the large non-western immigration, which has changed Denmark quite dramatically over recent decades. What I want to know is where the pain line goes for the Radical Left. Because I've never heard the Radical Left put a figure on it. So, how many people do we think we can take every year in Denmark to make it sustainable? How many non-Western immigrants do Radical Left think we can handle in Denmark, so that integration can still work?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205163741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205163742	Thank you for that question. I am also in a good habit of answering that question, I think I can safely say. But it is true that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov has never heard such a number either from me or from anyone else in the debate. I've been discussing this with Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, with Mrs Mette Frederiksen and with the Prime Minister, all as a • and no one has such a number. And that's because it's a pointless question. I mean, are we talking about Indian computer engineers? Is that you, sir? Rasmus Jarlov has in mind as someone who likes to have a ceiling on how many we can handle? Then I think we should invite the Conservative business club, we know C-Business, or what it is called "at a meeting," and then ask companies if they think it is a problem that restrictions have been made to attract skilled, well-qualified people outside Europe's borders to Danish companies. Ask whether there is a growth in the possibility of attracting foreign labour, even if it will appear in the statistics on non-Western immigration, as Mr. Rasmus Jarlov is talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205163840	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205163842	So let us make it very concrete. It is true that there is a difference between how many we can take, depending on what type it is and how much they contribute to society and how they feel about falling into, etc. But if we start from the migration flow to Denmark, which has been the last 3-4 years. And there we know fairly well how the composition is such in terms of education and in terms of background, age, gender etc. If we look at the current, how big can it be in the Radical Left's view? How many can Denmark accept every year so that it is still sustainable and does not destroy the cohesion force and does not cause some social tensions in Denmark that we cannot understand?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205163925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205163927	Well, sir. Rasmus Jarlov: We are in the greatest humanitarian disaster since World War II. If it was possible for the countries themselves to decide how many asylum seekers they were given, then I am convinced that we had not set any kind of Denmark record in 2015, after we even had a government supported by the Conservative People's Party, which was elected on the grounds that there should be an emergency asylum stop. And never have we had so many refugees as after having a government that had been elected to make a stop. And that's because it's about how many refugees there are in the world. I do not know whether it is the view of the Conservative People's Party that we should look at this very much, in other words that it does not matter how many refugees there are, compared to how many we take in Denmark. It is a greater challenge to integrate more, the number matters. But it also matters that you take responsibility for the world in which you live. And I really think that should be a conservative virtue too.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205164016	Mrs. Christina Egelund of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205164018	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. My question is not at all polemical, it is totally bound in curiosity and sincere interest. The government's basis describes a new asylum system in which to look at the area of European alliance partners in order to set up the asylum system in a different way, in other words, in a more constructive and more rational way in the Liberal Alliance, where the intention is to stop traffic across the Mediterranean, so that asylum is sought in a third country. My question is this: is it an effort or direction that the Radical Left agrees with and will support?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205164054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205164055	I touched briefly on this in my rapporteur's speech, and I did so because we have followed the development of the discussion with interest. If what is being proposed in order to avoid the tragic things we see in the Mediterranean and the Aegean is that we should then be able to apply for asylum from the neighbouring regions to the major refugee disasters, then we think the idea is interesting, but it probably requires agreement on how the European Union will jointly deal with the refugees who will then be given asylum. If a single country did so, it would probably, I think, create a relatively great deal of pressure on one country. That is why it will require what we have been advocating all the way through, namely a common European approach to the flow of refugees, and if so, we would also prefer that matters be dealt with before people risk their lives. That is probably in the order in which it should be taken, and if it is also what I said, it is an expression of a real change of course in which it is taken, I think, because Denmark is clearly more interesting position, namely to cooperate more with the other EU countries to deal with refugees, then we put ourselves better, we put the refugees better, and we put Europe together better.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205164205	Sir. Marcus Knuth. Sorry, we're getting another question from the questioner, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205164215	Thank you. I think it is easy to implement this without necessarily harmonising the asylum rules in Europe. I can well imagine a centre in a third country where asylum is sought. There may then be a place where you apply for asylum in Denmark, then there may be another place where you apply for asylum in a group of countries that have agreed on your asylum rules. So just to clarify what is meant by this, I would say that it does not necessarily require the alignment of our asylum rules, but that it makes handling more rational. I hope that the Radical Left, with that clearing-up, will continue to support a new direction and a new course for asylum management, because that is what is needed, and I think we agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205164259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205164300	It can be said that if it has a humanitarian aim to prevent people from being taken by days trying to get out of the vicinity and if the only option is to throw themselves into the arms of smugglers, then we are always interested in it. If it is a question of seeing whether it is possible to wipe out the problem of refugees in other countries, then it is not so heroic, it has to be said, and I would just like to say that so far it is still the case that we are going to deal with asylum applications under the refugee convention, but there is not one for each country, there is only one convention. I still believe that the recognition rate in Syria is close to 90, and if we do not agree to distribute it, then I certainly do not think we should count on that being the way to fewer asylum seekers in Denmark, because I think we might be an interesting country to come to, as we have relatively low unemployment and high social security. That is why I would say that it is probably wiser to do so with other EU countries, which have a common understanding of how to tackle it in order to lift it in groups, rather than making it a coincidence.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205164402	Then we fought our way to sir. Marcus Knuth from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205164406	Thank you very much. And thank you to the rapporteur. I am here with the rapporteur's proposal for adoption, and that is interesting reading. It does not say much in concrete terms. It says something about strengthening our unique social model and things that I think we can all agree with, but there is nothing about the key areas, for example. the area of asylum. We have just seen how much is in this Chamber, and it wonders why it has not been mentioned at all. Is it because, unfortunately, only three of the Red Parties share this proposal for adoption that cannot agree on it? Is it because you're too far apart?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205164445	This is because, unfortunately, there is nothing new under the sun on the part of the government in that area. What is new, and which we have therefore taken note of, is that over a relatively short period we have come to a different assessment of what the need to invest in the Community is. I don't quite know what the explanation is. Maybe we'll learn more later in the day when the Prime Minister gets on the platform. At least I don't think that sir... Jakob Ellemann-Jensen was able to explain correctly what it is that no longer believes it is necessary to invest in the public sector when the demography is as it is. We think this is important to get our finger down on, because we would really like to work with the government to make some reforms that increase our room for manoeuvre. These are the ones I have talked about here, because then we can invest in education. But if we want to pursue an economic policy such as the one proposed by the government, it will mean that the savings that are currently raining down on our educational institutions will continue forever, because only demographic development will consume the resources allocated to common welfare. That's why I think it's important to have this discussion tested. In other words, if we take those decisions, should we not agree that the goal is not just to maintain or undermine current welfare, but that the goal is actually to develop it so that our children and young people have a better future?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205164607	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205164609	After all, it was the area of asylum that I asked about, and I did so, among other things, because the rapporteur said earlier that there must be a debate on immigration policy if, hypothetically, in the future, we are to be able to point to Mette Frederiksen as the head of a government. Can the rapporteur just clarify that? In other words, can the rapporteur guarantee that, before the Radicals could point to Mette Frederiksen, there would be relief in the field of foreigners?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205164636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205164637	Well, I do not think there is anything new about the Radical Left pointing to Mrs Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister. What I have said is that we are doing it because we want a different policy in many areas, including in the field of foreigners. That is why, of course, we expect us to have a good discussion on this at the time, and we have some experience that then we will find a common path, not a path that is ours in everything, but which is in some way a compromise between the views that exist. That is not unlike what we have seen in recent weeks, between the three parties that are now forming government. So it should not be unfamiliar to the Left either.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205164717	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205164720	Thank you. One of the things in the new government base that may be most worrying is this intention to outsource our welfare to such private welfare groups, that is to say, to let private groups come in and make money, withdraw profits from our kindergarten and nursing homes, etc. The Radical Left has historically been very critical of it. When the VK government wanted to privatise the kindergartens, Mrs Lone Dybkjær of the Radicals said: '... Frankly, we find it quite amazing that we should now suddenly start making private money for municipal money and then let them withdraw the money. It was quite acceptable if they stayed in kindergarten. I have nothing against private institutions. I'm not ideological like that. But I'm against private people being able to withdraw money... In other words, yes to self-serving institutions and such things, but no to profit-loving children. In fact, I would just like to ask, because I believe that this will be a major political issue in the years to come: is it still the position of the Radicals, namely, no profit in kindergartens and in nursing homes, so that in the citizen's welfare we should not be able to enter and withdraw the money that taxpayers invest in quality and employees and lead them to, for example. a group of owners or a fund or shareholders, or whatever it may be? Is that still the position of the Radical Left as it was then?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205164835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205164837	Yes, it is certainly a discussion that we have had many times. I have also had the opportunity, as Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, to publish figures on how municipalities use private actors in welfare and the degree of outsourcing. And it turns out that it is particularly in this Chamber that it will be an ideological issue, because out in the real world it is typically the social democratic mayors who outsource the most. That is why I feel that this question must be dealt with in the individual municipality: what are some players to be drawn into? If you want to drag them in for cleaning, you want to drag them into something else, you have to do it. I don't want to force that down on anyone. However, we do not have any proposals to change legislation in this area, if that is what is meant.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205164921	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205164923	Okay, even if you voted against the bill at the time, you accept today that you can go in if the municipalities so wish and establish profit children's gardens. It could be the ISS that ran all the kindergarten in a municipality. When I ask, it is because we have suffered from a horror example from Sweden, where this really was opened up with some very, very violent consequences both for quality, but also in the sense that millions of dollars were smoked in tax havens. But I note that the Radical Left is no longer opposed to it. So far, so good. What I can then also hear is, and I am really glad that as I understand it, and I would like to confirm that, we do not want the municipalities to be forced to do this. Because what lies in the government base is that you want to introduce mandatory targets, and it's about wanting to get out and have these big bundles, so that it really gets interesting for the big corporations to get in. They're not in today. Private kindergartens are typically ideal small local kindergartens. We don't have the corporations inside. But is it the view of the Radicals that we do not support the mandatory targets to allow private people to come in and make money from our kindergartens?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205165022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205165023	After all, it was we who abolished it when we were in government, and we did so because we do not like this type of coercion. In other words, I have often had the discussion with some of the actors who are there and who are, of course, richly present in the municipalities. Sir. Pelle Dragsted makes it sound as if there are no private actors in our daycare institutions, but I think that in the vast majority of our daycare institutions there are private people involved in cleaning and in some places in cooking etc. And I just don't have that ideological way of distinguishing. But I can say that I do not think it should be forced to do so by the municipalities. I think the municipalities should make their own decisions, and I can see that when you look into the real world, out there, where those decisions are made, it is not an ideological issue, because it is actually the case that the social democratic mayors are the most outsourced.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205165112	Sir. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205165114	Thank you. Now the radical party leader spoke about the primary school, and I shall seize it immediately. It's an area that's close to me. I think it's exciting, and we talk too little about it. One of the things talked about in the primary school debate is these school days and the length of them. There are many municipalities where the schools have so long days that it actually breaks with the intentions we had because they plan in the wrong way. In the SF we have tried to bring together a majority in the conciliation circle so that it should be easier to make school days a little shorter if you have two adults in the remaining hours. Unfortunately, I have had a little difficulty getting the Radical Left on board. Is this an idea to which the Radicals could perhaps look a little more open in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205165205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205165207	I think that one of the very important intentions of the school reform was the desire to give a much greater freedom in the individual school, and so far in the individual classroom, to organise things themselves, but that is one of the things that has gone the whistle in the implementation. It has become a kind of school management reform where much more is being managed than anyone intended. I think that the discussion that Mr. Jacob Mark refers to the issue of supporting education, where what we are watching for is the intention of the open school, that is to say, a school where the community is being drawn in and where people are actively going out. And it also takes a few hours to do that. That is why the intention is, not with the wish that there should be no two-teacher hours. That is something we should be happy to do, and we would also like to prioritise more resources for it, but we are concerned that the intention of the open school is something. That is why our draft budget will also see that we have set aside several hundred million kroner to contribute, if I may say so, to lubricate the chain for that part of the school reform where it is obviously lagging behind.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205165311	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205165312	The open school is a very good idea, but in many places it is not really possible because there are not enough resources for it. And what is really good, I think, about this idea of making the days a little shorter, and then having two adults with it, is precisely that there are resources to invite people into school, but also that you can get out of school and visit institutions. You have to be two adults to go out. What we are proposing in concrete terms is that it should be left to the schools to say: if we want to make the day of school one hour shorter, in return for two adults in the hours, we may do so. Today it is the responsibility of the municipal council. Is this something that the Radicals want to contribute to, precisely to give the schools that flexibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205165351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205165352	What we have put forward in our draft budget is, of course, with a little the same purpose, but in a different way. Because we have allocated resources to actually using the time allocated to it, for example. to make the ideas of the open school a reality. So that is another way to go, you might say, to achieve the same goal. But I really do not think that the disagreement is greater than that we can talk about. What we have a desire for is basically to give as much freedom as possible in the individual school, in the individual classroom, but in respect of the fact that there was a sense in this way that we wanted an open school and that we wanted a varied school day. Therefore, we are a little aware that we do not make decisions that make you just compress it all and look at it big with the fact that there should be movement every day, and look at the fact that we should have the community in. We'll be sure we get that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205165445	Thank you. Then we take a terrific blue final sprint, which is three Leftmen who still want to speak. We'll start with the first one, and that's sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205165456	Thank you. The President forgot to say Denmark's Liberal Party, but apparently it is only on specially selected occasions. I would like to pay tribute to the political leader of the Radical Left, Mr. Morten Østergaard. The other day I saw the party's Christmas card on social media, and I realized that you actually have a sense of humor. It came as a complete surprise, and it is of course gratifying that, as we approach the feast of hearts, we can see that, after all, there is also a humorous person hiding in the middle of Danish politics. I have always considered Mr. Morten Østergaard as a man who was particularly careful to hit the facts. That is why I am a little sorry for some of the remarks, Mr President. Morten Østergaard started by presenting his otherwise excellent rapporteur's speech. The first relates to the root cause that hunts and plagues many of the ordinary people who live in the country's municipalities. Take e.g. a 140 m2 villa in Lyngby-Taarbæk, where the root cause has increased by 180%. over the last 6-8 years. You might think that's fair, but I have to ask sir. Morten Østergaard, how it is believed that a freeze for the reason, so that next year you pay only 45,000 kroner, is a generation theft.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205165607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205165609	Thanks for the nice words. It is true that we generally try to keep it a little hidden, that we have a sense of humor, but sometimes it simply does not allow itself to be suppressed. But I think it's worth not kidding about the reason. I have experience of that. The reason why it's a little funny is that, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt asks, of course, that when I proposed in the election campaign that we should allow all housing taxes to be accompanied by price developments instead of what people had experienced, namely the galloping root cause which came under the tax freeze which Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt has stood guard over as the only blessing to the homeowners' safety, so I said: No, should we not just let it go with prices? And then I promise that the reaction came quickly: there was no limit to the uncertainty it created for the homeowners. Now we have an initiative from the Left, while you were still away alone in government, and what is being proposed? Yes, it is suggested the same thing, however, plus that one would also have a little increase in the value of property owners with the frozen portion of property value tax and land tax. We have then said that if the government wants to go so hard on the landowners, then we must take it with us, and we will then vote on it. That is why my point is simply that it is not, after all, that you freeze the ground debt; you could have just hastened to make the agreement we have talked about and phase it a little faster. No, that's where you take the money from the generational theft. Jakob Engel-Schmidt. It is, of course, that it is from all the high schools in the country, all the country's hf-education programmes, all the country's higher education programmes, htx and hhx, all those who are currently sitting and turning around every twenty-five cents, because they decided that the ground blame should now be frozen. And yes, it's a generation theft.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205165753	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205165754	Yes, a new definition of the word "generational theft " has emerged. A 180 per cent increase in taxes will be a generation theft if it is also 180 per cent next year. I don't think we'll agree on that, sir. Morten Østergaard, and that is not the intention either. I welcome the new sense of humor and have to ask about another element of the otherwise excellent speech of the political leader. Sir. Morten Østergaard mentioned that it was a major problem that the benefits of the country's production schools had been reduced. Would the rapporteur not be kind enough to tell me how it can be a problem for the benefit to be increased now if you, as a production school pupil, take vocational training and receive a pupil's salary? In the past, the benefits received were higher in a production school than could be obtained by moving on to vocational training. Where's the logic of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205165837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205165838	I don't know how much time mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt has spent in the country's production schools. It is a very special target group that we are talking about and, speaking of generation theft, you select the target group that gets a production school service because you consider the stay at the production school they come to as meeting and having a full 37 hours working week. Of course you do, if you are out as an apprentice, but nevertheless the point here is in relation to the SU you normally compare with the fact that this is a public service which they cannot complement with an income that any SU recipient can. That is why I think that production school pupils are really bad to use to finance a freezing of land or cheaper cars, or whatever the money is used for.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205165935	There should be no difference between the Left. Thank you, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left, Danish Liberal Party. We go to the next person from the same party, Mrs Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205165948	I'm sorry, I guess the President forgot to tell you where I came from. I have a question for the radical rapporteur, who says that the rapporteur has previously said to the Berlingske Tidende that the 2025 Social Democratic Plan is not suitable to provide an economic basis for a possible new government. I would ask the rapporteur to clarify what makes the plan inappropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205170017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205170018	It is because I believe that if we are to achieve the tasks ahead of us, we need more room for manoeuvre than what has already been set up. It then requires finding ways to increase the budgets of our educational institutions and our day institutions, because the changes we are facing require us to invest in the next generation. If you want to shield future generations from climate change, it requires us to invest in the green transition. And that is why I have said that with the ambitions that I know a new SR government would have, it would also require an economic policy that created more room for manoeuvre, and that is why it is for us the ambition that drives the work and the conclusion that there is more to be done than the room for manoeuvre that has been created.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205170108	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205170110	Would the rapporteur not like to clarify in more detail where it is that one is not ambitious enough. Where is it that Social Democracy is unambitious?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205170120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205170123	Yeah, but it's going to be review. What is the basis of our 2025 plan is, after all, the desire to be able to invest more in upbringing and education for children and young people. It takes more room for manoeuvre. And that is what we want to achieve, among other things. with our pension reform. If we do not want to reform or otherwise increase the room for manoeuvre, then we cannot afford to have the same ambitions. It is the ambitions that differ, and they will have to be high in my opinion, and that is why we also need to find the way to create the room for manoeuvre. We have indicated this, and it is not certain that it will necessarily be as we have said, but I am quite convinced that, regardless of who is in government, it will be true that the room for manoeuvre that has been created is not enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205170209	Then we come to the last brief remark, and that is from Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left, the Liberal Party of Denmark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205170216	Thank you, sir. President. I would just like to stick to what my colleague has said, so I would like to ask you a little more about the room for manoeuvre. It is typical that here in the rapporteur's speeches we hear a great deal about what we want to invest in, what we want to spend money on, and the rapporteur of the Radicals has also mentioned this. But could the rapporteur go a little further, since we really want to work with the current government to find this extra room for manoeuvre, if only through pension reforms, or will the rapporteur reveal where else this room for manoeuvre can be found?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205170302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205170303	When I proposed that we should stop spending our money on current tax rebates for the landowners and we should raise the retirement age five years earlier than planned, the present Prime Minister was the chairman of an opposition party, and then he considered it to be a mere masochism. That is why I think it might be a bit stiff if I stand here today and shoot in my shoes, that I am not willing to talk about where the money should come from. I mean, even my sense of humor isn't enough, I'd say.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205170342	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205170343	I know, of course, that the rapporteur has a sense of humor, and I myself am very fond of that. However, I would like the rapporteur to mention just a few more examples of where we can find the scope for all the investments that I can hear the rapporteur wishing to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205170400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205170401	If the government could find the courage to take a whole step instead of half a step in 2025 in terms of withdrawal, then there would be no need to make an SU reform, which was, of course, one of the things that separated the waters slightly from the Left's overall plan. And this is an honest matter for us, we think that we have been there in the area of the SU. Our proposal is therefore that, with reference to the change in life expectancy, we say that we all have to work an extra year if we have more than 10 years left on the labour market. Then we can invest 1 billion. kr. extra every year until 2025 in our education system. So, yes, that is primarily where we see it, but we come to all the negotiations called for by the government. In any case, I would like to say that we are particularly looking forward to the debate in which we have to put the tax freeze in the grave.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205170455	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Morten Østergaard from the Radical Left, Denmark's Social Liberal Party, and goes on to SF, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. And before she has the floor, I would like to say that we are counting on an evening break from 8 p.m. up here on the Chair table. 6:00 p.m. 19. It's more for the sake of your planning. Here you go, Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205170521	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his opening statement. This may surprise some, but on many points I actually agree with the Prime Minister. I agree with the Prime Minister's description of the state of affairs and wishes for the future. Denmark is a good country to live in, one of the world's best countries that others look at with recognition. There is mostly trust, respect and cooperation. We must, of course, safeguard our welfare societies, we must get investment going and create more good jobs throughout the country. Job creation is one of the good reasons why we must maintain and perhaps more specifically recapture the green leadership position. The Prime Minister is also right to say that we need European cooperation, while at the same time being critical when it challenges our social model. International cooperation and globalisation benefit Denmark, but not all Danes benefit from the benefits, for example. when they lose their good jobs or are pressed by social dumping. It is also true that it is a little difficult for me here to praise the Prime Minister over and over again, but I am glad that he is sitting here now and listening to the need for a huge boost to our education system, from primary to further education. More security is needed, both financially, but also in relation to shootings and other violence. We must make every effort to ensure that people are not sorted out and to help the people who get a crack and go down and out. But there are also things that I think the Prime Minister does not talk about in his speech, for example. poverty. There will be more poor people in Denmark. The line has never been longer for Christmas help. It very much undermines many of the things the Prime Minister talks about as the good thing about Denmark. For poverty and the risk of ending up in poverty are exactly the opposite of economic security. Perhaps poverty also means increased crime and thus less security for all of us. Nor was the Prime Minister talking about the growing inequality which, as I see it, challenges to a great extent the confidence, respect and willingness to cooperate which the Prime Minister rightly praises. Yes, Denmark is still away one of the most equal countries in the world, but only because inequality also increases in many other countries. Not many words were said by the Prime Minister about the climate crisis either. We have had a government that has so far adorned itself with the term green realism, but which has practiced black lack of realism. The climate crisis is a reality. Where the Prime Minister is seriously wrong is where his often excellent wishes for the future must be translated into politics. Because it becomes a policy that points in the very opposite direction. This was the case under the fragile Left Government, and that is how it will be, according to the Prime Minister's statement on the government basis, for the new taboo government. In fact, the Prime Minister's speech is a pure Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde speech. Dr. Jekyll talks about the nice visions, and Mr. Hyde then comes with a policy that points in the opposite direction. I do not believe that we reach the vision of a more rich and secure Denmark by giving a homeless half a pig, even though I really think it is sympathetic that the Prime Minister has committed himself to the fate of a former homeless, Jørgen. But what about all the other homeless and poor in this country? I have to say here that the Prime Minister's policy means that even more people suffer the same fate as Jørgen. The ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule threaten to throw poor families of children out of their homes, and those who can manage to stay get so much less money that they can hardly afford many half-breeds. Thank you to the PM for helping Jørgen. All we need now is for the Prime Minister and the government to help the many other cash aid recipients. Because we can all risk losing the job. The Prime Minister also wants better public leaders, fewer bureaucratic rules, and the Prime Minister will protect the Danish welfare community. I agree with all that. However, our welfare society is not protected by cutting the number of educators, teachers, nurses, SOSU assistants, SOSU helpers, etc., while the number of elderly people increases significantly. After all, this is the result of the minimal growth envisaged in Danish welfare, as stated in the government constitution, which is even less than what the Left's 2025 plan proposed. The one with the 0.3%. I think he's been written by Mr. Hyde. We get less money for welfare when the Prime Minister wants to hand out tax rebates to the richest. It's an honest case. But it is not honest when the Prime Minister, as one of the reasons for lowering taxes, says that otherwise we risk having less money for better schools, better education, better care for the elderly and better hospitals. So I would ask the Prime Minister to confirm that tax relief means less money for welfare. We get less money for welfare when there is widespread tax evasion and circumvention, led by multinational companies, but also private individuals who dishonestly hide their fortunes in countries such as Panama. These are huge billions which our common welfare loses and which, at the same time, weakens the competitiveness of honest businesses. Yes, the money could even be used to put the treasure down if that's what you wanted. Fortunately, there are efforts, both in the European Union and in the OECD, to clean up the tax fraud, and I hope the government will back up. And why not support the efforts of the United Nations so that poor countries too get their fair share of tax payments? I lacked that in the Prime Minister's speech and in the government base. Globalisation is turning around, and probably especially in the rich part of the world, into a scold, especially because it is far from everyone who benefits from development. People are reacting to that. We saw this in the vote on EU membership in Britain and in the US presidential elections. I agree with the Prime Minister that we must ensure development throughout the country and not accept the slow dismantling of rural areas. We must help with both financial security, job creation and education. But then it is that Mr. Hyde's gonna show up again. Because what the Prime Minister has led is exactly the opposite. First, the benefit period was halved, then cash benefits were cut. That is exactly the opposite of economic security. Job creation has also been tricked with. Unemployment has stopped falling, and the former Prime Minister's previous government has tried with beaks and claws to stop the coastal offshore windmills, which would have been expected to have created 1,000 jobs for 5 years., and it has failed to promote the Maabjerg Energy Concept, which would have created another 1,000 jobs lastingly. We must bet on what we are good at in Denmark. This requires training in particular. The Prime Minister highlighted the excellent importance of education at a time when things are changing very quickly. But what does his government do to both the new and the old? It cuts the education system sharply, 2%. In addition to this, there are limits to the possibilities of changing tracks and taking a new training course. And as if it weren't bad enough, the SU needs to be cut as well. The Prime Minister is also happy to talk about his work in giving young boys with problems a chance • LøkkeFondens boys. In fact, I think the Prime Minister really thinks so. But for many of these boys, the best and only offer is a production school. Is this a place where the financial incentives suddenly don't matter? Well, then the Prime Minister will allocate money to 100 selected primary schools, how many pupils have problems with Danish and bill. That is all right, but the starting point is that all the primary schools in the country, like all other municipal welfare, have experienced continuous cuts, among other things. due to the government's demand for reprioritisation in the municipalities. The fact that we have to help those children who have the most difficulty with everything does not mean that we disagree. But why not start in crèches and kindergarten? Here the number of children increases per year. adult year by year, which means that the children who have the most difficulty do not get the boost they need. We know from research that it is here at the very least that action needs to be taken. And again it doesn't help to come up with a small pool when, at the same time, you force the municipalities to cut year by year. The fact, whether it be welfare in general, education, primary school or daycare institutions, is that Mr. Hyde policy leads to one cut after another, and then it doesn't help that Dr. Jekyll kindly comes running with some smaller pools to patch up here and here. We can choose another way. It can be done. We can afford, not least because a commitment on all children, education and the concrete creation of production jobs, green jobs or others is what will give us advice in the future, although the Ministry of Finance cannot figure out how to calculate these important investments. It is not poverty, inequality, undermining the social security net and cuts that create the future. It is not the new government's policy that is right for Denmark. I'm basically optimistic, kind of like the Prime Minister. There are problems out there, climate, inequality, insecurity. But these are problems that can be solved by the right policy. My optimism does not go as far as to believe that the government can solve the problems, although the Prime Minister must know that the SF will always work hard, seriously and realistically to contribute to the solutions. My optimism is more that the people should be aware of the distance between the Prime Minister's good words and his less good deeds and that this will, hopefully, lead to a new majority as soon as possible. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205171554	Thank you. There are also colleagues who are ready to make brief comments, and again it is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party, who is the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205171606	It's always nice to be allowed to start. There's something nice about sitting up front. I simply want to hear from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr about the homeless, and I agree with the concern for the homeless, I just think it is a bit of a simplification of the challenges that lead to homelessness. Because if it were the case that only the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule led to homelessness, the number of homeless people would not have increased by 16% when Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr went into government and removed the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. I think it's a simplistic thing. One thing, then, is that it is wrong and so it is, but it is also a simplification of the challenges which lie in it and which I think should be taken seriously. Can the rapporteur confirm that there is no such link?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205171658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205171659	I don't agree with Mr. Knox. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, when he says that there is no link between the ceiling on cash benefits and the fact that there are more homeless people. If you ask the non-profit housing companies and housing associations, they say they are putting more and more families on the streets these days because they cannot afford to pay their rent. And that means that they will be homeless if they cannot move in with family, friends or others, because they simply do not have any more money. It is very thought-provoking that the ceiling on cash benefits is just doing so. Yes, people may afford to pay their immediate costs, but they cannot afford to pay their rent, and so more of them end up on the street. But I agree with Mr. Jacob Jensen in that it is not all homeless people who only have the problem that they have no home, there are psychological problems, there are other challenges for some of them, but as far as those we see right these days are concerned, it is due to the ceiling on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205171753	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205171754	One might then ask Mrs Olsen how it can be that the number of homeless people under the SR government increased from 5,290 in 2011 to 6,138 in 2015, which is an increase of 16%, although both the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule were removed. Moreover, in Copenhagen, the companies referred to by Mrs Olsen have reported that there has not been an increase in this number. Will the rapporteur withdraw something, as the rapporteur said before, or should we leave it at that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205171825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205171826	Now the President of Parliament is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, not present, but otherwise she would point out that my name is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. I can see that the PM is a little crazy about that good old Mrs. Olsen, but still. Peace be to it. The point is that homeless people do not have economic challenges alone, and that is correct. I share that view with the rapporteur. But we are just seeing these days, and we see it in the non-profit sector, that there are more families being put out of housing, and I think that the government should listen to the people who sit in the non-profit sector and who say that they face a huge challenge because people cannot afford to pay their rent. The ceiling on cash benefits has consequences, it is felt in families, and not least it gives children in families who are being put on the streets scarring their souls for the rest of their lives. It has consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205171914	Sir. Carsten Kudsk, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205171917	Then I'd better tell you correctly, Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr. I didn't think, when I came in here as a temp, that I came in a situation where I was supposed to praise the SF, and even come in a situation where I had to praise the SF for a strict immigration policy. Then I guess a lot of people had laughed. So what I would like to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is: When you look at the government proposal in relation to the things that come in the field of foreigners, how does Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr feel about the points that the government has made?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205171954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205171955	There are certain points in the government base that the SF can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172001	Then I would also like to refer to an article in which a rapporteur, Mr Seligman, is present. Jacob Mark, refers to the fact that for SF there is a limit in relation to the alien area, and so I would like to know: Where is the limit for SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172019	I'm sorry I didn't just read that article by Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark, compared to what kind of limit we're talking about. Are we talking about the number of refugees coming to the country? Are we talking about integration in Denmark? It is a bit difficult because it is such a rather imprecise question and I do not have all the articles here. But if the rapporteur asks me whether there is a limit to how many refugees we can go to Denmark, the answer is: yes, there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172047	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172051	Thank you. I think I will address the rapporteur as rapporteur, and I shall not get into any trouble here. We are currently experiencing tremendous pressure on public health services. We have seen this most recently with the head of clinic from the National Hospital's maternity ward, who resigned in protest against the working conditions that affect both the birthers and the staff of the department. It is something that puts both professionalism, the working environment and patient safety under severe pressure. The reason for this pressure is the productivity requirement, which means that hospitals have to deliver 2%. more benefits every year. Staff need to run faster. Among other things, it has. This means that productivity in the hospital sector has increased by 2.4 per cent. In the last 10 years, on average, while in the private sector productivity growth over the same period has been only 0.6%, it is an expression of the fact that it is a public hospital which is under severe pressure. After all, the productivity requirement has been in force since 2003 from changing governments, and therefore also during the period when the SF sat in government. Therefore, my question is simply: will the SF guarantee that it will not vote for future economic agreements between the regions and the government if they contain a continuing productivity requirement of 2%.?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172217	Fortunately, SF has together with Enhedslisten in the Finance Act for 2015, and in particular I would like to congratulate Mrs Stine Brix, who is not here, but on maternity leave, one of those who may have used one of our maternity departments for the work of providing more money for our maternity departments. I think this has been invaluable and very important in view of the fact that these savings have just been made. I think it is crucial that we have a good public sector. Of course, it depends not only on the economy, but it certainly also depends on the economy, and I would say, when you look at how fast they run in our hospitals, in our nursing homes, in our schools, that then the limit is reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172259	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172301	Thank you. It is quite true that one of the first acts of the previous government was to remove the 75 million. kr., which was added extra to the svangroomsorgen and scrape them down to 50 million. kr. a year. But that does not change the basic problem, namely that it is not only in the maternity wards, we see this pressure. After all, it is a general pressure that is in the whole hospital sector because we have a productivity requirement of 2%. Will the rapporteur help to ensure that this productivity requirement is rolled back so that it does not become a fixed requirement that year after year you have to run 2%? faster in all departments of the public hospital system?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172340	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172342	Now the SF did not support the municipal agreement last time, and we did so, among other things. not because of the re-priority contribution, where we saw savings in the public sector. It's naive to say that we think they can fix it, they can just run a little stronger, maybe they can just drop some checks or some papers. That in itself does not solve the problem, and there we just have to recognise that economics also have to be achieved if we want to improve our welfare. SF will, and we are concerned that the public employees will have better conditions, but I am, in fact, most concerned that our children, our elderly, our sick people will experience better treatment in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172418	Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172419	Thank you. I assume that the rapporteur agrees that welfare costs money and that money is linked to wealth and that prosperity also comes from private growth. What is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's idea of how to create the growth and thus afford the welfare that we hear so much about and that we all want?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172447	I fully agree with Mrs May-Britt Kattrup that the balance between the private and the public sectors must be present. That is why I am also concerned that the private sector is growing. We have, among other things. In addition, there is a need to develop coastal mills in order to make it possible to build coastal mills. Unfortunately, it was not with the goodwill of the Liberal Alliance, but it is one of the things that creates jobs in West Jutland. Likewise, we have been great supporters of the Maabjerg Energy Center, located outside Holstebro, which will mean 1,000 permanent jobs annually. It is precisely these initiatives that are constantly helping to ensure that the private sector can both grow, but that it does so in a sustainable way, that I think is actually part of the future's business policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172530	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172532	Now coastal mills and mills in general are supported by public funds. What I am talking about is purely private growth, where we will definitely receive a subsidy for the prosperity and welfare that we are going to have in Denmark. It is also the case that many of the jobs created in the green economy cost more jobs elsewhere, so that the net job development may not just come from the coastal wind turbines.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172607	It is simply not true that green jobs cost jobs elsewhere. We have 80,000-90,000 jobs in the green sector, and we have this because we have deliberately given priority to making legislation to develop the green sector, which means that we are constantly seeing foreign companies applying to Denmark and establishing themselves in Denmark because we have some favourable conditions. After all, I find it thought-provoking that the Liberal Alliance is asking the SF what exactly we would like to do to support coastal mills. If the Liberal Alliance thinks it is a problem with business support, the 22 billion could have been removed. kr., which this government chooses to give in business support to some of what is not all the profession of the future, but is also the profession of the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172648	Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172649	Thank you for the floor, President. I feel an unbreakable urge to congratulate Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr on the gold medal in the political Danish Championship in quick reading. It is the case that the government's new basis is 86 pages, with an average of 250 words per year. Page. An average Dane reads with approx. 200 words a minute, if that's what you're supposed to do. If Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr had managed to read most of the government's basis in order to be able to comment on this only 40 minutes after publication, then Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr reads with 478 words per minute. Can the party chairman confirm the newly won status of Denmark's fastest reading politician?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172735	Thank you for the question. Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt pointed out that I would probably laugh, and that is correct. I do not think I will reveal any secrets if I say that, like many other politicians, I have chosen to skim the basis until I have spoken. After all, it is not the case that we are all sitting on our hands for many hours or days before we give our opinion on politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172759	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172800	Yes, of course I thought that any reference to a standard reaction was completely groundless, but if Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr wishes to confirm completely that this is not the case, then perhaps Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr could help me understand how the party SF has been able to put the criticism of the government base on its website before it was published. I think we're a lot of people wondering that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172823	I think that the SF must have some amazingly talented people who apparently have excellent sources in the various ministries. Otherwise, I have to say, I'm sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt answer guilty. I don't manage SF's website.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172836	Then we move on to Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172840	Thank you. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and I have a hanging party from the first opening debate, where I asked Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr if it was still an ultimate demand from the Socialist People's Party for a new social democratic government to abolish the ceiling on cash aid. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr replied willingly to that, but now I would like to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr again. I am aware that there is probably a long time for a parliamentary election, but now Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr can also see what can happen if you have an ultimate demand: you can end up in government. The Socialist People's Party has little experience of this. That is why I would like to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr: after a parliamentary election in two and a half years' time, will it be an ultimate demand from the Socialist People's Party for a new social democratic government to abolish the ceiling on cash aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205172937	I actually think it's a little funny these days that there's this comparison between the relationship of the Liberal Alliance to a government base and SF's relationship to a government base. I fully support the government basis that the SF helped to create with the Social Democracy and the Radical Left. There were major concessions to SF, among others. a climate target that we should deliver 40%. in 2020; there were ambitious talks about public transport; there was earmarked maternity for men; there was the right of homosexuals to get married in the church; there was the desire for the abolition of the cash aid ceiling and much more. There is a clear difference between the government basis of which the SF was part and what we see with the Liberal Alliance and their relationship with this government base, where they have given up their policy so far even in the government base. That is why I have to say that I do not understand that comparison at all. I am not allowed to say anything more, says the President.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173031	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173032	I therefore have to understand that, in order to use the jargon of the Liberal Alliance, the rapporteur has had a thin stomach and that the rapporteur will no longer maintain the ultimate demand for the removal of the ceiling for cash aid. I can understand that, given what happened to the Socialist People's Party when the party went into government. That could be the consequence of making such an ultimate demand for Mrs Mette Frederiksen and the Social Democratic Party. But is it true that the ultimate demand for the removal of the ceiling for cash aid has been removed from the vocabulary of the Socialist People's Party, under the impression that the party must have the fear of resuming itself in government?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173113	Now I don't want to share with the questioner what my stomach status is like. We can do that afterwards. But there should be no doubt that this is important to the SF. This isn't political teasing; it's not something clever. I know that we in the Danish Parliament are very busy making fun of each other and playing smart, so we have to blow ourselves up and look very steel-set, but this is important to the SF, because it matters to the people who are hit by the cash aid ceiling. And I am tired of the fact that it is going to be such a discussion that they must now get their act together, that they must now do so and that, because we can all risk becoming unemployed, and we can all risk going into cash aid. That is why it is important for the SF to abolish the ceiling on cash benefits when we hope to have a new government very soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173155	Then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173156	Thank you. Some of the things that I know are of interest to a great many voters in my hinterland is that of the Train Fund DK. That is one of the issues that I actually quite often get questions about. Therefore, I would like to have just an answer from the SF rapporteur as to whether SF will continue to implement all the projects agreed in the Train Fund DK.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173233	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173234	Good. Then I would like to ask something. After all, we all know that the Train Fund DK is fairly underfunded. That is why I know that many people are also thinking: how will you find the money to implement all the projects in the Train Fund DK? That is what I would like to answer: how will the SF find the funds?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173255	Firstly, it is not true that the Train Fund DK is underfunded. What this is about is 200 million. kr. annual if you want to implement all the projects in the Train Fund DK. The 200 million. kr. If we want to do so, we can make up the transport budget. We spend several billions every year investing in the transport sector. So I also have to say that I think it is grotesque to experience such a large party as the Left opt to stand outside the Togfonden DK, which is about an investment in public transport throughout Denmark. When I have heard the former Minister for Transport, Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt talks about Herning not being part of the Togfonden DK, that in the future one should not experience that one can come quickly by train to Herning, I must say that I am deeply mystified that the Left has the hetz against West Jutland. First it was the coastal mills, then it was the Måbjergværket, and now you shouldn't have fast trains to Herning either.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173349	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173350	Thank you, and thank you for a very good speech. I think it sounds as if there is a basis for good and strong cooperation to overthrow the new government as soon as possible. One of the things I have been a little concerned with in this debate is the issue of privatisation and outsourcing, which is one of the things that in any case most frightens me in the government base that exists, with the experience we have seen in other countries, in other words, particularly in the area of welfare, where things have gone completely wrong. In Sweden, after a new government, they have rolled the other way again. Therefore, I would just like to ask a few questions about SF's views on this, because under the VK government we were very much in agreement. At the time of the opening of both tendering and private establishment for day care institutions, we stood together all the parties from Radicals to Enhedslisten that it was a really bad idea. I mean, it's okay with self-serving and ideal institutions, but this thing about being able to pull out profits, for example. to capital funds or shareholders or tax havens, as we have seen in Sweden, we will not. So my question is really just, where does the SF stand today? I hear that some of the other parties have moved a little while ago. Are we still of the opinion that when we come to the core welfare, the citizens' welfare, it should not be possible to withdraw money? We know it from the free school sector. There we have free schools, but we must not, if I may say so, thank you! ) withdraw profits. What's SF's attitude today about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173512-2	I think it would be really bad to outsource the bourgeois welfare. I think that the examples from Sweden, both in the care of the elderly and, as such, in the schools in Sweden, are quite frightening, because they are not self-serving institutions. These have been companies run by capital funds. And when they have pulled the money out of the companies, the students have left without training, and the elderly have been without close care. We cannot be familiar with that. It is not only necessary to go to Sweden, which is otherwise the kingdom of the Liberal Alliance, I have noted. You can just go to Denmark, because there are several municipalities under the former VK government who were forced to outsource certain parts of their elderly care, and the elderly have felt that, for example. the places where companies have gone bankrupt and the elderly have not received the care they are entitled to. SF isn't willing to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173603	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173603-2	I am very pleased about that because, as I said, I think this will be an important issue. That is why I would just like to ask whether we cannot promise each other from the Enhedslisten and, at least, from the SF, and hopefully from other parties, that this is not something that will happen in silence. And that we promise each other that we, together with the trade union movement and others, towards the municipal agreements to be made, where the government will probably press for forcing municipalities to outsource, must try to build up as much discussion as possible about this in order to prevent us from going into the Swedish conditions that we have seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173637	The SF is certainly willing to do that. We believe, of course, that the more parties in the Folketing agree that they are not interested in outsourcing the citizens' welfare the better. And it would be fine if the consensus were not only in what you might call the centre-left, but also reached all the way to the Danish People's Party. For then the government would not be able to find a majority in the Folketing, and I think that would be very good both for our elderly and for our children and for our sick.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173658	Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173701	Thank you. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr has taken action against the ceiling on cash benefits, and I think that one of the biggest social problems in Denmark is the negative social legacy. And that is when people in generation after generation fail to become part of society on the labour market. What we can see helps children best to get an education and a job is that their parents are at work. So why would the SF rather focus on getting such large benefits so that it is not worth working rather than getting some benefits so that it can actually be worth working? And why do you not want to take part in any of these growth-promoting initiatives that will ensure that we get more jobs in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173742	Firstly, I do not know what growth-enhancing initiatives the rapporteur is talking about, which SF should not be part of. We are part of the 2014 growth plan and we are part of the 2015 growth plan together with the Left, so I am a little confused, but the rapporteur needs to clarify this in his second question. In addition, I would like to ask: is the cash aid really so princely? Let's try to pull things apart. What are we talking about? What are we talking about? What are we talking about? If, for example, you're gonna have to... If you are a social worker with two children and have paid your benefit, you are left with just under DKK 9,000. in the hand. If you saw, for example... If you have a rent in a nonprofit housing for DKK 7,000, you may have DKK 2,000-3,000. back to the rest of the month, for which you have to live. It may be that in Mrs Louise Schack Elholm's world it is princely, but it is not in my world. If you compare the average private employee and employee, we are talking about an available amount of DKK 22,000. It's just to have some ideas about the proportions. There is a real difference between this and children who grow up in poverty have more difficulty breaking the negative social legacy than children who do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173848	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173849	What is most important for children to get an education and a job is whether their parents have received an education and have a job, and a couple with two children receive 23,000 kroner. paid out each month, so these are some slightly different figures than the 9,000 DKK. I do not know how the rapporteur achieves the DKK 9 000. 23,000 kroner. You get paid out every month. I think the most important thing is that you can get a job. Now the SF's rapporteur asked what initiatives have been taken. But you have, for example. not well accepted the 2025 plan, which was intended to create growth in Denmark and secure jobs. After all, these are some of the things that need to be done so that jobs can actually be created around the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205173930	I can hear that the rapporteur of the Left is not fully up to date on what happened after the government made its 2025 plan. We did, among other things. I agree with a PSO agreement with the government in order to create jobs, and the Left and when it comes to getting people into work. I think it is absolutely essential to break the negative social legacy of getting into education and work, but it should be borne in mind that for these people it requires something different. It is not necessarily certain that they come to work because you take their performance away from them. Last time you were in government and introduced a cash aid ceiling, we could see that's not what it meant. It made children poor. We had 50,000 more poor children in Denmark under the previous government, which introduced the cash aid ceiling, but people did not get to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205174015	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205174016	Thank you for your speech, which led me to a chapter in a novel by Charles Dickens, which he rejected, however, because it was too depressing. Last year I voted in favour of the Finance Act and it had a budget of approximately 1 100 billion. kr. Now we have heard what terrible accidents have rained down on Denmark in 2016. My question is, where has the money gone?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205174045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205174046	I'm sorry, sir. Henrik Dahl was not present when I started my speech. I took note of that because I had looked forward to Mr. Henrik Dahl was supposed to ask me questions afterwards. And I actually started my speech by saying that I was quite in agreement with the Prime Minister in describing the state of things and wishing for the future, so that we are a good country to live in and many good things are happening. But I also drew attention to the things that are not happening in Denmark and to where we choose to prioritise and use the forces. I am, for example. We are concerned about giving priority to education, because that is what we will live on in the future. We're not going to live off the North Sea oil or anything else, we're going to live on knowledge. And if we don't give priority to education, we're gonna shoot ourselves in the foot. So making savings in the education system seems to me wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205174132	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205174133	But it is just the case that since 1960 public expenditure has never fallen for a long time. They may have fallen a year or two, but from decade to decade they have always increased. Why is it that almost half of the country's gross domestic product is not enough to run the public sector? What's going on?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205174157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205174158	Well, it's so nice that the Liberal Alliance is now in government, so now the Liberal Alliance can give the answer to that question itself. But if I had to answer the question, I would say that what is thought-provoking is that we have growth in the Danish economy. We've had that kind of thing. It has been more or less growth, and it has been very quiet, you might say, but we have always had growth. And when we have growth in the overall economy, we also have to have growth in public consumption and the public sector. For some of what makes Denmark strong compared to the countries around us is precisely that when we get sick or lose our jobs, the public takes care of us. It is not the private companies that bear that responsibility. It also means that... I am afraid to say any more; I am afraid of the President.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205174243	Then it's mr. Hans Christian Schmidt!
ParlaMint-DK_20161205174245	Thank you. I would just like to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr just to remember one thing, and I think that is fair. I understand that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr does not know what I have said in a conciliation which she has not attended, but I just think that if you want to quote what a minister or a former minister says in a consultation, you must either be there or read the speech paper. What I just want to say is that the question is whether we could envisage solutions between Vejle and Struer. Because neither the proposal put forward by Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr nor what has otherwise been seen include electrification from Vejle to Struer. So there is the possibility that you could think it together with the whole of Central Jutland. And if you don't want to think about it together, you can keep driving by train until there are no more diesel trains, because DSB has told you that it will stop. So I just think you shouldn't make this like it's something very simple. A choice must be made whether you like it or not, especially in view of the fact that the Togfonden DK parties have not allocated money to electrification.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205174347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205174348	What I find interesting is that Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt and the Left are in the process of privatisation of the track from Vejle to Herning and privatisation of the track from Odense to Svendborg. Privatization of the track from Vejle to Herning will mean that a great many people in West Jutland will experience a significantly impaired train service. In the future they will have to change in Vejle, and today there are trains running through from Copenhagen. If you make the Togfonden DK in the full model and electrify to Herning and Struer I think that they deserve to be able to come from Copenhagen to Herning in 2 hours. I think that will also mean a significant improvement in terms of being able to transport people around the country, to increase productivity, to make people live in Odense and perhaps work in Herning. In West Jutland, demand is made for e.g.: engineers on a large scale, and if people have the opportunity to still live in, for example. Odense, there is much more chance of getting the labour force. That is why Esbjerg's mayor is so excited about Togfonden DK; he could just see that in the future there would only be 1 hour between Odense and Esbjerg, and that he could also get much more labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205174452	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205174453	Well, I'm kind of happy with the answer. The fact that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr does not reply at all is due to the fact that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr knows very well that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr has not set aside funds herself. I think it's a little artificial to try to put it this way. Everyone knows that it's nice to be able to get back and forth, and everyone knows that good public transport is good. It would have dressed Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr just to say here: yes, I recognise that we have not set aside the money either. But I took it as an expression of it, and Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr does not need to answer any more. This is a complete admission, so that's enough for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205174526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205174527	Nevertheless, I choose to answer because I think it is thought-provoking that when you choose and want to privatise or outsource parts of our lines, it will have consequences for passengers. I think that after a long time Arriva has managed to drive quite well between Herning and Aarhus, but it is not the main stretch. What you actually send a signal to the West Jutlanders about when you say on the Left that you want to privatise from Vejle to Herning is that you decouple Herning from the main section of which they are part today. I'm not interested in that. I believe that Western Jutland also deserves proper public transport. I guess I just disagree with the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205174603	The last brief remark goes to Mr Beazley. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205174605	Thank you. When the SF sat in government, the transfer income was downgraded, it contributed to employment • lower transfer income contributed to employment. SF believed this when they were in government, just as SF believed that when people were lifted out of top tax, it also contributed to employment. It was honoured that a large number of reforms had been carried out, which were believed to have increased employment. Reforms, as I have just mentioned, lower transfers, more out of the top tax, were made a cash aid reform which drastically reduced the cash benefits for young people under 30 years of age, all of which increased employment. When the rest of us continue in that path, it is the end of the world, we must understand. These are exactly the same mechanisms, the same line of policy, but now it is quite simply the end of the welfare state that we are witnessing. How is it that it is the right policy, the right tools to tackle when the SF sits in government, but the wrong tools when the rest of us sit in government?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205174715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205174716	I've been so looking forward to sir. Olsen took the floor. Maybe it's an internal joke. As far as the transfer is concerned, it is not true what Mr. Olsen says. It is not the case that we accepted lower transfers. No, we did a tax reform where transfers would still increase, not with the immediate index forward, but they would still rise. First of all, it's not right when Mr. Joachim B. Olsen claims they should be lower. Secondly, it is also not true that we lowered the top tax. No, we moved some out of the top tax • some of the people, such as: are nurses who are bricklayers, who are some of those who have the hard jobs in Denmark, who were just on the border; there we moved it up. And yes, one could discuss whether the money could have been spent better, they could, but we abolished the ceiling on cash aid, we abolished the 225-hour rule because we do not believe that people should be poor on cash aid. And when you restore it, it is clear that I disagree with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205174821	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205174822	It is quite true that what was done was that the transfers were regulated less, they were not going to increase so much, but it is the same mechanism. I must then understand that this is then an element of the previous government's 2025 plan, namely that it should continue towards 2025 instead of stopping in 2023 that you might agree with the SF, that would be good. But it's the same mechanism. The fact that they did not increase so much means that employment will grow in relation to the alternative. Cash assistance for young people under 30 was reduced and employment increased. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr cannot talk herself out of the fact that the tools that we would like to tackle are the same as those that you helped yourself to use when you sat in government (First Vice-President Thank you!), but it is now evident that the most terrible thing can be done in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205174913	Then we'll get the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205174914	That's because there's a difference. There is a difference between introducing a cash aid ceiling and a 225-hour rule that we abolished when we sat in government because we do not think that 50,000 children should be made poor in Denmark because we actually think they should have a chance like all other children. It may be in relation to experiencing, for example, that you... I know that some of the bourgeois people sit and laugh and shake their heads and say that you can. But no, because you have to bring a gift every time, and there are children who can't afford it, there are parents who can't afford it. For that matter, it may be that you get a bike. I am glad that many municipalities are doing a lot to alleviate the damage caused by the cash aid ceiling, but you have to take responsibility for what you have put in place and not try to wipe it off on previous governments, because we abolished it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205174958	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205175015	Thank you for the floor, President. What a lovely day it is today. We've been going on for many hours, and I can't promise that my speech will be sweet music to everyone's ears, and I know that I'm the only thing standing between you and dinner. But if you listen carefully, I can promise that there will be Danish classics for every taste. We sing: It's so lovely to go along with two people who want to be together. There weren't just two, there were three. Call it love, call it whatever you want. A week ago, the loveliest morning of 100 years, the Conservative People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Left reached agreement on a new Triple Government. A solid government basis was presented and a competent ministerial team. I would like to highlight a few things that we on the Conservative side are particularly pleased about in the new government basis. In the green area, we have set ourselves new targets that go beyond our international commitments. This is crucial for the Conservative People's Party. By 2030, Denmark must have at least half of our energy needs covered by renewable energy. This means more wind turbines at sea, more solar cells on the roofs and more electricity into the cars. This is a concrete result and not just promises of gold and green forests. The government base also means new natural objectives for our exposed nature, strengthening the green Danish map and some fantastic nature restoration projects. I dare promise that the project in Ekkodalen will resonate all over Denmark. Denmark is and must be a pioneer in the green transition, primarily for the sake of future generations. For us Conservatives, the generational contract is not such a clever slogan invented by an advertising agency. No, for us, it's inheritance. But it does not matter that the new green optimism benefits Danish exports. In Berlingske Tidende last week you could read an article entitled "Trevelive government gives green Danish companies Christmas lights in the eyes" - almost too good to be true, some may think, but it's true, it's December. For the Conservative People's Party, it is crucial that we get the growth going again in Danish society that we do not continue to lag behind our Nordic neighbours. That's capitalism, money, money, money. We want to remove the tax on generational change in companies that have never been anything but an envy tax. We will introduce a new entrepreneurship panel to create better framework conditions for Danish entrepreneurship. We want a stop to the burden on Danish companies and we need to re-evaluate regularly whether existing rules can be simplified. However, I would like to stress that we are not doing business reforms for the sake of business alone; we are doing it to create more and better jobs for the Danes, because then we can also take better care of the socially disadvantaged. Without wealth, no welfare. If you say otherwise, it's magic in the air. You really should make a rule here in the Folketing: Every time we spend 1 hour talking about how we want to spend the money, yes, we should commit ourselves to spending twice as much time talking about how we want to earn the money, and we should not talk, just talk, we should act and make sure that growth comes west of Valby Hill. With increased growth and prosperity and more jobs, we are creating the room for manoeuvre that is necessary so that we can take responsibility for the vulnerable citizens. There is something wrong in Denmark when we do not take better care of our homeless. Too many people have to ask the question: Where are we going to sleep tonight? That is why we are Conservatives proud that, with a clever Minister of Social Affairs in the lead, we need to create a new strategy to reduce the number of homeless people. It is a declaration of bankruptcy for a rich society such as the Danish one that we are failing the most vulnerable in this way, and we therefore very much hope that the new government will succeed in abbreviating the treatment guarantee for drug addicts. In our eagerness to redistribute among all of us who can and should themselves, we forget those who most need a safety net and the security provided by the safety net. Security is a key word for the Conservative People's Party, because we want peace here on land. We want to create a Denmark where the Danes can always feel safe and secure, both behind and outside the four walls of the home. That is why I am very pleased that my party chairman has taken over the position of Minister of Justice. It's a big job. In parts of the country is what we call Shadow Denmark. Here criminals intervene in the peaceful everyday lives of citizens, gang conflicts, violence, burglary and vandalism. It's more than just isolated cases. We must and must never accept that. That is why we, the Conservatives, want to take a much harder line against all criminals, and that is why it is very clear in the government's constitution that the penalties for personal crime must be lifted. As the new Minister of Security says, we must always be on the side of the victim. I could talk about a great many other elements of the government base that I am proud of. The tax on the lowest incomes must be reduced, significantly fewer must pay top tax, more money for our defence, a new and stronger veteran policy, the preservation of our cultural heritage and much more. It's hammer hammer awesome. But, of course, we also need to make sure that the property owners are safe. I do not think it is surprising that the Conservative People's Party is fighting the cause of homeowners. For us, security is essential. With the government base, we have taken a major and very important step in the right direction. Now the government is jointly fighting for the land to be frozen until 2021. We want to lighten the billion-dollar housing tax, so if you want to build a house, you should not fear having to leave it again because of rising housing taxes. When we were invited to intergovernmental negotiations, we made it clear that we would only go into government if we could see clear conservative impressions in the government base. We have had that, just as the Liberal Alliance and the Left have also made their mark. Before you could have gin with one party and the other tonic, we can now together serve a solid gin and tonic. We look forward to working with the Danish People's Party, even if we would have liked to see you in a government. But now that you've burned us off, and that's why you're standing out there knocking, our prayer to the chairman of the Danish People's Party is, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: Tell us you like us. Joke aside, I'm sure we'll find the tune together. I understand that there are some who may be a little disappointed that we did not have a quick choice. It is quite understandable to be down with it, and here, of course, I am referring to this year's Danish hit 2016. But it is neither time to paint the city red nor the country red for that matter. Before I get out of a tong, I'd better round it up. From the conservative side, we are very much looking forward to working with the other parties in the Folketing. We hope that we can reach agreement on broad reforms and good agreements. The Danes deserve that, and we owe it to them. We are prepared from the conservative side to set the tones. At first I look forward to questions after the meal break, and then I am excited if it becomes the tones of the come, let's complain. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205175847	Thank you. We shall now postpone the sitting until 1 p.m. 7:00 p.m. Enjoy your dinner break.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205190029	The sitting is resumed. We shall now turn to brief comments to Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party. The first one to have a grand opportunity is Mr. Knox. Dan Jørgensen from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205190044	Thank you. And thank you for a cheerful and musical speech. I am not going to try any jokes because the theme I am going to address is quite serious, namely that the government is going to raise the pensionable age. This means that there are a great many people who have worked a whole life, who are in danger of being worn out and being worn out, who now have to work even longer before they can have a proper senior life. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is how people are to be defended, that they are now going to be longer on the labour market in order to be able to afford to finance some top tax relief for those in our society who already have the most. That is one part of the question. The second part is: it is not clear from the government's basis exactly how much it wants to increase the pensionable age, so I would like to have the rapporteur guarantee that it is after all no more than half a year, which was originally proposed in the previous government. As this is not apparent from the government base, we are some who fear that it may be more than half a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205190156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205190159	As we live longer and longer, it makes sense, of course, to regulate when we withdraw and leave the labour market. There has been a principle in the past that these are approx. 141⁄2 years, you have to have back of estimated lifetime, compared to when you retire. And it is clear that as we live longer, then there must also be regulation as to when we retire. But it is absolutely right that there should be offers to those who are worn out and who cannot physically stay longer in the labour market. There must be today, and there must be in the future too. But when you look at the retirement age, it is because it is an effective way to increase employment as well. If you regulate by 1⁄2 years, it gives 12,000 in increased employment. No figures have been given, so the Social Democracy must arm itself with patience in relation to a precise statement, but it will of course come.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205190257	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205190258	But that was quite a clear answer, as I asked the rapporteur if she could guarantee that it was not more than 1⁄2 years. And I understand from the rapporteur that she cannot, since there is a more precise proposal. So the rapporteur would like to confirm that we now no longer know whether it is 1⁄2 years and that it may well be more than 1⁄2 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205190321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205190323	As rapporteur, I can confirm to the questioner that there will, of course, be a clear response from the government on this point, so no one will have to worry about it, of course there will be. Now we have created a common government basis in which it says that this will have to be seen. The exact message will come. But, of course, we must look at when we are withdrawing from the labour market, as the Danes also live longer. That should be common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205190352	The next is Mrs. Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205190355	Thank you. I would really like to ask Conservatives about the public law. And I will, because in many ways it was an absolutely terrible thing that was carried out under the previous government, which meant that the room in which you can look at the rulers over your shoulders was restricted. There was a terrible fuss and criticism of it, and Conservatives helped adopt it. But then the wonderful thing happened that Conservatives could see that it was a little mad, and I have great respect for that. What I find a little frightening is that that criticism has at least diminished, after Conservatives, together with the Liberal Alliance, have been given a share in the ministerial seats where such a free space is used. So two questions, if it can be included in the answer: One is: Why only § 24? What about the other two highly critical paragraphs, namely 22 and 27? Secondly, will the Conservative Ministers use the public more to avoid the secrecy of the three paragraphs within their ministries?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205190513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205190516	It is true that the Conservative People's Party originally voted in favour of the Public Act. Since then, we have been out expressing a concern about the Public Service Act. A work was started under the former Minister of Justice, who was to evaluate the law and look at these paragraphs, for example. In relation to more publicity. In other words, whether it has the effect that was thought it would have at the time. As I see the government base, nothing has changed in relation to the fact that that evaluation must continue to come. But there is one thing that is absolutely certain, and that is that we need to look at the paragraph on ministerial service. So in this way I hope that the rapporteur will see it as a plus where there may be more that the rapporteur will be in favour of. But in the first place, at least it is certain that the section on ministerial service will have to be looked at. And then, by the way, we must evaluate exactly as was decided when it was brought into the world by the former minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205190607	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205190608	I'll get that. Will there simply be a further evaluation of section 22, which is calendars, and of section 27, which shuts off access to documents exchanged between members of parliament and ministers? Is there simply an extra evaluation of it, even if it is not in the government base? So on the second question, which Mrs Mette Abildgaard just forgot to answer. Will the Conservative Ministers ensure, as they are free to do, that more publicity is available to them in their areas, that is to say, do not use the access to secrecy provided by the Public Service Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205190645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205190646	After all, there was a group of parties that agreed that there should be an evaluation of the Public Service Act. Nothing has changed that. That evaluation must continue to take place. But it is only certain that when that evaluation is to take place, we must at least look at the section on ministerial service, so that is why you are only better off now than you were before. I would also like to congratulate my Conservative colleagues for having the courage to look at the public law in a situation where they themselves enter the government. Often you see that it goes the opposite way. To the last question: I simply cannot answer that, because I have not asked our ministers about it. So we will have to discuss this on another occasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205190720	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205190722	Thank you. Now I had all sorts of hugely cocky remarks that I would have made after the speech, but then there has been a meal break where everything has disappeared. So now I'm gonna go right to the point and ask about our nature. After all, the government's basis says that there will be a halt to the decline in biodiversity, which we have committed ourselves to with the 2020 objectives. And then I'd like to know if there's a little more coming. Because we know that the government is proposing +13,000 hectares, but that researchers are saying that if we are to stop the decline in biodiversity, we must have up to 75,000 hectares of free nature. So do you Conservatives have any ideas on how we can get this work going, which is urgent now if we are to achieve our goals by 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205190808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205190810	Thank you. It is not long ago that agreement was reached on a new nature package, which is going to be published, I believe, 25 000 hectares of both untouched forest and biodiversity forest. It is a very, very important tool, because we know that very many of our endangered species live exactly in the forests. It will also be a challenge to bring private forest owners into this, because we know that much of the most valuable forest is in private hands. There it has been allowed to stand for many years, and it has given a valuable nature. So it is a challenge that we have now: to get private forest owners to do this. Now we need to find a model of cooperation for the interpretation of this untouched forest, which hopefully will pave the way for us to have even more untouched forests in the future. I therefore agree with the questioner that it would be preferable if we could get there. After all, in the government base there are these new natural targets for 2020 and 2030, and that is the goal that is meant for the particularly vulnerable Danish nature, where we really have a biodiversity concern to take. So I'm really looking forward to it. We're about to unfold a little more.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205190915	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205190917	That's really good, too. And again, I want to say that I've praised you countless times now, so it's almost gonna be really embarrassing. But it is still only a third of what is needed if we listen to the researchers. If we are really going to live up to our international agreements to stop the decline in biodiversity by 2020, then we are going to have to go up against these 75 000 hectares, and 25 000 hectares are only a third of that. So is that something you can imagine the Conservatives will continue to work for, in other words, that we will actually achieve the objective to which we have committed ourselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205190952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205190954	But we are working to stop the decline in biodiversity that we have seen, and Denmark has also committed itself to it internationally, because it goes without saying that we must, of course, work for it. Here the forests are one instrument. A nature recovery project such as: Lake Søborg is another good tool. But I think it has to be said that it is insanely difficult to achieve this objective within the time limit set, and practically all other European countries have achieved that. This does not mean that we should stop trying, but that the challenge is great.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205191023	Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205191026	Now we have come out a little bit, so now we can just talk freely here in the Assembly Hall. I would just like to return to an exchange of words which was at the beginning of the debate when Mrs Abildgaard asked the Socialist rapporteur whether it would be possible, like an alliance, to freeze the ground debt until 2025. And there I am puzzled by the fact that a government party may be looking for alliances in the opposition, but one should in some way be welcome to say that there is a government basis, that one will present a proposal on the housing tax based on what is called "security for the homeowners." For the last time I checked that play, there was no mention of freezing the land guilt until 2025. So I just need to figure out what we can expect. Is this a game based on what, incidentally, was received nicely by the Conservative People's Party when you were just a support party and which is, of course, about a new form of housing tax and a new way of dealing with it? Or is the government playing out that the ground guilt has to be frozen until 2025?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205191131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205191132	I am very sorry to have to correct the President of the Radicals, but I think he listened a little badly when I asked my question. First of all, I didn't seek an alliance. I sought to know whether the Social Democratic Party thinks the same thing in a parliamentary term as what they have said every time there is an election. Secondly, it was not the reason for this, compared with 2025, but the property value tax. In fact, the Social Democratic Party has said on several occasions that they would freeze the property value tax until 2025. What I asked following that was then the freeze on the ground until 2021, as the government's basis says.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205191209	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205191212	It says that the ground is frozen until the new rules come into force. But that means that what we can count on is that, when it says in the government base, it is based on this idea of security for the homeowners, that is what today is the policy of the Conservative People's Party. Thus, when the new rules come into force, both the property value tax and the land tax increase again, the tax freeze is a distant past, and one comes into it as many, who are not on the choice, but who independently consider the Danish economy, have recommended for many years, namely that housing taxes constantly evolve.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205191249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205191251	In the Conservative People's Party, we basically believe that we should have a whole change in our housing tax system. We would rather tax the profit margin of sales than have the current housing taxes. It is such a fundamental change that we want from Conservatives. But the very famous elephant must be eaten in small bites, and it is a good start that is in the game that has come from the previous government. It is clear that it will be adjusted when a new government has arrived. For example, this element of a freezing of land until 2021 was not in the previous plan, but it will by its very nature be in the upcoming plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205191325	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205191328	Thank you, and thank you for an entertaining speech before we went to dinner break. As I read the government base, there is no climate objective to achieve 40%. in 2020, and before I ask my question, I would like to commend the Conservatives for being the only party on the right who is seriously doing something for the environment and the climate. I don't think that's too much to say. Well, then commend it. If it's not 40%. Can the rapporteur tell me what is at least the Conservatives' wish for in 2020? Because we also need to have some sub-targets. We can't just say that in 100 years we'd like to be there. So in the slightly shorter term: what is the target then? If it's not 40, it's 39, 38, 37 percent.?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205191430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205191432	It is quite true that there has been this 40 per cent target. CO2 There was also a prognosis that said that Denmark would meet it. It hasn't been a very long time since it came. Then some things have happened since then. For example, we have made an agreement on the PSP, where the questioner's own party is also part of that agreement. That agreement means that CO2 So in the short term we will see an increase in CO2 But I agree that there is a need for targets that are also needed sub-targets, and that is why we really welcome this new 2030 target that 50%. of our energy needs must come from renewable energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205191523	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205191526	Thank you. But when I want to pursue it anyway, it is because it may be a little cheap to say that we have a target for 2030. After all, it is not certain that the current government will be sitting for 14 years yet. I can see that, sir. Anders Samuelsen is shaking his head, but we are some who do not hope so. Either way, 14 years is a long time when we know that every year counts now. We are at a critical time, and I am also sure that the rapporteur is in complete agreement with this, which is why we cannot wait until 14 years from now to see whether we have fulfilled what we wanted or what the government has put forward. We also need to see if we are on the right track. Then the rapporteur cannot be a little more specific in saying how much we have to downgrade it over a five-year period compared with the PSO. What should be the objective for us to know that we are on the right track?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205191624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205191626	I think the questioner forgets that it is next year that we have to make the energy reconciliation that extends until 2030. So the targets we set ourselves for 2030 must be added to the foundation stone when we have to make a new energy reconciliation as early as next year. The rapporteur then says that it is a little cheap, but I must regret and say that it is not cheap at all. This is going to require massive investment. As I said in my rapporteur's speech: more mills at sea, more solar cells on the roofs and more electricity into the cars. So it's next year when we have to make the new energy reconciliation that we have to show that we're serious about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205191702	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205191705	Thank you. When I heard the rapporteur's speech, not only did I get a musical flashback, but I also had a flashback when I read the government base, because the pace for the environment and the green was beaten, but unfortunately it was the same old song. The Conservatives have spoken out loud and splendidly about marked green results in the government base, but there goes Sussi and Leo in it. They're old punchers on glittered paper. When you review the government base, you will of course enjoy a reunion with the green Danmark map with a natural cannon and with the continuing talk about untouched forest. However, when all concrete environmental policy instruments are blowing in the wind, it will never really be that really any evergreen. And faced with the fact that the Conservatives sold old wine in new bottles in Jyllands-Posten on Friday, Mrs Mette Abildgaard also says the interesting thing that the section in the government base on chemistry does not refer to previous efforts, but that it should actually be understood that the Conservatives will require the new government to come up with a new proposal in the field of pesticides. The new government must make a new move in relation to the pesticide negotiations that are under way. Does the rapporteur not want to reveal a little what is at stake here, what new pesticide proposals are coming and how it will be different from what we have heard from the former Minister for the Environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205191826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205191828	The questioner got around pretty far. As a conservative, I don't see anything wrong with old battlers, and I think you could hear that from my speech too. I would be very surprised if there were no real political victories in what is in the government base, and it would also surprise me that the Danish Nature Conservation Association, that the WWF, that CONCITO should go out and praise the new government base, and in lots of media say that this was a very, very significant impression, if not, because they thought it was real progress, real improvements. I simply find it difficult to see why they should be so in love with the Conservative People's Party that they should do so. How sometimes I wish that the Social Democratic Party would be a little bit • to put it bluntly as the Alternative, i.e.. really politically recognizing instead of that eternal teasing. Because you only take nature hostage in this very thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205191920	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205191922	It is good to hear that the Conservatives are happy with those backing vocals that have been on the game. I just have to stick to my question, which goes on: the Conservatives' rapporteur says that with the Conservatives in government there will be a new pesticide initiative, a new one in relation to the pesticide action plan that we are currently negotiating. Will Conservatives not reveal how we will be able to see the Minister for the Environment that there has been a conservative party in the government? How will a new pesticide proposal be different from what we have heard about from the current Minister for the Environment, who has just spoken about opening up to allow more pesticides and burdening our groundwater more with pesticide pollution?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205191959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192000	I think it is absurd that at one moment Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen over not having been called for negotiations, and at the next moment it seems as if Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen knows exactly what is on the table from the previous government. However, in negotiating a new pesticide strategy, there will, of course, be a presentation in which the Conservative People's Party will also go in and make its mark. After all, we must work together with the Minister for the Environment, with whom we have excellent cooperation to date. So, of course, you will see that we have also put our prints there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192031	The next brief remark is from Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192037	Thank you. The Conservative rapporteur, as usual, made a great deal of this with confidence in housing, and this is a view that we share in the Enhedslisten. It is important for everyone, tenants as owners, that one can count on staying in one's home and that there will be no sudden increase in expenditure, which means that one is forced out. But it's just as if the Conservatives are a little selective about when they want to ensure security. It's always when we discuss taxes, and that's also relevant. There have been problems with the fact that in some places the root cause has increased faster than ordinary people's income. But now the treasure is not the only thing that can push people out of their homes. After all, what many homeowners are experiencing right now is that banks and mortgage banks are setting their fees and contributions very high. The expenses that people have incurred in those areas are in many places greater than the increase in the ground debt, many thousands of kroner a year for families around Denmark. That is why my question is this: will Conservatives also help to create security for homeowners, for example. by introducing a much stricter regulation of the banks' ability to raise charges on mortgage loans already made? Or is it only when it is the treasure that Conservatives care about the security of homeowners?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192200	It is true that we in the Conservative People's Party are very concerned about the security of homeowners. Often it is interpreted by the left as if it is only such a small elitist core for whom this could be a problem. We held our Conservative summer group meeting with Susanne, who lives in Lejre. She pays 34,428 kroner. in housing tax per year. It's out of a folk pension of DKK 6,063. At the rate at which the basic debt has risen, the retirement pension has not been followed, and that makes it difficult for someone like Susanne to stay in her own home. So, yes, this is something we care about in the Conservative People's Party. Whether there are other ways of ensuring security for homeowners, we must look at, but we are not on the conservative side prepared to have to nationalise the banks in such a way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192246	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192250	I appreciate the fact that the Conservative rapporteur is usually trying to answer questions like this, but this was a bit of a song from the hot countries, because I said just now that I fully agree that it is a problem if tax increases faster, for example. for old-age or low-paid employees, other than housing taxes. So the rapporteur does not have to lecture me on this, we have been in agreement on this for many years. The idea of an exit tax was something Enhedslisten had on the drawing board long before the Conservatives jumped on that idea. What I am asking is that there is something else right now that is threatening a great many Danish homeowners, and that is that banks and mortgage banks of greed have turned the charges so sharply that many people find it difficult to stay in their homes. This morning the Conservative Minister for Economic Affairs has been out to say that he thinks the banks are being bullied and that the banks should be spoiled. I think that is just a pretty wild announcement at a time when many Danish homeowners are being evicted from their homes or risking it because of the banks' greed. But apparently it is not the consideration of the homeowners who weigh so much longer for the Conservatives. It is the concern for the banks that should not be bullied, but must be spoiled. Well, I think it speaks for itself, to be completely honest.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192407	I guess I forgot to tell you that the second question and the second answer are only 1⁄2 minutes. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192412	We're both a little new here, so we're both sorry about that. I must start by saying that I have not read the article to which the questioner refers in relation to the Minister for Industry. I have simply not seen those statements, so I therefore find it a little difficult for me to make myself very clever, precisely in what context it has been said. However, I would like to say that, from the outset, when you enter into an agreement, there is also in that agreement how such things as fees can develop, what security you have, and what opportunities a bank has, for example. And, of course, the regulations contained in the voluntary agreement that you make when you take up a loan in a bank, for example, must be respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192448	The next question is Mr. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192453	Thank you for that and thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. I'd like to follow up on my colleague, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen's question about the spray venom action plan, which will apply from next year and which the rapporteur himself has mentioned, and I would just like to ask whether, if we cannot find out what is in that plan, we can be told whether, at least with the Conservatives in government, there is a guarantee that we will not have an increase in spray toxins in nature and groundwater.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192521	Syringe strategy or pesticide strategy, dear child has many names, and it is absolutely right that a new plan should be drawn up which will apply from next year onwards. It is crucial for the Conservative People's Party that you can feel confident that we protect the Danish groundwater, which is so unique in Danish, and which means that we can pick up our water directly from groundwater and drink it, and it is a gift that we must pass on to future generations. This will, of course, also be reflected in the new initiative that comes from the government when this is to be negotiated. However, I think it might be fair enough for us to actually have an opportunity to discuss this with the new minister. I can tell you that with three men in a parliamentary group, there has been a little bit of work to do this past week. But that will, of course, be reflected.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192604	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192607	We all recognise the good intentions of the Conservative People's Party, and that is why we can say we are trying to look for some pointers, and that is why I just ask: is it when the Conservatives now, as part of the government, go in and sit down in the negotiating room, so on the basis that the rest of us can count on the fact that it is not an increased load of pesticides in nature and groundwater that comes on the other side of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192632	Sir. Of course, Jens Joel can count on us from the conservative side to protect groundwater, just as we will also protect the sprayers and we will also have health concerns. There are the three parameters that you measure when you look at pesticides. But let us not try to wait until we get out of the negotiating room, and not until we have even entered into it, and then I hope to meet the Social Democrats in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192657	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192701	Thank you for all the anecdotes about the songs, especially the one that says it's hammer fat, and I'm not going to continue the text. I would really like to ask about the fact that there is a group for which it is not hammerhammer fat, and I will try to quote another song, namely that you should ask from someone, and this is about some from the Deaf Association that I had a visit from last week. The deaf are particularly hard hit by these cash benefits regulations. It's only 38 percent. of those who are at work and at the same time studies show that it is the group that people have the most prejudice over when it comes to not being able to do ordinary work. So my question to the rapporteur is: why should this group be particularly exposed to government policy, which, after all, is adversely affected?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192745	It will always be the case when reforms are made that some groups are affected by the reforms that may be in a difficult position. But I was so happy when I saw a TV feature the other day, which was just about a deaf person who had come to work in Fact, I think it was. It was a success story about a person who had got a job and had entered employment despite his hearing disability. There are also posts for people with hearing disabilities if we otherwise have a spacious labour market where, as a colleague, one is willing to go the extra mile to include them in the labour market. Then, of course, there are groups where we need to be extra focused on what we can do to include them in the labour market and where it can be harder to see the way to employment. But the way is there if we are just prepared to provide the framework that is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192832	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192834	But when two thirds of those who are deaf are outside the labour market, these rules hit really, really hard, and people who have a disability have by no means put themselves in this situation. Then you could hope that the Conservatives are perhaps the social voice in the government that looks at these rules in relation to it hits people with a disability?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192853	When there are two thirds of a group out of work, then of course we have to look at how we get them into employment. It is then a declaration of bankruptcy of the other world just to say that we have to look at their public services and then we have to shut them out of the labour market and just give them so much money that they do not complain. I think that is a sad approach to it, if I am to be honest with you. I would much rather that we look at how to create a labour market where there will be more jobs like the one in Fact I talked about before, where you will be included in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192922	Sir. Malte Larsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205192926	Thank you. Back in May, the European Commission sent a pre-opening letter criticising the agricultural package for damaging sensitive natural areas and breaking three EU directives. In this regard, the rapporteur, Mette Abildgaard, said to Berlingske: "We wondered why there was a need to make the figures look better than they really were. At that time we were wondering whether it was because of the European Union, and it is clear that such a pre-opening letter makes us think that that was enough. In this light, I would like to hear what Conservatives are going to do to ensure that the government responds to the criticism of the European Commission and that the European Commission is given fair nitrogen accounting in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193009	Well, it's nice to feel it on Mr. Knox. Malte Larsen, that it is really something that concerns him and that he is very committed to. I can say that, for us, the agricultural package is a closed chapter. A natural package was created, where we went in and compensated with more after-crops, it was exactly 624 tonnes that were needed. After all, there has been this dialogue with the European Commission, and I saw the other day that there was a message that there had been a common understanding. I think that is very, very positive. I really think we should be focused on how to ensure both agriculture so that it can get through a difficult crisis in a difficult time and at the same time ensure that our aquatic environment is not harmed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193052	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193054	A closed chapter? I'm not sure I quite think that's good enough. I would like to ask the Conservatives once again how to ensure that this agricultural package complies with all the EU rules, including the Nitrates Directive, the Habitats Directive and the Water Framework Directive. Do you think, for example, that the agricultural package should be renegotiated?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193122	It says in the agricultural package that if you cannot get it through the EU system, then you have to meet in the conciliation circle again. However, exactly what has happened is that the European Commission has returned and said that a common understanding has been achieved. This is because, among other things, the voluntary post-crop scheme has been made compulsory if farmers do not report themselves sufficiently to this. So precisely the security with regard to, for example, the Water Framework Directive has been achieved which is needed. This has been done in good cooperation with the previous government, and I am very, very confident about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193153	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193156	Thank you. We, as politicians, must be able to stand up to the objectives of openness. It is part of living in a democracy to have openness. It's not throwing anything at anyone, but you just have to say that with this law we've gone too far. As the rapporteur can well hear, it is, after all, the current Minister of Justice who is speaking out on the Public Service Act, and it is also mentioned in the same context that it conceals too much. It was a recognition that the Conservative People's Party came to, after they had been involved in adopting the Public Act, and that it was decided that the evaluation from 2017 to earlier would be brought forward and that at least paragraphs 22, 24 and 27 would be revised. So it's just that I need to hear something. Now I heard the rapporteur reply to that before, but is it still the view of the Conservative People's Party that the review of the Public Service Act should be brought forward and that it is all three paragraphs that need to be looked at, and not just section 24, which is stated in the government basis? Or are we going to stay in the rapporteur's own musical universe to say that the new slogan of the Conservative People's Party is going to be The Clash's old hit I Fought The Law And The Law Won.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193309	It is quite true that we on the conservative side believe that the original public law went too far. That is why we started working with a number of other parties, which were just about to evaluate the Public Service Act and look at the new rules and how they are applied. Is that in line with what was the original intention? There is much evidence that a number of paragraphs are not. That evaluation is still going away. What we just know now is that the paragraph on ministerial service is being amended.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193340	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193342	But if that is the case, will the rapporteur not at least make sure that the Conservative Ministers have the opportunity to manage according to a more open practice, which does not apply paragraphs 22, 24 and 27? Now I heard that the rapporteur said earlier that this had not been discussed, but I still think that having had such striking views in this area and it is so clearly stated that we are in fact opposed to the intentions contained in the three paragraphs, it would be quite natural for us to say as a starting point: of course our ministers want to administer without taking into account the law of the public. The same could be said of the Ministers of the Liberal Alliance. The possibility exists. Would it not be very natural to take advantage of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193430-2	Of course, the three Conservative ministers must act according to the law in force. That's the way it is. Whether they choose to go further than that, they have to decide personally. But I have thus fought for the fact that my Conservative ministerial colleagues are working actively to change a law that gives them protection and in many ways makes life comfortable. In fact, I think it deserves respect that, in a position where you yourself will be sitting on the taboos of power, you are working for more openness.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193457	Mrs Kirsten Brosbøl from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193500	In fact, I was just about to try to be a little positive, as Mrs Abildgaard is calling for it that way. I would like to say that I am so cheerful that what Mrs Mette Abildgaard says about the green area is a believer and that the Conservatives will have more influence in the new government than the party's mandates actually say. But then I get a little worried when Mrs Mette Abildgaard says that this agricultural package is a closed chapter, because as I see it, there are still some outstanding issues in that area. I understand that Mrs Mette Abildgaard wants to close that chapter, because it is certainly not one of the green chapters in the history of the Conservative People's Party. But I just need to make sure that I understand Mrs Mette Abildgaard correctly. Now the rapporteur refers to this with the nitrates directive and the catch crops, but what is the situation with regard to the Water Framework Directive and the Habitats Directive? Is it also seen with conservative glasses a closed chapter as far as the agricultural package is concerned?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193601	What is relevant is not whether the agricultural package, as seen with the glasses of the Conservative People's Party, is a closed chapter. What is relevant is whether it is seen with the European Union's glasses. If the European Union comes back and says that this is not a closed chapter, then it is self-evident. Then it is not a closed chapter; then we will have to meet again in the conciliation circle, as the text of the agreement also says we should. And then, of course, we will have to see what action needs to be taken. However, I think that, once the European Commission has returned and expressed this common understanding here, there are signs of a good dialogue with the EU system. But, quite frankly, it is the European Union that is going to decide this, and that is something that time has to show.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193638	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193641	Frankly, I find that a little disappointing. However, as I said, I understand that the Conservatives need to distance themselves from the mess they did a year ago, because that is really what we are talking about. When you have been reprimanded by the EU system when you have come into this situation, where you have to change something that has been voluntary to be mandatory, then it is well and I would like Mrs Mette Abildgaard to confirm that there had not been enough work done. I would also just like Mrs Mette Abildgaard to guarantee here that the Conservatives will of course not compromise the Water Framework Directive and the Habitats Directive if there is still something that is not a closed chapter.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193730	I will do my best, but it was a little much that the rapporteur asked me to reply to in a very short time. Of course, the Water Framework Directive and the Nitrates Directive must be complied with. It is not for discussion, it is not voluntary for Denmark whether we want to do it or not. This lies in the EU regulation that we in Denmark are also obliged to follow. A flag was raised in connection with these catch crops as to whether one could be sure that agriculture would supply as many catch crops as they had entered. When we ask agriculture today, they say: you can rest assured; it will come. So in this way, I do not feel much irritation about this new element on the part of the European Union. I actually believe it's gonna come. After all, we must remember that we are financially compensated as a farmer for growing these after-crops.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193814	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193817	Thank you. After all, it is no secret that the Conservative People's Party wants to spend much more money on the military. Generally speaking, we want to build a military armor. Of course, we in the Enhedslisten disagree with that, but it is fair enough that the Conservatives then have a different attitude than the Enhedslisten. What I would like to hear from the Conservative People's Party is where the money will be taken from. As can be seen, if the Conservatives were to have power as they have been watching, and where should that money be taken from? Should they be taken from the elderly, should they be taken from the sick, should they be taken from the school children? Where will the money come from for the armament that the Conservatives want?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193905	I had hoped a little that the questioner would end by asking how many fighters we wanted, because I have just read that out, so I had it fresh in my memory today. Somehow I can't help laughing about it, because it's very typical Enhedslisten that you assume that something has to be taken from somewhere else in the social cake, instead of looking at how to make the cake bigger. How do we ensure more growth and prosperity in Danish society? After all, it is as a clear vision in the government base presented that plans will be presented which will increase growth by 80 billion. kr., so of course we must also be able to afford to insure ourselves in Denmark. After all, the defense is in many ways like an insurance policy that you hope you will never need. But as the threat picture looks in the world right now, we just don't dare live without that insurance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193949	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205193951	Now the rapporteur himself said in his speech that one would like to talk about where the money should come from, where the funding should come from, and if I understood the rapporteur correctly, it was through a higher retirement age that the money for military armament should come from. I do not know if that was wrong, but if it is true, that is a clear answer. If that is wrong, I do not think it is unfair to ask the Conservative People's Party quite clearly where the money really will be taken from, because I think the Danish people really have a right to know that. It is irresponsible if we have parties here in the Danish Parliament that simply demand to spend billions without making proposals for funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205194033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205194034	In Denmark we have a public consumption of 1.103 billion. kr. for 2016. If we cannot afford to defend ourselves as a nation, we are a poor nation. Of course, it is crucial that we in Denmark can feel safe. Of course, when we see Putin arming, we should not lie down and say, 'Come on, because we are not going to resist.' Of course, with such a high level of public spending, there is also the advice to give priority to our defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205194103	Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205194107	I think that was a very fair question, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen asked where the much money that the Conservatives will spend to strengthen the defense will come from. Then we can't get an answer. We are talking about a government party, and I think it would have been reasonable to reply. But I want to ask you something else. After all, the Conservatives' own ministers have the opportunity not to take advantage of the possibility of secrecy under the new public law, and I understand that the rapporteur has not talked to the ministers about whether they intend to do so. However, I am sure that the rapporteur himself has a position. Would it not be quite natural, now that the Conservatives and fortunately for that, how nice is it to oppose the secrecy which the new Public Act lays down for the Conservatives' own ministers not to apply those rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205194207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205194209	When the government comes to present a new 2025 plan, you will see there that a strengthening of the defence is being put in place, a substantial strengthening of the defence and, of course, you will also be able to see where the money comes from, as was the questioner's point of view. It was just a comment on it. I am not a minister, and I know that many are relieved of that, because then there was another party in the Folketing, but on the question of ministers, I would say that it is up to the ministers to decide, but rather their responsibility is to follow the law in force. I would like to ask Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen a question: how many kroner did the questioner pay into this voluntary tax payment scheme when it existed?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205194246	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205194248	I thought it was a completely simple question I asked. It is quite okay that the rapporteur has not been able to talk to the new Conservative ministers about the Public Service Act, because there has probably been a lot to do, but I am just asking about the rapporteur's own position. I am sure the rapporteur has his own views. I think it is wonderful that the Conservatives have been very clear about criticising what has been called the blackout law. I think that's cool, the hat off for it. I think it would be good if the Conservatives were to work for greater public opinion from within the government. I would like to ask the rapporteur's own position. Would it not be quite obvious, since it is the position of the Conservatives, that they then do not apply these rules of secrecy, but actually say: we think that the public is a good idea, we dare to let the public look into the cards?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205194342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205194343	However, our ministers dare to let the public look at them in the cards, and that is why they are working to have the Public Service Act reviewed. That is why it is maintained that the public is written into the government base, which we are pleased about, which we are proud of, and I think it deserves respect to be fought to change this legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205194403	If the next and last questioner is a little clever in the line, we can get him in right now. Sir. Jacob Mark of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205194409	Thank you. I'll do what I can and thank you for your speech. After all, I have looked with interest at the recent financial laws, where I have noted that private schools in Denmark have been raised financially over and over again. That could be fine, I think. But this has happened while the primary school has been eroded over and over again by municipal savings. And that has meant, for example, what TV 2 means. has been able to prove that there is a flight from the primary schools right now into the private schools. Now it is also stated in the government base that private schools will be further strengthened in the future, even though they have actually been raised for two years in a row. So first, I guess I'm just gonna ask, when is that really gonna be enough? So how high must the grant to private schools be before it is said: now we have reached a level that is appropriate to ensure a balance between private schools, free schools and primary schools? How high should the coupling rate be?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205194505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205194506	From Conservatives' point of view, we actually think the primary school has a huge value. It is the school of the people, it is there that all walks of life must meet, and we must ensure such a good offer in primary school that there is no need for alternatives. But we are also bourgeois, and we like free choice. I do not think that is what is regulated on the coupling rate, which means that more people choose private schools. But I can say from the Conservatives that it is not the case that we have gone to the polls and have looked very hard at the fact that this coupling has to be regulated. There are other parties in the government for whom it has been more heartblood than it has been for the Conservative People's Party. Now it is in the government base, and then we are loyal to it. But for us, the most crucial thing is that we secure a good primary school as a professionally valuable offer to all pupils.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205194551	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205194552	So if there should be a sum of money to do better school for in the future, what I certainly hope for, and the choice, like again, is between adding them to private schools or perhaps spending them at our common school, then will Conservatives go in and argue that this time they will be spent at our common primary school?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205194615	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205194617	If there is to be more money for a better primary school, it requires that we get the growth in Danish society going and stop lagging behind Sweden and Norway, which have much higher growth rates than we have in Denmark. Let's start by talking about that part, and then we'll talk about how to distribute the money. And in the first place, we do it inside the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205194635	Thank you to Mrs Mette Abildgaard. I think she's been involved in starting a trend, I could understand. At any rate, we have received an invitation up here at the chair that in future, if you want to keep referring to songs, you are referring to Danish songs. However, it is not the case that I do not understand the text, so I am not intervening so far. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA is the next rapporteur. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205194704	Thank you. A lot has happened since Parliament had its traditional opening debate two months ago. The political landscape has changed and, as we all know, a new government has emerged in Denmark. But what is new, at least for some, is that there has also been a new government in Greenland. For Naalaksuisut, which the government is called in Greenlandic, now consists of Inuit Ataqatigiit, Siumut and Naleraq, and Siumut's chairman, Kim Kielsen, is chairman of the Naalaksuisut, while IA's president, Sara Olsvig, is vice president of the Naalaksuisut. On behalf of Inuit Ataqatigiit, I would also like to congratulate the Danish Government. We look forward to working with the new government to create better conditions in the 32 areas Denmark is responsible for on behalf of Greenland. Similarly, we also look forward to cooperation on the Greenlanders who are in Denmark and on the future foreign policy of the Kingdom. On the Inuit Ataqatigiits side, we note that there are a number of points in the government's policy on the Commonwealth which have been maintained, as well as a number of new points. We welcome the fact that the government has taken the initiative to detect pollution in the area around the old military base Camp Century, and we also welcome the reinforced wordings on border barriers and constitutional work. However, we are concerned that there is a government base, that cooperation with the Kingdom community should no longer be equal. In the same way, it can be said that the self-government law is very much about promoting equality. It is one of the most important things in the Self-Government Act, and when the government also writes that Greenlandic MPs do not necessarily have the opportunity to participate directly in negotiations relating to Greenland, I wonder whether the government really wants equal cooperation within the Kingdom Community. But let us remember that the law of self-government is also a law of parliament and that ensuring equal cooperation is thus also a task which the Folketing has put to the government. Inuit Ataqatigiit was elected in June 2015 to be Greenland's free voice in the Folketing, and it is a position where we want to collaborate widely with all parties of the Things for the benefit of the Greenlandic people and the Kingdom Community. Our long-term objectives are the same as those of the previous government, and what we are working for is what we call the three Vs: growth, prosperity and a place in the world community. In order to be able to afford welfare in future Greenland, it requires efforts in the area of justice and social affairs, but it also requires efforts in relation to business development and investment, which in turn requires international partnerships. We are pleased that the government is suggesting that the whole Kingdom community should be involved in the negotiations on Brexit and the consequences it has. The course has already been set by the IA and we will stick to the same goals and direction, but we look forward to a strong and trusting cooperation with the new ministers, and we would like to take the opportunity to congratulate them. Cooperation with the new government has already begun, because I have sent a number of letters to the various ministers in the ten main areas of Greenland. It is partly to congratulate us and partly to remind you that we have a large number of common objectives which we still have to work to achieve. I have asked for a meeting with a number of key new ministers to highlight some of the areas that I think should be given a great deal of attention. This is among other things. In the field of foreign affairs and justice, education and social affairs. It is important for me to maintain a constructive line and I look forward to good and constructive cooperation with the new enlarged government. As I also mentioned in the opening debate, which was held on 6 October, three policy areas are going to fill very much for IA in the future: justice, defence and education. IA will therefore give priority to justice, and in the government's constitution, the government states that there must be the same standard in the area in Greenland as there is in Denmark. Last week the Lawyer's Council published a new report on the justice area in Greenland, just as the Greenland Human Rights Council, together with the Institute for Human Rights, has published a report on legal certainty in Greenland. The Greenlandic legal system is fundamentally different from the Danish legal system, and we have the two Greenlandic parliamentary laws with the Code of Procedure and the Criminal Code, which describe that the principle of the perpetrator and rehabilitation must be highly valued. For example: we have measures rather than penalties in the Greenland legal system. A peculiar legal system also requires a review and critical review of the various areas, and here, as politicians both in Greenland and in Denmark, we must jointly be entrepreneurial and ensure that we do not passively or uncritically relate to the current legal system without looking at whether it works in reality. An important objective for me is also to see whether the legal system is still in line with the wishes of the people, and a study has been carried out not so long ago which showed that a majority thinks that rehabilitation is really important so far, so well. However, another objective is also that we comply with the legislation in force and that we ensure that there are the right competences in the area of justice. We should look much more critically at the layman system in the area of justice in Greenland and work towards professionalisation, particularly in the area of justice. We also believe that we should look a little more critically at the national defence office, which is only a part-time job. At least it needs to be a full-time position and to ensure that competences are allocated to ensuring that both the defenders and the district judges have better competences than those they currently have. I would very much like a hearing to be held with the support of the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs here in the coming years, which is about us setting a course in the area of justice, but also that we have the courage both to carry out the necessary reviews of our legal system and to maintain what is working. From the IA's point of view, we also believe that it is very important to stick to prioritising a safe study programme for our Greenlandic students in Denmark. Because the need for educated people in Greenland is still huge, and well-educated young people are and remain Greenland's most important resource. But Greenlandic students in Denmark are often really pressed. They study in a country other than their home country, and there are many cultural and linguistic challenges that make it harder for them than for Danish students. During this parliamentary year, Defence's upcoming task solution in the Arctic will also be central to the priorities we have in Inuit Ataqatigiit. There must be a new defence settlement and we want to be part of the forthcoming conciliation, which is probably no secret to anyone in this Chamber. The defence is not just Denmark's defence, it is the entire kingdom's defence, and therefore all the members of the Danish Parliament should of course also have the opportunity to have a place in those negotiations. In Greenland, a majority in Inatsisartut has decided to set up a Constitutional Commission. The work will have to go on for three years, and in the end, a referendum will have to take place on the Constitution and decide whether there is an agreement on independence. It is important to stress that this does not mean that independence should be achieved in three years' time or that we should have autonomy within a shorter period of time. But it is an expression of the desire to set a direction for Greenland's development. I believe that this is a perfectly natural step, and I also think that we should respect the desire that exists in Greenland. With us in Inuit Ataqatigiit, we also think it is important to emphasise that we are aware of the economic consequences that it will have in the long term when we talk about autonomy, and that is why it is important to ensure a responsible economic policy forward-looking. However, as I said, it is important to say that independence does not happen tomorrow, but that it is a work which is quite natural and which is in line with the law of self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205195559	You're welcome. There are a number of brief comments. Interest in Greenland is increasing. The first is from Mrs Karin Gaardsted from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205195616	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. It's always nice to hear news from Greenland. I'd like to dwell on it a little bit about the criminal code. Now it is the case that the new prison in Nuuk will soon be inaugurated, and this is a major change that will happen in Greenland, namely by the fact that those who commit very serious crimes will in future be able to serve in Greenland. But it is a prison, and you have never had a prison before, and when we have visited, for example, with the Greenland Committee. It has always been very clear to us that there has been a completely different way of punishing, where rehabilitation has almost been the largest part of the punishment. And I have certainly personally been very pleased about that. The fact that there will now be a real prison does the rapporteur believe that it will be infected with down, that is to say, in the detention houses, so that one becomes a little more square or a little more legal?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205195728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205195730	Thank you for the question. I have just been to Greenland and among other things. have had the opportunity to discuss some of the recommendations contained in the most recent report by the Lawyers' Council with a number of different actors, including: with the Department of Corrections. And it's not a prison coming, it's an asylum with a closed section. So you still hold on to the fact that we have asylums. But from the IA we think it's very gratifying that it looks like we're finally getting this facility with a closed section. And one of the things I think we should pay close attention to with regard to criminal justice is that we both have people who are under arrest, that is. those who have a dangerous crime behind them; those who are convicted; and those who are supposed to be in detention houses. Today they are all in institutions, and we do not have the physical framework to accommodate the three different needs. And that means that a lot of people are detained in everything, far too long. So that's one of the things that I, among other things. We should focus much more attention on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205195831	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205195833	I am also very pleased that there will be an institution. Something else is the recurring problem of the villagers. At any rate, we have now been told that the salary has been raised so that it has improved and I would like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on how we can ensure that the last places where there is still a shortage come in.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205195901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205195901-2	I have a meeting with the National Police Commissioner here within a few weeks, and a clear message from the IA will be that you have to ensure that there are municipal guards everywhere. As things stand today, we lack municipal officers in between 13 and 15 places where it is so that in those settlements you have nowhere to turn in connection with both reporting a crime and ensuring that legal certainty is in order, and that is under all criticism. It is under all criticism and it is unreasonable that this has been the case for so long. As I see it, we have in fact done a very good job in political circles over the past few years before I was in Parliament, where we have just ensured that both continuing training, equipment and pay have been raised upwards. So it is just as much management that it is now necessary for the police in Greenland to ensure that there are municipal guards everywhere. That is also one of the points raised in the latest report.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205195958	Sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200000	Thank you, and thank you for the speech that was given. I have also seen the new government basis for the new government in Greenland, and there it is, as has also been mentioned, that point No. 1 is the setting up of a Constitutional Commission with a view to achieving independence. I would have thought that program point no. 1 would have been to try to solve Greenland's economic and social problems, but now leave it in a different order. But I would like to ask: on what economic basis does the rapporteur consider Greenland to be able to cope as an independent country?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200050	Thank you for the question. Now it is the case that IA wants to take responsibility and that IA takes responsibility with the new government base and with the new government, Naala Suisut, in Greenland. The IA has chosen our President to take the post of Minister for Social Affairs and Justice, you might call it, and in the same way one of our Members has taken the post of Minister for Finance. We would very much like to point out some concrete examples of how to ensure economic sustainability. And as I said in my speech, it is not something that will happen tomorrow. It's a long, cool job that needs to be secured. However, when we have just chosen to take the social area, it is to ensure better wellbeing for children, so that we can ensure that more people are trained and more are able to take a job so that we can reduce unemployment in Greenland. Then there is a huge amount of work to be done to ensure growth. After all, it is a diversified effort to ensure that there are developments in the various areas, in relation to tourism, raw materials and fisheries and catch. But it is too big and complex a subject for me to come up with an overall plan for it. This is something that Naala Suisut will be working on for many years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200149	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200151	I therefore understand that this is a long way off in the future. Nevertheless, I see that this is the overall issue, which is included daily in the Greenlandic debate. That is what I see, but I may be wrong, sucking all the energy out of the Greenlandic Landsting and out of the Greenlandic Home Rule Government. In addition, a minister has been appointed to have this as the first priority. I do not feel that there is any realism in the debate that is taking place in Greenland at the moment, and it really disappoints me that this course has been set without really having anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200240	I think it is important to emphasise that it is not necessarily about finding an end date, but more about the process. It is very much about ensuring that Greenland gets a direction, but it is also about having a dialogue about what the fundamental values should be for Greenland when we become independent in the future. So this thing about trying to put an end date on, I don't think it's important. I think it is very important that we look at economic sustainability and how to ensure it, and that we look at social issues and how to ensure that our children and young people have better conditions than they do today. At least that's how far we agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200319	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200320	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. We look forward to working with the new government in Greenland. I am pleased to hear the rapporteur's view of a more constructive approach, including the focus on education. One subject I would like to ask the rapporteur is the downgrading of the Danish language in Greenland in favour of English, as I understand it. I am well aware that it is a homeland area, but if you are going to look at how to get further education in Greenland, either in high school, where it is in Danish, or at the University of Denmark, where it is also in Danish, then this downgrade makes it easier for young Greenlanders to continue their education. Does the rapporteur agree that more needs to be done in future to give priority to the Danish language in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200418	There is a majority in Inatsisartut who has decided that one would like to look at the stakes in relation to the equivalent of English and Danish. And I really think that this is a fine compromise, because it is not on the part of the IA that we wanted it to be English that has to be before the Danish. But I also think it is important to stress that this whole diversity talk in Greenland is something that I myself am very much in favour of. If we sit down and say that it should only be about the Greenlandic language, and in this way like caps some external relations, then I think Greenland is extremely vulnerable. We think that precisely this point of ensuring that language skills are given a higher priority in relation to Greenlandic, Danish and English terms is extremely important. And there it is both about teachers and textbooks and something very concrete, which IA also works for.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200512	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200512-2	Thank you. I am not saying that one excludes the other, because one can, of course, give priority to English education, while keeping the focus on the Danish one. But since all 9th grade education is primarily in Danish, it is a disservice to say: We do not provide you with the same tools for further education in purely linguistic terms. The previous time I was in Greenland, we were up to visit a high school where we could feel that there was a part of the students who had major problems with the Danish. And if you can't get through high school and so can't move on to college, you have a big problem. Is that not something that should be given more attention in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200600	With the Act of Self-Government, for which the majority of the Folketing voted, Greenlandic is the official language. As I see it, IA is also the realistic voice, the pragmatic voice in the work. After all, it was the Democrats who put forward a proposal that English should have a higher priority than the Danish one. We in the IA believe that it is important that we ensure that our young people receive training, as I have also pointed out, and that we are working together to get as many people through the education system as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200640	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200642	Thank you. I would like to start by congratulating IA on the government's participation and, of course, I would also like to wish you every success in the process that has been set in motion for a Constitutional Commission. What I would like to ask is that I am aware of the fact that there is a great deal of ambition in relation to the social area and the initiatives that the IA will take in this area, and what I think it might be appropriate to hear the rapporteur about is how we can ensure that there is good cooperation between Denmark and Greenland in the social field in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200724	Thank you very much for the question. I think it is important to emphasise that the social area is a repatriated area, but where cooperation can be achieved, among other things. in relation to the 32 areas which Denmark still takes care of on behalf of Greenland. In addition, there are a large number of specific areas in which we could say that we could also cooperate, even if they have been taken home. In relation to the social area, it is one of them. to exchange knowledge between Greenland and Denmark. In relation to education, I also believe that ensuring that students are kept in education and return to Greenland is something that Greenland and Denmark should also cooperate on. As far as industrial development is concerned, I also think, even though it has been taken home, that it might be very interesting to see how we could cooperate more on it. For there is no doubt that Greenland has to think new in terms of getting some revenue and in terms of ensuring that there is business development, and I would like to see Denmark being one of the partners that you are also looking at.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200825	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200827	Thank you. Then I would just like to say on behalf of the Enhedslisten that we are looking forward to working together in this area, but of course also in a large number of other areas. We are very pleased with the cooperation we have with IA here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200841	Thank you very much. We are also pleased with the cooperation we have with the other parties here, including the cooperation with Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200848	Then it's mr. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200852	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech, and also for the words about independence and, incidentally, congratulations on the formation and participation of the government, which is why the words about independence are more important. It is true that certain parts of the political system in the Faroe Islands have a burning desire for independence, but we must understand from the polls here in recent days that there is in fact a small majority of the people in the Faroe Islands who do not want independence. Is it the rapporteur's view that the same applies to Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205200933	Thank you very much for the question. In fact, a study has been carried out which shows that it is as much as 74 per cent. in Greenland, which is interested in independence to different degrees. So you can say that it looks a little different in Greenland. There is a broad desire for independence. I think it is important to put some more nuances into this whole debate, which is why I think it is important for this Constitutional Commission to come out and talk to people and also to ensure that the people are also included in these discussions, because it is precisely about what we should live on and what values we want for Greenland to move forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201015	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201018	Thanks for the answer to that. The same parts of the Faroese political system that want independence also want the block subsidy to be abolished. Is it the rapporteur's view that the same will be realistic for Greenland and will it have a positive or negative effect on the development of Greenlandic society and the Greenlandic economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201046	There is no doubt that we also need to ensure how to achieve economic sustainability, and this will be one of the very concrete political discussions, I think at least, in which I also hope people will be involved. How one has knitted society together today may well look different in the future, but there is no doubt that one must ensure that there is affordability for a welfare society at an adequate and dignified level. These will be some of the things that I will certainly fight very, very much to maintain.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201117	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201119	Thank you, and thank you for your speech, and of course a great congratulations to IA on the formation of the government in Greenland. It was not so long ago that we were standing here last time, and there I asked about the ratification of the Paris Agreement, which the previous government had chosen not to do. I still think this is a very, very important issue, and I would also like to see Denmark and Greenland working together on a very ambitious climate action. So could the rapporteur reveal what is now of new green bars in Greenland after IA has become part of the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201155	Thank you for the question. I am delighted to say that the alternative rapporteur has at least been written into the government base that efforts will be made to find solutions to the accession of the Paris Agreement. This requires internal discussions in order to reach agreement on what Greenland is finally deciding on and how to secure a majority for it. However, much more has been opened up than Greenland signs the Paris Agreement. When we experience climate change so close and we see that the temperature in the Arctic is rising at double speed, it makes really, really sense that, as some of those who experience climate change so close, we also help to take responsibility ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201241	I have to say that since Mr. Bjarne Laustsen came into the Chamber, I have been able to sense that the sound level over there in the sidewalk has become somewhat higher, so I would ask you to keep your voice down a little bit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201253	It's the Left sitting over there, so that's why there's a little noise in the back rows. Thank you so much for that answer. Personally, I am very, very happy that you will have a good and progressive green policy, and it is also some of the ideas that IA has had in the past about a major climate effort in relation to new business initiatives in Greenland. Then a cadeau to get the climate flag raised in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201321	At any rate, I think it is important to stress that taking responsibility, a global responsibility, is not contrary to creating business development, but that the two things can go hand in hand. And I think that is a very important message to send, including from Greenland. Thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201336	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201339	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. And also from me a very great congratulations on the formation of the government. I would like to ask about the area of legal policy. After all, we have been on a trip with the Legal Affairs Committee in Greenland. Could the rapporteur make some comments on the problem of subsidiarity in relation to the district judges and the problems of finding the right people to perform the functions and what the rapporteur has done in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201414	Today we have four jurisdictions in Greenland, and we've gone from having 17 I think we had earlier. And I think it is important to maintain the principle of subsidiarity and to ensure that your case is dealt with as close as possible to where you live. At the same time, I also think it is important to question whether the professional level is high enough, to dare to debate some of the things that may well be a little difficult to discuss. But I really think it is extremely important, with legal certainty, that both on the prosecutor's side and on the defender's side and in relation to the district judges, we ensure that they are properly dressed for their task, so that we also comply with the law. And unfortunately, this study or survey by the Council of Lawyers shows that this is not always done to a sufficient degree. I think that is the reason why we in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights are also looking at how we can help to lift the justice area, looking ahead for 5-10 years: what is needed in the long run? I would like to see a number of Greenlandic lawyers, and that is the debate I have had. has travelled in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201526	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201529	Thank you. I very much agree with the considerations, and the problem is exactly as the rapporteur himself said at the end of this debate that at present. There are not enough Greenlandic lawyers. So the question is, how do we get Danish lawyers to go to Greenland until we get enough Greenlandic lawyers trained? So that's more of a comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201550	Thank you very much. Where we lack circuit judges is after all in the municipality of Sermersooq, where Nuuk is located and where there is typically no recruitment problem. So I think we can actually maintain the system of jurisdiction that we have today. I believe that things must be graduated. We already have an opportunity in the Code of Criminal Procedure to ensure that we have defence lawyers and that we get legally trained judges to carry out the duties, as well as the part of the charge can also secure some lawyers in that area. So if we look at a little more flexibly how to knit a system together and lift the level, then I think it's possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201632	Thank you. Then it's Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201635	Thank you. I would also like to say that I find it very interesting that the Greenlanders are discussing independence and a constitution of their own, but if the rapporteur should reassure those people who think that this is a rather sad thing in relation to cooperation with Denmark, what could be said to them? I mean: I have also met with the saying: No, no, Denmark loses influence up in the Arctic and such things if we do not have the kingdom community. What will the rapporteur say about such issues?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201710	I think that it is about having as good relations as possible from a Danish perspective, but also from a Greenlandic perspective. If you look at the self-government law, there is already the possibility that Greenland can gain independence. But it also has to be dealt with in the Folketing, so in this way the Folketing will also be involved when you get there. I think that where Denmark could make a greater effort, it was in relation to the 32 areas where Denmark could be better able to take initiatives to raise the area. We see that there is legislation from the 1970s, from the 1960s, which still exists or is in the process of being removed because we have pointed it out. But if you give priority to good cooperation with Greenland, I also see that there can be a good relationship in the future. And that's where I think Denmark should put some effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201759	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201801	Thank you. I myself, of course, would also personally work for independence if I lived in an area such as Greenland, so far away from Denmark. But of course I would also work for the economy to be in order, because it is extremely difficult to run a country all alone if the economy is very fluctuating, and it has been in Greenland for many years. But I would like to wish you luck with the process, because I think it is a very exciting process that you are launching.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201826	At any rate, it is always exciting to discuss where it is that our country should go, what it is that we should live on, how we should knit a society together and what it is for a welfare guarantee we should also have for our children and young people forward-looking. In any case, I find that extremely interesting. I also think it is important that we on the part of the IA now that we are in government say that we want to take responsibility, that we want to be more entrepreneurial in pointing out some areas that need to be lifted, so that we cooperate more in raising the various 32 areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201856	Then it's mr. Roger Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201858	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. In the context of the Arctic statement, we are aware in the alternative that there is a strong need for us to address developments in Syria and how Russia's actions and barn have affected the situation. We were therefore curious to see the Minister of the then government as to how, in relation to the Arctic, it is maintained as a low-voltage area, but yet these challenges are addressed. What is self-government's attitude to the situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205201944	Thank you very much. It is of common interest to preserve the Arctic as a low-voltage area, and I think that is not only for the Commonwealth, it is also for the other countries of the Arctic. There is no doubt about that. I can't even imagine there being a war in Greenland. So, God forbid that that happens. It is also very far away from the way you are as a Greenlander, and it is perhaps a little difficult to explain it in words. But it is very far from Greenlandic culture to think that way and have such great conflicts in an area which is, of course, very vulnerable in many ways. So I think it is really important to ensure that we are also involved in the defence settlement that is coming here in the coming year.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205202029	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205202031	Thank you. It is also, of course, with a view to Greenland's future interaction with Russia, a question of whether it will affect anything in relation to Syria's situation. Then I will also ask about the indigenous people. Today, we can be proud to see how the whole situation of the Standing Rock Sioux tribe has succeeded. And I think it is extremely important that Denmark also focuses on how we get a better knowledge of the indigenous people and Greenlandic culture. How does the rapporteur see that in 5-10 years' time we can strengthen that knowledge and cultural heritage in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205202109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205202111	I myself have been privileged to have been employed at the United Nations through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and have worked at the United Nations on the rights of indigenous peoples. And one of the things that makes me really proud globally is that a great deal of work has actually been done in cooperation. Greenland is actually used as a role model when it comes to the rights of indigenous peoples in relation to the political autonomy that has been achieved. That is why I also believe that there is a special commitment on the part of both Greenland and Denmark to help spread that message. After all, there is the UN Declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples and the ILO Convention 169 on the rights of indigenous peoples, where there are a number of rights that we are not fulfilling today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205202149	We thank Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205202205	I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister and the new government on the formation of the government; it is a form of government with a spirit of courage in which good issues have been specifically laid down as regards the Kingdom Community and Greenland. I am very happy to read that, and in this context I also have high expectations of significant improvements in Danish responsibilities in Greenland; they have needed improvements for many years. The government insists that the interests of the whole Kingdom community are taken into account in all respects, and that close cooperation on the Arctic and on our international cooperation is given priority, among other things. in the Arctic Council. Relations within the Kingdom community require care, understanding and recognition of diversity, not least in terms of priorities, views, culture, language and politics. It is important that in Denmark you have a government that is good at listening to the statements coming from Greenland, whether they come from Inatsisartut, from us MPs or from Naalakersuisut. There are 32 responsibilities, which are still purely Danish responsibility, and these are responsibilities that affect the everyday lives of the Greenlandic population both in settlements and in cities. These are responsibilities which the population is particularly aware of how to be solved and handled down here from Denmark. If the Danish Government gives priority to the areas of responsibility in Greenland, or if they are at the bottom of the list of priorities again, you ask yourself. I am very confident when I read that the new government will ensure that the standard in the area of justice in Greenland is at the same level as in Denmark. These are great ambitions, and I have high expectations of the work. In this context, I am also looking forward to a very good cooperation here in the Danish Parliament. Legal certainty in Greenland must be strengthened. The legal certainty of the people of Greenland has been damaged by many years of under-priority in the area of justice. The trial time is long and the standard does not correspond to other parts of the realm. Similarly, there is much to be done on the material side of the police in Greenland. Some station buildings are very worn out and even still have dry monasteries and mold in the buildings as well as very outdated detentions. The fact that one has a state which takes account of the equal rights of all the people of the Kingdom in Denmark requires that the new government take seriously the implementation of the government's legal basis in Greenland, if not only fine words on a piece of paper. I wish the Minister of Justice every success in his work, including in the case of Greenland. Similarly, the Greenlandic population in Denmark has been given a lot of focus over the past year because of the Institute for Human Rights' report, which concludes that a very large part of Greenlandic society in Denmark is discriminated against by the authorities solely because they are Greenlanders. If an authority treats its citizens with discrimination, a government has a great responsibility and a great deal of work to do. If integration and inclusion in Danish society are to be a success, it requires to tolerate the diversity of other peoples in language and culture. Despite being Danish citizens, we still have a different culture, a different language and a different mentality. Good inclusion requires action on both sides and no discrimination. Everything else will be devastating to the Kingdom community. Here I wish the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Social Affairs every success in their work. We do not have Danish as a native language, and most of our students here in Denmark do not. The progress reform hits most students in Denmark hard, especially the Greenlandic students in Denmark. The linguistic and cultural differences mean a great deal in order to fit into a new culture of study and in a new and different society. If our students are to have a fair chance and a fair treatment and opportunity to get through the progress reform, it is important to look at linguistic and cultural differences and thus ensure that our students can complete their education here in Denmark. Here I wish the Minister of Education good work, also with regard to our Greenlandic students in Denmark. Greenland and Denmark have had some serious discussions at this time about the serious pollution of the Americans on the ice. The responsibility is clear. The responsibility lies with the Danish Government. Denmark, with its defence agreement with the Americans, has a legal and moral obligation that Denmark cannot escape. Greenland has taken responsibility for the environment, and we lift the responsibility that is ours. Denmark must also take responsibility for what is Denmark. It cannot be right that the former Left Government had difficulty finding answers to who is responsible for cleaning up the old American base in Greenland. Naalaksuisut has announced that they will subpoena the Danish government for UN agencies for breaking the UN Declaration on indigenous peoples if it continues to ignore the seriousness and the representations made by Greenland regarding clean-up and liability in connection with the Camp Century pollution. I give my full support to this initiative to Naalakkersuisut if the Danish Government continues to do so. I am pleased to read in the government base that Camp Century and the service contract in Pituffik have been added to the government base in particular. I think it is important for both governments, both in Denmark and in Greenland, to find a common understanding and a common line for future work. Everything else will damage relations and good cooperation between Greenland and Denmark. I wish the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Foreign Affairs good work to ensure that mapping and clean-up are carried out in a sound manner and, of course, in close cooperation with Naalakersuisut. I am pleased to see the Prime Minister's announcement that we are now going to invite the North Atlantic MPs to a major settlement and that in this way it is shown that all members of parliament are members on an equal footing. I'm really glad to hear that. There are many border barriers that need to be removed. There are many tasks in the field of justice. There are a lot of charts that need to be made. There are major challenges in the Arctic areas. Legal certainty must be raised. The populations must be treated equally both in Greenland and in Denmark. It is time for equality in the Kingdom community to be given a boost that can be felt both nationally and internationally. It's almost Christmas. The church is the center of many Greenlanders' Christmas. That the Greenlandic congregation in Denmark does not have their own church council and only has one priest for 18,000 souls is a great deal of concern to us. We pay church taxes like everyone else; yet we cannot have the soul sorrow that we need. To be allowed to hear your own language for the services and to be allowed to speak your own language with the priest means a great deal to Greenlandic citizens here in Denmark. I wish the church minister every success in her work and from here I would also remind her that she is the church minister for the Greenlandic population in Denmark. As you know, there has also been a new government in Greenland. I wish both governments a very good cooperation; it must produce good results for the benefit of all the parts of the kingdom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205203013	Then there are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205203016	Thank you. As I said to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, what is the economic background that makes it possible to put so much energy into independence in Greenland? Where is it that Mrs Aleqa Hammond sees the economic possibility of being an independent country at all? Furthermore, I would like to ask: can it be understood from Greenland that many people in Denmark are becoming lonely at the idea of all the investments to be made in the Arctic area in a situation where Greenland is going away? Frankly, why does Danish society have to pay to finance an independence that is probably a few Danes want? Why would you do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205203108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205203109	Now it is not such a question of how many Danes want Greenland to go and become independent or not, it is Greenland's own wish. This is what the majority of the Folketing wanted and also adopted in connection with the adoption of our self-government law, which was implemented on 21 June 2009. That's democracy. The rules of democracy mean that what the people have decided will follow the governments. And this understanding of when and how Greenland can achieve independence is an understanding that has been achieved between Greenland and Denmark with the Self-Government Commission, of which the questioner has also been a part. In this context, I would like to say that this is an agreement which I personally think is a very good agreement between two countries which want to break free in a good and sound way. Of course, the economy is also a very large part of it and how it should be handled is also clear in the self-government agreement. I also believe that, since the Greenlanders have become owners of their own wealth, both of living and non-living resources, among others. is the way the priorities are going to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205203218	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205203219	As the rapporteur knows, the Danish People's Party was not a participant in the Self-Government Commission. We were on the commission, but we didn't participate in the law. But I know the law, and so there is nothing in the self-government law about Denmark actively contributing to Greenland's independence. It says that Greenland can take back independence if you decide to do so, but there is nothing in the Self-Government Act that says that for a long period of time Denmark will have to finance a Greenlandic dream of independence, which I can see even with my poor financial insight is a project that is not in any way sustainable economically. Now I ask the other way round: why should the Danish state, the Danish society, finance an independence that cannot bear itself? Why would you do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205203307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205203308	Greenland's desire for independence is not a question of who will finance it, it is a question of how a country is managed, and it is a question of how a people would like to be led and run their own country. Being allowed to be master of our own house is a natural thought for us. I also understand that the Danish People's Party voted against the Autonomy Agreement. I have great respect for that. That's democracy. But it should also be borne in mind that the vast majority of the parties represented in the Folketing were in favour of understanding that Greenland wanted to go that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205203344	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205203345	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. The rapporteur mentioned something about the fact that the progress reform is a problem for Greenlandic students who are in Denmark. What does the rapporteur propose to do to ensure that we do not find ourselves in a situation where Greenlandic students are unable to complete their education?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205203414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205203415	Now it is the case that the progress reform has affected many students in Denmark, both Danish and non-Danish. As I said earlier, Danish is not our mother tongue, and no matter how good Danish we may speak, it is still quite a challenge to take a long-term education, where language is only crucial to how well we do in the course of our studies. The Greenlandic students' association in Denmark, called Avalak, has made several representations to us in the Danish Parliament and made us aware that the progress reform hits the Danes hard • never have there ever been so many reexaminations as now • but it hits our own students twice as hard, precisely because they study in a language other than that they speak at home. The habit of getting used to the study environment, but also the habit of getting used to another society, has made it extra difficult for them to settle in. In the end it also hits the time required to complete the training and retain Danish SU. I have addressed the government on the issue, in the hope that there is an understanding of that aspect of our concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205203529	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205203532	I agree with the problem. I did not quite understand what the rapporteur would propose to do in order to pay for it, but I would almost like it to be something about the possibility of an additional year of study. Something else that the rapporteur mentioned was that there are matters which the Danish Parliament stands for in Greenland, which are not being adequately handled. One of the areas mentioned by the rapporteur was justice and police. Are there any other areas that the rapporteur would like to highlight?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205203607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205203608	First of all with regard to students: an extra year in which they can retain the SU is a good offer which was proposed by Avalak and which I hope the government will take on board in the further course. Legal certainty in Greenland has been weakened for many years. Fortunately, improvements are being made in this area, and it is thanks to the Legal Affairs Commission which published a report in 2004. Unfortunately, the implementation phase has lagged a lot, since no funds have been allocated for the implementation of the recommendations. Here it is very clear which areas are important for us to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205203649	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205203650	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur about the same subject that we discussed earlier in relation to the Danish language. Let me begin by saying that, of course, I have the utmost respect for an increased focus on the Greenlandic language, but I do not think that one excludes the other. If the young people in Greenland after the 9th grade do not have the same opportunities for training because they lack full knowledge of the Danish language, they put the young people in Greenland in a very, very unfortunate situation. This also applies if they want to continue at the University of Denmark. Can the rapporteur clarify what the rapporteur's position is about, that Danish is being downgraded and thus risk putting some young people in Greenland in a worse situation compared to further education?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205203741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205203742	Now it is the case that we, who grew up in that generation after the home rule was introduced, are required to learn Greenlandic, Danish and English in three languages. We still have that requirement in society. We are required to be examined in three languages, both Greenlandic, Danish and English. Since Greenlandic became the official language in 2009, the language debate in Greenland has flared up, i.e. about what is most important and how it is implemented, that the official language is recognised in the way we want it. This, of course, has also resulted in us discussing the other languages of society. A society that moves towards independence also moves linguistically in a different direction, and a society that thinks more globally, of course, also gives English much more priority than is the case today. I think that is an entirely natural development. At the same time, however, it also means that we need to look at the consequences of the decisions we make, i.e. how it will affect our students in Denmark, how it will affect our relations with Denmark, and how it will affect other parts of society that we need to be aware of. But I think it is a natural development.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205203851	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205203852	Thank you very much. That sounds reasonable, but when we look at the number of young Greenlanders who continue to study after the 9th grade, i.e. how many people do it in Denmark versus an English-speaking country, we see that most people naturally are looking for Denmark, which is part of the Kingdom community, and where you can get free education etc. Therefore, I do not understand this opt-out of the Danish language, which I fear has more to do with nationalistic reasons, because a lot of young people in Greenland are hit by prioritising English rather than Danish, and thus it does not serve the purpose that it should have done, since the possibilities are now in Danish institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205203933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205203934	Now it's a choice. After all, none of us have discussed whether Danish should be removed completely from the school schedule. It is a priority of how much you want to use the other languages. I personally speak English better than I speak Danish, also because I have chosen not to take my education in Denmark, but have chosen to travel around and experience the world in a completely different way than others do. It is a choice one has, and it has also resulted in my speaking less Danish today than I might have if I had chosen to settle in Denmark at an earlier time. It is a choice, and people who are young must also have that choice at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205204013	The last brief remark I have made is from Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205204015	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to repeat what is the Greenlandic request for priestly aid in Denmark, because I believe that the arrangement we made a few years ago works well where it works. So it's more needs I need to make clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205204035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205204036	It's like this. 18,000 Greenlanders in Denmark, and for us Greenlanders the church has always been very important in different contexts. Soul sorrow is also important to us. Soul grief is a great service that you give to the individual person a service that others cannot provide. To be allowed to go to church service and burial and to hear his own language, to be married in the church in his own language and to be allowed to have a funeral in the language of the deceased is very important. In this context, the Danish National Church today only contributes to one Greenlandic priest to the 18,000 Greenlandic souls in Denmark. That's very bad. And since they also pay church taxes, I think it would be perfectly natural to give them a fair approach to the church where they have the opportunity to use their own language, just as we do in Greenland to Danish-speaking congregations. The Greenlandic population gives the Danish-speaking Danish-speaking priests so that they can speak and hear their own language in the church. For us it is not a question; it is a benefit that you give to your citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205204145	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205204147	Thank you. I think we should meet outside this Chamber and then find some possible funding for it. Because the problem is precisely that when the Greenlanders live so scattered, they pay church taxes in many different parishes, and how do we get joint funding for the additional need that I understand there is?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205204205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205204206	In the context of the financial law negotiations, I have also pointed out to him several times the times I have met with the former Minister of Finance. It turns out that there are no funds, the funding there. It is in the priority given by the church in Denmark. So there we have a good job that we can all work together on, also for the benefit of the Greenlandic congregation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205204229	We thank Mrs Aleqa Hammond and move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Aleqa Hammond. Tórbjørn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205204238	First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Prime Minister on the new government. • What was is the same as what is coming, what happened, is the same as what will happen; there is nothing new under the sun. ▪ Ecclesiastes chapter 1, verse 9. Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen's new VLAK government has confirmed that Solomon's wise words are forever valid. Domestic policy has had a less liberal wind, but on foreign policy there is nothing new under the sun. The Danish possession in the North Atlantic, the Faroe Islands, is parked in the government base at the status quo, where the crows turn; here the invading of neoliberalism has not yet taken place. If anything, you now see a sneaking narrowing in relation to the political scope of the home regime until now, and it has been, and remains the policy of the Danish state in the future, whether we are blessed with a blue or a red government. There may be rhetorical differences, whether in government or in opposition, but as soon as one or the other approaches power, we must assume that the policy goes in one with the state wallpaper, which as the first item on the agenda intends to hold firmly to the possessions of the North Atlantic, which fully secures Denmark a place in the geopolitical order and a seat where power, among other things. In the Arctic, must be placed. Voltaire must have said and argued that half a century may pass between the historical gap that gives people in a country the opportunity to make major and necessary changes in society. The objective prerequisites for change lie as a sparkly volcano just below the surface of the Faroese population, in the economy and out in society, but the subjective and political action in the independence struggle has not been achieved, and this is mostly due to the snug Danish euphoricisation and materialisation of the Faroese political system through financial refunds and block support since the infancy of the Home Rule Order. But that time will soon be over, as the transfer of money from the Danish Treasury is locked in crowns and ears, shaved for price development, while the Faroese economy is growing. We see the light at the end of the tunnel, as the dematerialisation of external funds and decolonisation seem to go hand in hand with the Faroe Islands. On the last page of the VLAK government, we are told that the government wants a strong community between Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland. Here, the development of an equal and trusting cooperation in mutual respect has been drawn out in relation to the Government of the Left Government of June 2015. It also says that the government respects that there is a desire for a constitution in the Faroe Islands, but this must be contained within the framework of the Kingdom Community, otherwise it can create uncertainty about the current constitutional position of the Faroe Islands in the kingdom; that the government wants a close dialogue with the Faroe Islands about Brexit and stresses that the interests of the whole Kingdom community are taken into account in the forthcoming negotiations; that the government wants constructive cooperation with the Faroe Islands; and that the government prioritises close cooperation in the Kingdom Community on the Arctic. The rhetoric is unmistakable. We also want to continue to live a geopolitical life on the international political scene, where cherries are eaten together with the greats through the North Atlantic possessions. The classic chorus and empty slogan of equal and trusting cooperation in mutual respect has found itself in the soundtape this new fashion replacement: a strong community between countries. The Faroe Islands' application for full membership of Nordic co-operation the other day is the latest example of the political limitation in the Danish Home Rule regime in the Faroe Islands being a hopeless size. The application was brutally dealt with in Keflavík when the Danish President of the Bureau swept the proposal off the track on the grounds that the Danish constitution stood in the way of an equal Faroese membership. This is in stark contrast to the efforts of Happy Anker Jørgensen in 1980 when, as then Danish Prime Minister, he retabled the proposal, which Mr Patursson had made some years before, in the Nordic Council. Anno 2016 is a clear signal that inequality must be maintained by the fact that the bird has had enough space, air and manure in the colonial cage, although the Danish constitution is the same under Løkke Rasmussen's regime now in 2016 as the one that was in force under Anker Jørgensen's regime in 1980. The idea of Nordic co-operation as a political and cultural cooperation between the Nordic nations has been given a huge slap, as the constitution of one of the nations is now used as a strangulation instrument against another nation in the club of the Nordic nations. Our foreign policy matters are very limited in the law on the conclusion of international agreements by the Faroe Islands' Home Rule Government. It is mostly a colonial detention in which three national foreign affairs have even been linked, although such forced harmonisation is in fact impossible, because the countries are very different in size and in terms of international interests. The Faroe Islands' mackerel feud with the EU and thus Denmark is not surpassed in disharmony, and our demand for the allocation of a legitimate part of the stock resulted in an aggressive trade and fishing war with a European and thus Danish embargo. The Prime Minister regretted our trade with Russia the other day, but this is only a consequence of the embargo and is largely a Faroese survival move and ditto effort in a very difficult time. It is believed from the Danish side that the war could have been avoided if only the Faroe Islands had already joined the EU. We have no intention of doing so at this stage. The sovereign right to the fishing zone, 275,000 km 2 Just the idea of the current state of the situation, if we had joined the EEC in the early 1970s, is frightening and would today and for all future opportunities be an economic disaster. The EU is important, also for the Kingdom Community, says the Prime Minister. The government is said to want a close dialogue with the Faroe Islands and Greenland on Britain's withdrawal from the EU, and it attaches great importance to the interests of the whole Kingdom community being taken into account in the forthcoming negotiations. This verb is most similar to what my old sailor at the Faroe Islands Navigation School, Republican, Landsretsprofessor, poet and politician Blessed Sigurð Joensen would describe as a contradictio in adjecto. When we asked him what he thought of the ideology of the Left Sister Party of the Sambands, he replied promptly that the question included a logical contradiction, namely that something was attributed to something which was incompatible with the concept. It was as relevant to talk about a square circle or a married bachelor as to talk about that party's ideology, for it simply did not exist. What powers does the EU have to negotiate with Britain on the interests of the Faroe Islands, for example? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on fisheries issues, we are not in a position to understand, and that sounds like an immense historical paradox. The tracks scare us, therefore, this is a non-opportunity. The Constitution, which is being worked on in the Faroe Islands, seems to have high priority in the Danish state machinery. We knew that in advance. The new thing is that the Prime Minister makes his special troops available for discussion during the work now being prepared in the Faroe Islands. The starting point is and remains that the Faroese people alone have ownership of the Matrik Faroe Islands. Period. The human thought is undoubtedly always determined by the conditions of a certain epoch. A well-known politician has said that even when it is a political genius, he would dare to claim that he was determined by his time, and he continued: In the days of Katharina Lenin would have been an energetic advocate of Russian citizenship; had José Martí lived when Havana was taken by the English, he would have defended the Spaniards; and Napoleon, Mirabeau, Danton or Robespierre, if they had lived in the days of Charlemagne, probably would have been nothing but humble gloat workers in the outermost series of potato or ignorant patrons of some dark feudal castle. The Danish Government is a product of its contemporaries and not least of the history of a shrunken empire. We live in an untenable political situation that limits the Faroe Islands in far too many areas, and therefore I express the same wish as the poet Jóanes Nielsen: But the only thing that really gives return and what I have deep confidence in is the daily beautiful wear and tear for life. From there comes the dream of the Republic of the Faroe Islands, and from there are my words. Tjóðveldi expects new brave times to come, but the basis of this government makes it clear that it will be without the help of the government Løkke Rasmussen, and it was not now a factor that we had included in this future political solitaire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205205248	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, first it is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205205256	Thank you for that and thank you for today's most energetic speech. There is no doubt that the Faroe Islands and Greenland make the kingdom of Denmark significantly larger, but that is why I would of course still wish you luck with the constitutional process that has been initiated. There is no doubt that the Faroe Islands have the right to self-determination, and we support this on the part of the Enhedslisten. What I would like to ask the rapporteur a little is like the economic perspectives of independence. I know it has been a major debate in the Faroe Islands, but it could be quite interesting if the rapporteur would touch on it a little today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205205341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205205343	Thank you. First of all, let me say that we cannot talk from hundreds of years of community between our two countries. But it is so that for approx. 120-130 years ago, a process of autonomy began in the Faroe Islands, which has developed into a process of secession. It ends with the Home Rule Act, but, as you all know, we are going to be financially bankrupt in 1992, where we are going to go completely bankrupt, with full block grants, and 7 000 are fleeing the country. After that, we begin to re-establish society in order to patch it up, including economically, and this has, among other things, been the case. As a result, attempts are being made at the present time to reorganize fishing, which is the dominant industry together with salmon farming, and to make value creation far greater than it is at present. And, as you know, if the block subsidy had not been regulated in 2003, it would have been 2 billion. kr. Today. But now it's down to 600 million. kr., and that's our wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205205458	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205205500	Thank you. There is no doubt that this is actually a very, very interesting process. Unfortunately, we see around, not only in the Faroe Islands, but also generally in Denmark and elsewhere, that natural resources are taken by very few people who sit on them. I would therefore like to wish you every success in the process of restructuring fisheries, so much more will be involved than has been the case so far. So good luck with that process forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205205533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205205534	I would say that now I am a Republican myself or a member of Tjóðveldi, who aims to establish the Faroese state. But even if we do not share that view, we should, for example, have to. in the Faroe Islands, at least share the view that you should be able to stand on your own financially, for everything else is completely demoralising for a society and makes us get into situations like the one we got out in 1992.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205205607	Then it's mr. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205205610	Thank you for that, and thank you for an extremely passionate speech, which one could really sense that there was a heart behind it. The political majority in the Faroe Islands, including the rapporteur, would like to know how I now understand the rapporteur's independence very clearly. But I can also understand from very dew-fresh polls that a small majority of the people in the Faroe Islands do not actually want independence. What is the rapporteur's assessment of this fresh poll? And does this not actually mean that the Faroese Government is not in sync with the Faroese population?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205205648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205205649	First of all, I do not represent the Land government or the Latting, but only my own party, because I am not in the Latting, nor am I in the national government, but I am the mayor of the third largest city in the country. However, I do not usually place such emphasis on gallery surveys that I believe that the Faroese course should be able to be set in the future, depending on what Gallup finds out today, and it may well be that the same study in one week makes a completely different sense. For I certainly believe that a great many of those who have answered have completely misunderstood the question. Because they are counting on the condition we are today, but what was asked was: What will you do if there were no monetary matters between Denmark and the Faroe Islands? And I think we're gonna get to a whole different situation there. But it's probably a few years in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205205754	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205205756	Thanks for the answer to that. In the case of independence, how does the rapporteur foresee that sovereignty will be exercised in the Faroe Islands? And perhaps the rapporteur can also make an assessment of the defence alliances that would then be concluded in the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205205814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205205816	I was part of the coalition that sat in the government of the Faroe Islands from 1998-2003; it was the government that tried to establish a Faroese state, and there were many considerations about how to ally itself in the North Atlantic to ensure that as small a country as we are after all was in as safe hands as possible. Among other things, they had: discussions with NATO and other parts of the North Atlantic, so that all those things would be basically the same as they are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205205900	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205205905	Thank you. I heard the rapporteur's speech as an energetic shitty fall. Perhaps you should not say that, but that is how it was perceived. I would like to ask the rapporteur: is there anything at all that the rapporteur can highlight as good or well-functioning in the Kingdom Community?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205205927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205205929	After all, I have not commented on the government base at all on the internal political aspect, because I do not believe that the Faroese politicians should interfere in what is done in Denmark at home, and therefore I do not believe that the Danes should interfere in what we do in the Faroe Islands. I don't think it was a shitty fall at all. I just thought it was an honest opinion from someone who wants the Faroe Islands to be an independent state, what he thinks about the conditions between the Faroe Islands and Denmark, and I think that history shows that I am right in that the Danish handling has not been particularly...
ParlaMint-DK_20161205210015	Then that's the questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205210020	As a follow-up to Mr. Carsten Bach's question I would like to ask the rapporteur: when do the Faroe Islands expect to be declared a republic?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205210031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205210033	Better today than tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205210039	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205210043	As has been mentioned here, I have also attached myself to the opinion poll which Mr. Tórbjørn Jacobsen concludes that it is probably nothing. In fact, 505 people in the Faroe Islands have been asked. That is a great many when it comes to opinion polls. That's 1 per cent, so it's representative on a large scale. That is more a statement than a question. Maybe sir should. Tórbjørn Jacobsen use his energy in the Faroe Islands to convince his own people that this is a good idea, rather than giving us a shitty fall here in the Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205210117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205210119	As a politician, I am part of a process that has gone over 120 years, so a Gallup Survey will not move my opinion at all in this area because I see that we are still gone and believe that we are still in the process. Where the light in the tunnel is at the moment, I cannot say that immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205210146	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205210148	That is all well and good, but we do not agree that it is in the Faroe Islands that Mr. Tórbjørn Jacobsen should hold his fire speeches and not here? To tell you the truth, what have we done? What has Denmark actually done that can excite Mr. Tórbjørn Jacobsen like that? Go up to the Faroe Islands and convince the people of the rapporteur that this is a good idea, and then we must take it from there in a proper way, not in this rude way that has been used today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205210218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205210220	Well, my good Søren Espersen, I'm not the one who asked to come down here to make a speech. It is the Danish people who, in a constitutional amendment in 1953, have offered me to come down here and give this speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205210239	Sir. Thomas Danielsen, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205210243	Thank you. You will not be notified of the next question as long in advance as from 1953, but I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on the Arctic Council. It is true that the Danish Government is very enthusiastic about the Kingdom and the cooperation with the Faroe Islands, but we do so in such a way that we share the speaking time in the Arctic Council between the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Denmark, because we have a large number of common interests in this matter. I would like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur think that the Faroese interests will be better cared for by the Faroe Islands having to speak and negotiate against Denmark, Greenland and the rest of the Arctic countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205210329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205210330	No, that is, I fully respect the political conditions in force. There should be no doubt about that. But what I said in the speech was that Denmark is only part of the Arctic through its North Atlantic possessions. I guess there's no doubt about that. Whether Greenland and the Faroe Islands could do as well as Denmark, yes, I do not doubt that at all. I'll tell you what. But, as I said, I respect the state of affairs we are in in the political sphere, and therefore there are three countries currently in this coalition within the Danish Kingdom as long as it holds in the current constellation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205210416	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205210418	I fully understand that our love for the Faroe Islands immediately seems greater than that of the rapporteur, i.e. the Republican love for Denmark. But I also have a question as to whether the rapporteur can see any advantage in the Faroe Islands negotiating against the interests of both Denmark and Greenland and the rest of the Arctic countries, in other words as a single country. Secondly, I would like to ask the rapporteur, since we are talking about border barriers: we have in the Left and in the Sambands party, and I think I am speaking on behalf of the whole parliament, an interest in removing as many border barriers between the Faroe Islands and Denmark as possible. What is the rapporteur's recommendation to take care of, in other words, to throw away his love for border barriers? Now we have removed a barrier that was in relation to the CPR legislation. Denmark has just secured an arrangement with the current government which removes some of the many barriers in the area of cpr. What would the rapporteur call for Denmark to embark on as its next task?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205210517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205210520	I just have to stick to this because there is no more time, but let me take up what I asked the Prime Minister a few days ago in this Chamber. So, the economic growth in the Faroe Islands was asked here today. And I would say that if we do not have a better trade agreement with the European Union, it is the worst trade agreement any country has with the European Union at all. At the same time, Denmark, together with the rest of the EU, is entering into a free trade agreement with the big fish exporter Canada, which is going to give an unfair strain on the European market, which will result in the prices of Faroese export products falling. But nothing is being done, at least not on the Danish side as an EU member, to remedy that situation. On the contrary, the only answer was given: you can just join the European Union. But we don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205210623	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205210626	Now it is the case that both the Faroe Islands and Denmark are in the Arctic Council because of Greenland, and in the moment Greenland declares itself independent, all parts of the empire will have a completely different role to play, also with regard to the Arctic Council and any request for observer status. Having said that, I think it is very important that we in the Danish Parliament also represent the Kingdom community in full and with respect for our diversity, our language and way of dealing with things. I also think it is very important that we are allowed to show a little diversity in both speech and views, and that we do not therefore call it a shitty fall. I think it is incredibly important if the Kingdom community is to have good relations with each other and until that is the case, I also think that there should be room and space for understanding the way in which one handles one's own policy on the home front. I think that would be quite appropriate and worthy of the whole Kingdom community. It was just a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205210728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205210730	As such, that was a comment. But the question is whether the Faroe Islands are not part of the Arctic, at least we have seen maps where the Faroe Islands are designed in such a way that we are part of it. However, I fully agree with Mrs Aleqa Hammond that equality could sometimes be greater. Now there was talk of crap just before, but I'd say that every day it works pretty much. But it's three different processes going on in these three countries. So it is to be expected that there will sometimes be a knot in the cooperation which is now to take place in a kingdom that has existed for so long.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205210830	Thank you to Tórbjørn Jacobsen. And the next rapporteur is Sjúrður Skaale from Javnaðarflokkurin. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205210840	Thank you for that, President. Then I think I'll turn up the sound level a little bit. No, we don't. We'll turn it down a little bit, but I hope I can be heard anyway. It's the state that's protecting us. The state is the great umbrella that allows us to live in peace and security. That is what a Christian bishop said, whom I visited with the Foreign Policy Name in the autumn. The state, he spoke of the great protector of a Christian minority called the Islamic Republic of Iran. With us, democracy has long been a plus word. What is democratic is good. What is undemocratic is bad. Many people have thought this way in the Middle East. But now they have seen democracy unfold in, for example. Egypt, and the tracks are scaring. For some groups, dictatorships are cruel, but the will for rebellion is not as strong as it was a few years ago. Several today will sacrifice personal freedom and instead, through daily life, make a kind of unwritten pact with the regimes in return for security and stability. In the Western world too, democracy has been set against the obvious advantage of a more authoritarian form of government over the past year. In China, things are going well, many will say. In China, management can make long-term, well-considered strategic decisions without thinking about the price to be paid at the next elections. In Denmark, the 2025 plan could not even be adopted because democracy's need for party political marking got in the way. Russia too can be planned. The long-term ambition to turn Russia back into a great power can be followed without interference from a critical press and an aggressive opposition, which sees it as its purpose to constantly pull down the country's leadership. And in the West, frighteningly many see the strong Putin as a model. Because in democratic Europe things are not going so well. We cannot plan so well, because we must use our strength to put out the fires that are being created in the name of democracy. And even if we manage to save the European House from the Brexit brand, we can have a Le Pen brand next year. We usually look to the United States for leadership, but democracy has now caused so much chaos that no one has any idea what the management thinks or wants. It was quite unpleasant to see an American election campaign in which tens of thousands of people and voters were sloping the lock here up, and where both the free press and freedom of religion were made enemies. It was the strong man who was called. People can see that dictatorships are on a steady path, while the democracies of the West are wandering around like a man who, after too long a bodega visit, has completely lost direction. The voters are angry and frustrated. They've been before. But sometimes good leaders have succeeded in converting the energy that lies in the anger into something constructive for the same voters. Not this time. We can take Brexit. Was that logical? Was it rational? Was it considered? Was it thought through? Was there a clear goal? Did the British even know what they were doing? No. It was people who advocated the anger and frustration of the masses, but there was and is not a constructive project. We can say exactly the same about the choice of Trump and about what might happen in France next year. Democracy is the least bad form of government, we used to say. Now more and more people believe that there must be a better way of taking collective decisions than through the laborious, expensive, inefficient and irrational democratic process. That is why it is incumbent on all democratic governments and all elected representatives at all to prove that the system can work; that it does not exist for its own sake or for the sake of the elite. The challenge is also clear within Scandinavia. In Iceland, participation in the elections on 30 October was historically low. The rich country went bankrupt under a democratic regime in 2008. Now more than five weeks have passed since the elections and you are not so much close to having something similar to a government. The people have voted, but no one has any idea what course to take in the next few years. The many who did not vote today must ask themselves: what would that have helped? The problem is not passive voters. The problem is that the participation of the electorate is water on a mill that is rusted. Democracy as a system and even as an idea is in crisis. And history tells us it's a very serious thing. The English author Robert Harris has written a magnificent three volume work about Cicero, the great philosopher and speaker who experienced the time of Rome's democratic glory and who saw how democracy, with its slow processes and internal power struggles, could not protect itself and therefore ended up in dictatorship and tyranny under Caesar. Shortly before Cicero is executed, Harris lets him say these words: The Roman Republic with its division of power, with its annual free elections, its courts and jurys, its balance between the Senate and the people, its freedom of thought and speech is the noblest creation of mankind, and I would rather lie in the dust and choke in my own blood than betray the principle on which everything stands, and it is first and last and always: the rule of law, that is, the Rule of Law. But as you know, Cicero was executed, and the noble creation was destroyed. And it was a historic tragedy. So, in the broad picture, European, global, historical • it is very good in this country. From the same great picture, I really do want the new government to be so strong and so active and so concerned about representing all the electorate that confidence in the institutions and the principles on which they are based remains strong. Denmark needs this trust, and the world needs a model. It gives the government a great responsibility in terms of domestic policy, foreign policy and in the middle of the kingdom community. On the whole, the Kingdom community works well. And I would also like to thank the outgoing government for a fine dialogue and good will to find solutions. But the fact that the will was there does not mean that the solutions were found in all fields. I will contact the Minister for Social Affairs as soon as possible to ensure that work on removing border barriers between countries continues. We've come a long way, but not all the way. I would also like to raise the issue of the state's performance of its tasks in the Faroe Islands with the relevant ministers. Prison conditions, for example, are: Not good enough in the Faroe Islands. It is one of the obligations of the state that is neglected. And I have already sent the Foreign Minister a number of questions about his position on the rights of the Faroe Islands internationally. We now have the so-called DFG scheme, which means that where Denmark is not represented, Greenland or the Faroe Islands or Greenland and the Scheme can be based on the principle and idea that Denmark's Kingdom is a single state which is indivisible and therefore can only have one opinion and one voice internationally. Every time new politicians come to the offices of the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, they are presented with this position from the office, and then they stick to it in speech and in deed. So far this has been the case. The problem is that this policy is based on a formalism that is far away from reality. I have mentioned before the example of the sanctions imposed by the EU and therefore Denmark against the Faroe Islands in 2013. This was an excellent example of Denmark no longer being the unitary state described by the Constitution, because a unitary state cannot sanction part of itself. Another example is the cooperation of the North-East Atlantic Fisheries Management Organisation (NEAFC). The organisation is relevant for both the Faroe Islands and Greenland, but we must not have separate representation, because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs believes that we will break the unity state. The Faroe Islands and Greenland, although they disagree with it, must adopt the same position in order to prevent the Kingdom from having two positions. But at the table is also the European Union, such as the United States. represent Denmark. Denmark therefore already has two international voices in this context. Then why can't you have three? As I understand it, the other NEAFC members would not object to such a scheme. The problem lies in the Danish official work and in the fact that Danish ministers make the formalism of officials far too blindly their policy rather than making a political decision themselves based on reality and the needs that exist. It is the government's great responsibility to prove that democracy is functioning, including democracy in the Kingdom community. And democracy does not work if the Faroe Islands cannot pursue their own wishes and needs in this area. When you feel in the Faroe Islands that in Copenhagen there is a system that lives its own life, exists for itself and has no other purpose than itself, then faith in the system that we have is undermined. So when I congratulate the new government, and I hereby do so now, it is also with a desire that we jointly move things in this field. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205211909	You're welcome. The first brief remark is from Mr. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205211915	Thanks for the speech. It is now a little late, and unfortunately my originality is running out, so I would just like to give the rapporteur the opportunity to comment on the opinion poll, which was also mentioned earlier. It is very dew-fresh, and it then shows that a small majority of the Faroese population does not actually want independence, and I know that belongs to Mr. Sjúrður Skaale is a party which is at least in favour of a process of independence in the Faroe Islands. I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205211953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205211955	Thank you. The party to which I belong is usually referred to as a cohesion party. We have a very pragmatic approach to the Kingdom community, and if we believe that the Kingdom community gives the individual generation greater security, greater wealth, greater freedom, we are in favour of the Kingdom community, and we believe that this is the case today. We also believe that if we separate from Denmark today, as matters stand, the Faroe Islands will become less independent than we are today with the arrangement we have. That is why we are in favour of the Kingdom community as it is now, and that is a pragmatic approach. If things change, for example, if Denmark. We want to change our position, starting to legislate in the Faroe Islands and depriving the Faroe Islands of the autonomy that we have. But as it is now, we believe that we are making the most of being in the community that we are in, because it works well.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205212044	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205212046	Thank you for that investigation. I would also like to give the rapporteur the opportunity, in the event of independence for the Faroe Islands, to give an assessment of how sovereignty is to be exercised for the Faroe Islands and what defence alliances might be made in the event of independence.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205212106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205212107	It is a very hypothetical question, but in that case there is no doubt that the Faroe Islands should of course be a NATO country as we are now. We would also have to be in a different context when it comes to the financial sector and everything. We would have to be part of all sorts of contexts, and I actually believe that we would end up with less autonomy than we now have.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205212136	Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205212139	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for a very good speech. I am, of course, very pleased that the rapporteur says that the Community of Kingdoms is a good thing to be part of. That's what I think it is. But I also hear that the rapporteur says that there are some problems with being able to sound his voice. What is the rapporteur's solution to the challenges of the Kingdom Community speaking with one voice?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205212211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205212213	We have such a law of foreign policy authorization, which states that where Denmark is not represented and has no special interests, Greenland and the Faroe Islands can be represented, and in principle it is a fine arrangement. The problem is, for example, with regard to fisheries management between the countries in the north-east Atlantic. It is clear that the countries disagree, and Greenland and the Faroe Islands can of course also sometimes disagree, and there is a problem that one is forced to speak with one voice when one disagrees. It would be no problem at all for anyone to say that it is being solved more so that the Faroe Islands can have their voice and Greenland can have its voice. It does not affect anyone at all and, as I understand it, the other countries would not mind either. It is only such a concrete interpretation of the provisions of the Constitution that has been stuck in the official work that says that it is not possible, and it cannot be done. However, as I said, we have moved beyond that, and we are represented many times, where Denmark has a voice and the Faroe Islands a voice in the same organisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205212326	Sir. Tórbjørn Jacobsen from Tjóðveldi.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205212331	Now I know so much about the later part of the speech, but I certainly think that the first part of the speech was very, very relevant, and now Cicero was quoted as saying that those who do not set a course in life will never experience that they are getting wind, no matter what wind direction should otherwise be, and there was talk of the crisis of democracy, and there were many examples of how wrong things are currently going around the world. Does the rapporteur have any opinion on what the problem is and can he, in the societies in which he travels, both in the Faroe Islands and here in Denmark, see an emerging problem in our countries where, in particular, the younger people have problems with an understanding of what democracy is and what democratic values are?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205212436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205212438	Well, it's a very, very comprehensive question. It is clear that, when I was young, it was so that everyone had the same questions, everyone had about the same understanding of the state of things, everyone read the same newspapers and so on. Now there are many people sitting in the so-called echo boxes on Facebook. They only hear their own opinions, they only reflect their own opinions, they never hear what others think of anything, and that is why we have a whole lot of small parallel societies, and that is what undermines a common project like democracy. That is certainly one of the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205212512	The next brief remark is from Mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205212522	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Following the question hour for approx. Two weeks ago we would like to ask the rapporteur: what then, sir? Mr Sjúrður Skaale how are you? However, it may well be that I am going to elaborate on my question so that it is not so general. Back from the measles challenges of the mid-18th century, problems have been solved by isolation. I understand that the rapporteur is not in favour of the Faroe Islands simply isolating themselves, unlike the previous rapporteur from the Faroe Islands, who thought that all the problems could be solved along these lines. I would like to hear from the rapporteur: in relation to the challenges facing the Faroe Islands which the rapporteur sees and which he wishes to see promoted, what are some proposals we can look forward to here in the Folketing of the rapporteur's party?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205212616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205212618	One of the proposals is, as I said, that we will sort out a little in the foreign policy authorisation law so that the Faroe Islands will have more opportunity to act on their own behalf. It will certainly help, and it will also strengthen the feeling that we are a good community, we have space and so on. I do not think there has to be any contradiction between community and autonomy. I think they are each other's prerequisites, quite clearly. As I said, isolation, secession, as things stand at the moment, will certainly lead to less autonomy, as I see it. But this means that in a dialogue between Denmark and the Faroe Islands, you will find out how to make the string as long as possible, so that you can feel that you can pursue your own interests. And there are therefore some obstacles which are based on a formalism which, in my view, is completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205212710	The questioner? No. Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Sjúrður Skaale, and then it is a great pleasure for me to welcome the esteemed Prime Minister, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. He's welcome to the platform now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205212745	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate. It has been long and peaceful, very, very peaceful, and then it got some energy here in the end when Mr. Tórbjørn Jacobsen came to the platform. I didn't see it as a shitty fall, I saw it as a real commitment, and I shall return to that, but it was at least energy-creating, and people listened. We did the same when Mrs. Mette Abildgaard made a speech built up over Danish hits over the ages, and then I thought about what best describes this debate, and then the Pussy Boys came to mind: "Then time went by with it and it did. We got something to use the time for/So time went by with it/put nothing at stake, and maybe that's the last thing I'd like to do, because of course you could have wanted now, when the election fever has settled and elections will only come in the summer of 2019, that this debate would be the new start, where people dared to go out on the ice and try it out, so that you could see the contours of new cooperation patterns. But it may be my own fault, because I have talked so much about that now we have made up the ice age in Danish politics and there has been a thaw, and of course you do not dare go out on the ice. I understand. Yet, because there has been a debate where there has been such a focus on various problems very inspired by what has just been on TV 2 here this past week's time with focus on our nursing home. I just wanted to say at my own expense that we knew that, even before TV 2 brought some stuff. That is why the government has organized itself with an elderly minister who has dedicated the task. I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Sjúrður Skaale here finally put things in perspective and looked at Denmark from the outside, from the Faroe Islands, and said that in global, European, historical perspective, Denmark is actually a very good country, because you might be able to sit back with another impression when you had listened to everything that does not work. And, of course, there are things that don't work. It certainly is. Our task is then to get something done about it, and that is also what the government's ambition is. That is why we have created a very ambitious government base that sets the direction towards a freer, richer and more secure Denmark. I think it has been a rather special debate because, on the one hand, we have, among other things, a debate. This debate on conditions in some of the country's nursing homes is most marked by the fact that the elderly minister has got the impression that the municipalities have to shoulder the responsibility that is now theirs in a country with local government autonomy. On the other hand, Mrs Mette Frederiksen speaks for a change in her fingers, that is to say that we should not interfere, and that might actually mean that we were just watching over what the division of responsibilities is in our society. On the one hand, we have had a very specific debate on the conditions of a very specific maternity ward in the Rigshospitalet and, on the other hand, we have not heard a single pip, except perhaps from the political rapporteur of the Left, who has pointed the arrow to where the responsibility really lies, namely at the regional court in Hillerød, where a Social Democratic Regional Council chairman, Mrs Sophie Hæstrup Andersen, is at the forefront. That is where the responsibility lies. On the one hand, there has been criticism of the government's plans, they have not yet rolled out in all detail, but in other words for safety reasons, and we could also hear that SF's chairman, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, has beaten all Danish records in quick reading, and that the party was even able to publish on the party's website a criticism of the government's basis before we published it. So, on the one hand, we have heard it and, on the other hand, the opposition does not present a single coherent suggestion as to which alternative plan would be better, where we have had a debate for 111⁄2 hours. If you listen to it a little, you can at least understand that on the other side of the midline of Danish politics there is no coherence in the views at all. Well, it should not shadow that I think it has been a nice day, a lovely afternoon and a lovely evening, which is first and foremost a clear indication that there is peace and happiness. Perhaps it is so for some that the air has gone a bit off the balloon; now you thought you should blow up balloons and there should be an election campaign, and it shouldn't be anyway. So there is such a bit of weakness in some places, but I now choose to welcome it, and I also welcome the fact that this somewhat deadlocked parliamentary situation that we faced a few weeks ago is no longer there. Now it is quite quiet to think long-term; perhaps it will not be right today, but there will also be a day tomorrow. These are the days that have not been there yet, I had to understand that there is an opportunity to take co-responsibility and, above all, an opportunity to lay out their own plans openly. After all, I used Thursday to make a statement on government policy, a relatively thorough statement, and this has been the subject of some debate here today, and I think that is a welcome debate, but I must admit that I may have come into this morning with the rather vain hope that on the other side of the Assembly there would be some good, concrete answers to the great challenge of the time: how can we equip all Danes to become the winners of globalisation? I think I have listened carefully for 11 hours and 35 minutes, but I am still completely unanswered as to what the opposition leader's goal is for Denmark. What is the objective of prosperity that we will set for Denmark in 5 years, in 10 years' time? Are we just gonna float with the current, or are we gonna dream bigger, taller? Should we set operational targets? I don't know, I haven't heard an answer. Right must be right. Someone received a clear answer from Mrs Mette Frederiksen. It was sir. Morten Østergaard. He asked about the educational ceiling and was given a fully-fledged defence of the decision we have taken together with the Social Democratic Party. I'm kind of happy about that. But besides that, you don't get many answers. Instead, we have tried to provide this on the basis that we put forward, of which I am, in my view, very proud, and which is based on a number of points: firstly, to renew and improve nuclear welfare. After all, it comes on top of a financial agreement that we concluded a few weeks ago with the three parties that now make up the government, and the Danish People's Party, which is the parliamentary basis under this government, and which puts an historically large amount of money into cancer treatment as concrete evidence that we want to strengthen the core welfare of our society. It is, after all, the same attitude that we have towards the elderly. This contrasts with the government we had before, not the one we just had, but the one we had before the parliamentary elections, which, after all, agreed with the municipalities a reduction in service costs in the municipalities, so less money was agreed that the municipalities should have. In contrast to this, we have set aside a dignified billion and we have, precisely in the last financial agreement, further strengthened the area of elderly people by 2 billion. kr. This is an expression of our desire to strengthen the area of the elderly. This is also why, after having had a both senior and health minister since the last parliamentary election in the Ministry, we now have two people, so that we can get the dedicated focus on the part about the elderly area, and already tomorrow afternoon, the older minister meets with the National Association of Municipalities to discuss together and hopefully reach an agreement on how we can now systematically work to tear down the barriers that prevent a good job solution in the municipalities. After all, we all know that it is not just about resources; it is also very much about how resources are being put into play. There are nursing homes which, for a given resource consumption, are able to create well-being among the elderly, well-being among the staff, low sick leave through good management, and there are other nursing homes where, with the same, perhaps even with more resources, you are not able to achieve the same goals. That is why we now need to focus on trusting more in the professional skills of public employees, managing something more on objectives and some less process. That is why we must now focus on public sector governance. That is why the government wants to set up a management commission. That is why for the first time, as long as I remember, we have two ministers in the Ministry of Finance, namely the Finance Minister and a minister who can dedicate this effort to public innovation, because it does not come naturally. It's not enough just to keep your hands off me. In other words, if we are to free the public sector, and that is the ambition of the government, we must get our hands on it and get our hands on it. Secondly, we must ensure good conditions for our businesses so that they can generate growth. Nor have I heard anything else in this Chamber today but that there is a relatively broad consensus behind that. Perhaps it is in fact the case that all 179 members of the Folketing can be taken into account for the view that it is a good idea that Danish companies have good conditions. So I guess there really is only one question that divides us: how can we afford it all? And that is where I hope that now that the electoral fever has been defeated, we can come together to have decisions taken that will enable growth to flow. Because we want companies that are well advanced in international competition, and that requires good business conditions. This requires us to look at where we have a tax structure that differs from what is seen in other countries and how we can relax it. This requires that we simplify the rules and take decisions that allow us to invest more in digitisation, in infrastructure. This requires us to look at how we can better support entrepreneurship and secure capital for small start-ups. I would like to sign for what the Alternative's rapporteur, among other things. was saying that we need to develop a much more entrepreneurial culture in Denmark. The government will make concrete proposals for this. It also requires, of course, the courage to take the reform adjustment decisions needed to free up the resources that can be targeted to improve the framework conditions for our business community. And I hope so in the spring. Moreover, it is also in the light that the new three-clover government has set the very ambitious goal that by 2030 we must have at least half of our energy consumption covered by renewable energy • compared to today, when the share is around 29 per cent. This is a very ambitious objective, and it is also operational. This is a relevant way to create climate and energy objectives because it means that we can support green development without turning our backs on the opportunities it offers that we actually have a very efficient energy supply in Denmark. Otherwise, we would end up in the baroque situation that every time Invest in Denmark succeeded in drawing, for example. data processing centres for Denmark, as has happened in Viborg, and as we hope it can happen elsewhere, we would remove ourselves further and further from the old way of setting climate targets. So it is ambitious, it is targeted, it ensures a green transition and it ensures that we can create jobs at the same time. Thirdly, we must have security for the landowners. I would like to take this opportunity to thank those parties which, prior to the financial agreement, took co-responsibility for setting up a new housing assessment system. I would also like to acknowledge here that the very same parties in that agreement and Mrs Mette Frederiksen repeated it here in the Parliament's speaking chair also have an ambition to follow up with now having a housing tax system that can provide security for the country's homeowners. As a new government, we will make our proposal at the beginning of the new year. This will be done on the basis of what is also stated in the government's constitution in the proposal which was on the table and which was, of course, quite well received. But, of course, it will be adjusted on points, and the new three-clover government, in particular, has laid the foundations for freezing the ground for the entire approach to the new housing tax system. But so, on my part, there is a positive acknowledgement that one has had a good interaction in the first half, if one can express it that way, and an ambition to play the second half finished. The government, by its very nature, is very much involved in this. Fourthly, we need to tighten up our approach to criminals. We need to strengthen our police. We need to tighten up the penalties for perilous crime. We need to step up our efforts against bikers and gangs. A number of people have mentioned that particular need, including: The political leader of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. And we look forward to continued and enhanced cooperation in this very field, which can also build on the good results we have agreed together in the Finance Act which has just come into effect. We then believe that the time has come to step back half a step and look at our entire penal system with fresh eyes. The Penal Code dates back to 1933, and of course it has been revised many times since then, but it is basically a very old legal structure that needs to be looked at in the seams. And that is why we want to set up a criminal code commission, so that we can modernise the old criminal code and ensure that it provides contemporary answers to the challenges of the time. It is also in this light that, in the new year, the government will present a proposal on how to combat juvenile delinquency in a way that balances the concern for the fight against crime committed by young people with an instrument of sanctions that ensures that young people have an opportunity to move forward in life. Fifthly, the government will pursue a balanced, realistic foreign policy. We've achieved results. Europe began last year, but it has certainly been tightened up. In particular, the benefits of integration have shown its effect, and it is one of the major, open questions in Danish politics, what will happen to it if there suddenly comes a different majority. It's kind of worked. That is why we can see that we now have asylum numbers that are lower than they have been for the last five years. These are solid results that must be maintained. This is also the reason why we have agreed on a number of measures in the financial agreement with the three government parties and the Danish People's Party, among others. an emergency brake, but also the reason why the government in our new government base is putting further austerity in place, and we are calling for a critical and concrete start to be made towards the Danish Presidency of the Council of Europe, where we challenge, as it were, a somewhat modernist interpretation of the European Convention on Human Rights, which has given us challenges in a number of concrete examples. Sixthly, we must bring all young people. They need a good start. I made a lot of it the other day. I'm not going to repeat everything. But it is quite obvious that if we want, and the government wants, to be a country that goes forward into the future and does not allow us to be intimidated by developments, but to take action after developments, then there is a special responsibility for bringing everyone along, and it is so today that the skills that are needed to engage in modern society are different than they may have been historically. So we have to grab the kids on the edge, and we have to do it in time. This is the reason why the government has proposed that we, and I am a little sad about the radical reservation of the idea that we are specifically stimulating those schools that have the greatest professional backlog to try new methods of which work. Because we know that there are things that work better than others, and we know that if you work with accelerated learning courses or other new methods, you can really move young people. The biggest single factor for social mobilization is to get professional skills in place. The money is enough to make a targeted effort at about 100 schools, but the perspective is much greater. For the perspective is that if 100 can flourish, the other schools in the country will look there and be inspired. That is the government's ambition. It is also the government's ambition that we bring the parents along. After all, there is no greater social policy achievement than lifting people from unemployment into the working community. For the same reason, we will be presenting a job reform II that follows up on what we have already agreed last year, so that the benefit of working, even if you take work to a relatively low income, then the idea of lowering the tax on the lowest labour income will be greater. I took note of the fact that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl agreed with the importance of it. In the same moment, before Christmas, the government will come up with a concrete proposal for a job premium for the longterm unemployed. It can then only be processed in the Folketing after Christmas, but it does not shake the fact that before Christmas it will be known exactly which job prize model the government will propose. For it is precisely now that things are developing quite nicely. Unemployment is falling, employment is rising all over the country. There are reports of incipient bottleneck problems, and it is right now that we need to create a special incentive for those on the edge of the labour market to grasp the opportunities that actually exist. It is also a well-known fact that, in the context of job reform II, we want to withdraw a significant number of Danes who today pay top tax from top tax. And this is, of course, linked to our political ambition to create conditions for our companies that enable them to engage in international competition, including in the international competition for specialised labour. Eighthly, we must equip everyone for the labour market of the future. Dear child has many names: globalisation, digitalization, automation, disruption, artificial intelligence, robots. The words fly freely in the air around our ears, and we are all uncertain what the consequences of everything we are in the middle of are. All we know is that the only constant thing is the change, and that, in some, creates an enormous ambition to grasp for the future and for others an anxiety and an insecurity which must be taken seriously and on which we must act. That is precisely why the government we had up to last Monday revived the tripartite instrument, made two tripartite agreements, even though the instrument was declared dead and buried under the previous government and thus made concrete agreements both for better integration and, above all, for more internships. This is also what makes us hopeful in the new government that we can continue along that path and have close cooperation with the social partners to solve some of the major challenges of the time. In fact, in a third phase of the negotiations on continuing training, focusing on how to ensure that we have a continuing training system that ensures that those who are in work while they are in working life can retain and expand the competences that make them work in five years' time, in 10 years, in 15 years' time. However, we are making it wider than it is by bringing together both the social partners, companies, experts, relevant ministers for a partnership on the labour market of the future, before Christmas, because we need to find new ways together for us as a country to seize the new opportunities and at the same time ensure that we get everyone involved in the development of wealth. I have, of course, taken note of a great commitment and interest outside the thick walls of the Castle about this initiative, and I hope that the positive way in which the outside world has accepted this initiative will also be contaminated by this Chamber. So my conclusion is that I am delighted and that the government is looking forward to cooperation in this Chamber. This also applies to North Atlantic Members: Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, Mrs Aleqa Hammond, Mr. Sjúrður Skaale and Mr. Tórbjørn Jacobsen. And I noted very well that one has been at the bottom of the words and thought that there was a phrase from the old government base which was not to be found in the new. But I can say, on behalf of the government, that the attitude of the Tripartite Government towards the Commonwealth and cooperation with the North Atlantic members is intact. We are warm supporters of the Kingdom community. It is based on equality, and we also want to have the positive relationship with the North Atlantic members, which makes a great deal of sense in our specific work. That also applies to Mr. Tórbjørn Jacobsen, who said that we were all rounded by the time we live in, that it had shaped us, and then one had to understand that it had shaped all sorts of things in the world. And I was wondering, what has shaped Mr. Tórbjørn Jacobsen? I Googled it, and then I could see that Mr. Tórbjørn Jacobsen was born the same year as we had rebelled in Klaksvík, and it must have put itself in the breast milk somehow because I have to promise that there was commitment. And when my wife's granddad gets pulled out in the debate and is used as a ram, I'm really gonna get all muzzled, but that's okay. I think that real commitment should be recognised and that was there. But until the day when the commitment comes through with such force that my children are forced into choosing passports, i.e. Faroese or Danish, I will continue to have the impression that all three countries • Faroe Islands, Greenland and Denmark • feel best in the Kingdom Community. And we will do everything we can to nurture it and in that way hopefully make our contribution to the Faroese people not using their right to self-determination to turn their backs on the rest of the Kingdom community. Well, tomorrow's a day we haven't tried yet as sir. Morten Østergaard's son used to say, and that's a good thing to say. Tomorrow's a day we haven't tried yet. That's right, and I'm already looking forward to a day we haven't tried yet. Our job is to make sure that this little country not only lasts a day we haven't tried yet, but for all the days we haven't tried yet, not just the year out or our time out, but generations ahead. And that requires solutions. This requires the courage to formulate challenges and to present clear answers. It also requires a cooperative government of the people. In this context, I would like to end by reading out a letter which I received the day after the US presidential elections. And it's not from the president-elect; I had a phone call with him. It is from a young Danish student named Lotte, and she has not only written to me; she has also written to Mrs Mette Frederiksen so we have both received this letter: Dear Lars Løkke Rasmussen and Mette Frederiksen. It's a long letter, it's a good letter, and I'm not reading it all up, but just a passage that I think is relevant: Dear Lars Løkke Rasmussen and Mette Frederiksen. I don't know much about politics, and frankly, I don't care who the Prime Minister is. What worries me is the election in the United States and the feeling that we ourselves are not better. After all, Danish politics today has become no more a question of personal matters and issues than of what is best for Denmark's future? I fear that Denmark's future will be built on key issues and that we will forget the whole. So here's my prayer to you: Fight together instead of against each other, create agreement across the middle, and low future-proof solutions. Give it a try, a lasting attempt. I do not know exactly what Mrs Mette Frederiksen has replied to Lotte, the student, but I myself replied, among other things, that I could not promise that I agreed with Mrs Mette Frederiksen in everything, but that we actually cooperate a great deal and probably more than according to the picture often and often drawn in the media. And that made me repeat what we have made of broad agreements in the Folketing since I became Prime Minister last June. That was so good enough for the previous government, but it is still relevant, because as such no parliamentary election has been held. We are still in this parliamentary term. And of the 60 or so agreements made since the 2015 parliamentary elections, 4 out of 5 have been made over the middle. Those are not insignificant, indifferent agreements. It is the abolition of the PRS tax, it is a new property assessment system, it is the police agreement, it is a safer benefit system, it is the agreement on the secondary schools, to name but a few. And according to the newspaper.dk, one of the trade union media, it is a bottom record; it is a bottom record in block politics. You could also turn it around and say: it is a top record in cooperation. The cooperative line wants the new Triple Government to continue. We would like to extend our hand to a broad collaboration with everyone in this Chamber and continue to present this Parliament with ambitious, durable and well-worked solutions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205215633	There are a number of people who want to ask questions to the Prime Minister. And the first is Mrs Mette Frederiksen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205215640	I would say that it was not Lotte's words about a cooperative popular government and that we must fight together, I think the Prime Minister's reply embedded. Because in its own way it is extraordinary that we have a prime minister in the country who does not represent as much as a third of the votes, but still spends most of his speaking time scolding parties in the Folketing. First it was some So we have not put forward a plan, even though we have put forward a plan that is being scolded and beaten. Could one not ask here at the end of the day for just a little more profit when we know that we have actually just made broad agreements on the PSP and on a new property assessment system. I am well aware that the government will soon need a majority of the parliamentary parties to support a solution around Europol. It is too easy to spend so much of your speaking time scolding and blaming everyone else for then ending with a quote from an excellent young Dane, but without even living up to the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205215801	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205215802	I don't know what it is Mrs. Mette Frederiksen has been hit on. In other words, you can play my speech afterwards, and I went through eight specific points where I think action is needed. So I'm not yelling at you. I find it quite quiet and in full harmony with the truth that it is, what to call it, extraordinary that we have a debate in Denmark about that we have some long-term challenges, and the previous government, in which I was Prime Minister, has put forward a thoroughly worked-out 2025 plan, but we have no answer. After all, I am not reproaching for what I just said, just as I note that, up to the process of financial law negotiations, we have for the first time seen a leading opposition party that has not tabled a financial bill with figures in it. Well, that's not to scold, that's just to say. Then I welcome the agreements that have been made, and I also signed very precisely for the property assessment system, and I also express the wish that we should finish it after Christmas. And then I just have the approach to it that it all gets a little easier if everyone is a little clearer on what the objectives are. It's not like it's scolding.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205215927	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205215928	Couldn't the Prime Minister at least stand by what the Prime Minister is doing and saying? Because that is simply not right. After all, we do not meet a Prime Minister this evening with a surplus looking beyond the Parliamentary Chamber and appealing for continued broad cooperation. Yes, it is said at the end, but the whole basic mood, the whole tone is unfortunately, I would add, an expression of the arrogance that we experience over and over again. It doesn't suit the PM, it doesn't suit the Folketing. We have recently been able to make broad agreements. The Prime Minister has not been in the room, once we have done so we have done it with other ministers but it has been possible. And if this is to be done in the future, and it is to be done, because the Prime Minister does not represent a majority of the seats in the Folketing, then I would urge and urge that we meet each other with the tone that Lotte and others have asked us to have, that is to say, the one that suits a cooperative popular government. So can I just ask here in concrete terms: does the retirement age which the previous government proposed, i.e. that everyone should work for six months longer, continue to apply? Or can Danish employees with the new three-clover government look forward to working even further? The latter can only be answered with a yes or a no.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205220041	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205220042	Yeah, well, I guess there are other Social Democrats who are instructed to ask the same question, and I'll be able to answer it in the course of the debate. I'm absolutely sure of that, but I'll just deal with the first one first. I think that Mrs Mette Frederiksen should take the trouble subsequently to listen through the whole debate, including the way in which Mrs Mette Frederiksen refers to the government base, and perhaps reflect on whether it is really very appropriate to put the word arrogance and something like that on others. We have presented a well-worked government base addressing some of the major challenges of the time, and we want to cooperate with all those who can see the same challenges. I simply note that there is no point in getting mad at the fact that we are up against a Social Democrat who, to date at least, has not given any indication of the level of ambition we have. It's kind of just what I do all the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205220148	Now it is the case that we ordinary members of parliament have very, very great ambitions on behalf of the party leaders and, in particular, the Prime Minister, especially when it comes to trying to distribute their speaking time. I would urge you to make it easy for the Presidents to manage this debate, because there is a great deal of talk from the start. I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) in order to
ParlaMint-DK_20161205220215	Thank you. I would like to sign for the appointment of an elderly minister by the Prime Minister and the government. I think that's good. I think it is a good thing that we have a minister who alone has the task of providing good conditions for our elderly people. It follows from the fact that there is a lot in the government base that it is important for the government that older people do not experience losing dignity in their old age. Elderly people must have an influence on their own lives, which must focus on quality of life and self-determination, etc. etc. It also follows from a political agreement we have made together. This is a very good agreement in the Finance Act for next year, in which we have chosen to say that we must follow up on the dignity billions that have to ensure dignified conditions for the elderly. I assume, as a matter of course, that when you appoint an elderly minister and you put yourself in such terms both in the government base and in a fantastic financial agreement that has been made together, it is because you feel a responsibility to ensure that we live in a country where the elderly have dignified conditions, even at the time of their lives, where they will need care and care and closeness and tenderness.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205220322	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205220324	I can fully confirm that that is the ambition. It is precisely in this light that tomorrow, on the eighth day, the Minister for the Elderly, who has been in office for seven days, has a meeting with the National Association of Municipalities to discuss how we now ensure that what is the ambition here in the Parliament hall is delivered and followed up. For as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl quite rightly says so, together we have raised the framework with first of all a dignity billion, a billion. kr. a year, and recently, a few weeks ago, 2 billion. kr. over 4 years. And that must also be delivered in the municipalities. Exactly for this reason, tomorrow the Minister for the Elderly has a meeting with the National Association of Municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205220418	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205220419	I'm really glad. Then I misunderstood what the Prime Minister said in his introduction when he answered questions during today's debate. The impression was then given that the government and the Minister for the Elderly, etc. It is not a question of taking responsibility for the conditions of the elderly too. It was something about the fact that it is only the municipalities' responsibility. The municipalities have a ton of responsibility in this area. That goes without saying. But when you have an elderly minister, you have such a policy, you have a financial agreement with us that ensures that we have to follow up on this dignity billion, so that the dignity of the individual elderly is actually guaranteed, there is no doubt that it is because in here you are assuming responsibility. And I'm just glad we got it the same way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205220459	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205220501	That's right. That is precisely a co-responsibility. That's the word that's being used. After all, we have a system in Denmark with local government autonomy. There will be municipal elections next year. The local authorities are chosen, and out in the municipalities they have a responsibility to provide services to the individual citizen. We have a responsibility to create the framework for this to happen. Of course, it's about economics. That is why I am pleased that we may be pissed off by Mrs Mette Frederiksen, but it is just a statement ■ in contrast to some years when a reduced service framework was agreed with the municipalities, a framework has now been agreed that will lift the area of the elderly. So that's part of it. The rules are then another part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205220547	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205220548	Thank you. I understand that the Prime Minister would really like to devote much of his speaking time to talking about growth objectives and such things, but I also think there are some people who would like some more concrete answers from the Prime Minister. It can, for example, be done. I should like to make a few comments on the situation in our hospitals, where the so-called productivity requirements mean that you have to run 2%. faster every year, and it hits really, really hard. Personally, I think it is a little sloppy that the Left, in particular, always points out that it can be done a little faster without pointing out how, especially when you keep saying: if we get a little competition into the public sector, things will get better. As if nurses and SOSUs in nursing homes could last, we've heard how productivity requirements hit the feeding grounds. There is a clinic director who has left his job, midwives have been trying to shout for a very, very long time, and when you ask the government parties, there is the answer with figures and statistics, and there is talk of management responsibility. My question is simple: does the Prime Minister not recognise that there are problems in the Danish feeding grounds and that part of the responsibility lies in here?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205220714	Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205220715	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that we have set up health services in a way that operates in five regions, with which we conclude economic agreements every year, and we have done so as far as 2016 and 2017 are concerned. These are, moreover, agreements in which we have, of course, prepared; we have recently drawn up a financial agreement in which we are lifting health care targeted cancer; we have last year that must then be for the current year's budget year; we have also set aside targeted resources in relation to the whole area of maternity leave. I am quite clear that there are places around the country's hospitals, nursing homes, schools and other public institutions where there are challenges, but it is so that it is the regional councils that are responsible for running the health service. That is why I cannot stand up here for any precise standards on maternity leave at the Rigshospitalet, and I cannot. There you have to go to the regional farm in Hillerød. We are trying to give priority to health in a tight financial period. We have done so, and we intend to continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205220830	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205220831	Now I am not aware of the regions that have asked for a productivity requirement of 2%. into that regional agreement, quite the contrary. The Left tends to be determined that the finances are under control and that you do not spend the money until they have been found. It is a little the opposite in the public sector, especially in the health sector. There you make a productivity requirement... you ask, for example... women giving birth to 2%. faster without thinking that in the end there might be a physical chin at the end and then you stand and are a little confused when it hits hard and when it has some consequences. My simple question is: what if we did something about everything that has to do with management, debureaucratisation and all the good things to do, first, and when it was resolved, we could spend the money on tax cuts, party subsidies, or whatever we want with the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205220925	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205220926	Now Mrs Pernille Skipper says that the regions do not want it. I do not know, therefore, that we have made agreements on this, and we have been doing so for a number of years, and this has also been done under the auspices of the Socialist Government. It is a very firm tool in relation to the regions that there is a requirement for efficiency of 2%. This has not changed the fact that, alongside it, we have added more money to the area, just as in the financial agreement we have just concluded, we are creating a cancer plan IV. This isn't about someone having to give birth to 2%. Faster. It is about all systems, including the public sector, constantly having to look at themselves in the cards and look at where things can be done a little more efficiently. And next to that, we have given priority to the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205221013	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205221014	Thank you. There is a 50 per cent target in the government base. renewable energy. And, in the Prime Minister's own words from the start of his speech, you can now say that the air has gone off the balloon if we only reach 50%. in 2030. Because then we should actually be at 60-65 percent. And then, with Erika Voig's words, we have to get the tacks going, even when it comes to the transport sector, for example, which is of course responsible for a great deal of this energy consumption. So can the Prime Minister give some indication of how we are going to deal with this in relation to renewable energy, including in the transport sector, where we have seen a decline in the agreements made on the electric car market?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205221109	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205221110	Thank you. I mean, 50 percent. is a very ambitious target, and it will be a milestone and a celebratory day when Dannebrog can go to the top if we as a country deliver half of the total energy consumption from renewable energy. This is also necessary if we are to achieve the target of 2050 to be independent of fossil fuels. Well, then, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, of course, asserts, and that is probably what lies in the question, that if you are to reach the 100 per cent. in 2050 and it should be a linear development, then it should not be called 50 per cent. in 2030, but perhaps 60%. or something else. But I think it is just necessary to say that we have to have the technology with us. And if you like... I think we have to accept that technology breakthroughs are needed which we in Denmark cannot create alone. We do not have many car factories in Denmark. That is why the government's philosophy is to set an ambitious target, and 50%. is ambitious. We produce 29 per cent. renewable energy today, and reaching 50%. by 2030 is very, very ambitious. Then it is true that up to 2050 we will have to hurry more, but there we will probably also have the help of technology. We're gonna run the cheapest miles at the end, if you can put it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205221230	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205221231	But does this mean that if some of the major car producing countries themselves begin to switch to electric cars, there are several countries where we are talking about phasing out the sale of new fossil cars up to 2025-2030, then that is something we could also move on to, so that we do not allow ourselves to be held back by this objective, which the Prime Minister calls ambitious, by the 50%.? I mean, if we're linear from here now, it's going to be 60-65 percent. But will we be in and running with the others when they're going to overtake us in relation to some of these things?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205221309	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205221310	You can see very precisely in the government base that we set ourselves the target of having at least 50%. VE by 2030, and that is an ambitious goal. I mean, believe me, it's an ambitious target when the set aside is that we have 29 per cent. And we also say that there must be stocktaking along the way, that is to say that it must be evaluated along the way. One of the parameters to be taken into account is, of course, one of the parameters to be taken into account. technological developments. For we have to reach a target by 2050, where we have to be independent of fossil fuels, and that is where we will need, if we are also to be able to afford it, to get some help from technology. Some of this can be developed even at home, but in relation to the transport sector we need a European and global co-play.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205221359	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205221400	Thank you for your answer. In fact, I share the Prime Minister's view that the very day today may seem a bit like a day we've tried before with such a ritual tribal dance. And then I thought that we really do. Well, it is not so long ago that we had an opening debate, and it is strictly at the request of the Prime Minister that we are here again. That is why I do not know whether I think it is arrogance as such, but rather that it may be a great sense of humor that the Prime Minister, after all and after everything we have experienced in this six-month period, still thinks that it is the opposition that appears divided. It has to be said that we would hardly have been here today if it had just been running in oil for the government that was when the opening debate took place a few months ago or how much it is. Therefore, perhaps it was better to concentrate more on the forward-looking, after all. I would just like to say that if what this is all about is creating a basis for investing in the future, then the Prime Minister knows that he can count on us in the Radical Left to be willing to cooperate widely. But what I do not understand is why the approach to it should be massive, long-term savings throughout our education sector. Does the Prime Minister not agree that, for the sake of the future, we need to invest in our education and not reduce it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205221524	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205221525	Well, sir. Morten Østergaard is quite right that if there had not been these tensions on the parliamentary basis of the then government, we would not have been here today. Is that a sign of division? No, it's a sign of collection. I note that, since the first debate, nothing has really happened on the other side, and today we have, what is historic, two proposals for adoption by the opposition. Perhaps you can take that as a prognosis, and if you cannot unite while in opposition, it will not be easier when you get responsibility for trust me. In relation to the question, I would say that we acknowledge that in the whole of education, which has been a priority area for many years and where there has been a great boost, we are now laying down, it can be said, the development pressure on that sector also that a re-prioritisation contribution has to be provided. But that does not mean that we cannot give priority to it. And that is among other things. the reason why the Left Government, and it has been reiterated in the government programme here, has an ambition to provide a billion-dollar pool of powers • a billion-dollar pool of competences.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205221642	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205221642-2	Otherwise, if there is a link between the economic policy of the former Left Government and that of the new VLAK government, then the net bottom line is simply that you do not want to invest more in education by 2020 than you do today. Because overall, you're reducing. But this leads to the issue of primary school, which the Prime Minister struck down on, and I would just like to ask: is it not true that this is a pool where the deeply motivated teachers in these 100 exposed schools, where they are working and dragging, know well, as the Prime Minister said, that it requires educational differentiation and methods that work, but that they can only get a share in the Prime Minister's new pool once they have documented that the results have arrived?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205221726	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205221727	Now it's not the PM's new pool. In other words, it is a pool which must be set off in this House according to the rules of funding, and we must return to the technical form. I am fully aware that it is difficult to do something for some funds you do not yet have. This is also why a parallel has been drawn to what we did back at the beginning of the 00s, when we decommissioned waiting lists. It's an additional activity pool. At that time, there were the same objections about how to act if the money is not there, and it was technically resolved by providing the resources a conto so that you got the money you needed to move. And as you were able to prove that you had moved, it exceeded the money from being a conto-amount to being money down the municipality's box. It's basically just technique.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205221820	Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205221821	I think the Prime Minister is continuing his Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. On the one hand, the Prime Minister would like to extend his hand to a broad cooperation such as Dr. Jekyll, and on the other hand, at the same time, in his concluding remarks, the Prime Minister succeeds in striking everyone over his hand, pushing them away and forgetting a little that his government is sitting with a minority. Hyde and maybe the late hour of the day that comes up. I do not think it suits a government which so much needs to seek its majority in the Folketing. But then to my question. I hear at the end of the Prime Minister's speech that he actually recognises the challenges that we face in the area of the elderly and, in fact, also in the delivery channels around the world. That's a good thing. That is why I am looking at the Prime Minister's own 2025 plan, although it has been scrapped and a new government basis has been created. However, the 2025 plan envisages an increase in the public sector of 0.5%. What has happened that means that the Prime Minister now believes that the public sector only needs an increase of 0.3 per cent and that problems in the area of the elderly and food can then be solved?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205221943	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205221944	After all, a new government has been formed in which the party to which I belong forms one of three parties which has found a new common starting point. It is also based on a very strong recognition that this government is also a minority government, albeit larger. That's what's happened. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that what is very clearly stated in the government base here is that in its economic policy the government operates with what is referred to as a basic real increase in public consumption of 3 per cent. That is, so to speak, what has been added to a start, as a basis. And then it is very clear that, in this way, the government has an ambition, when making reform adjustments, to be able to exchange tax money, which is currently going to transfers, for consumption. For this whole debate on 3 per thousand and 6 per thousand, and I do not know how many promos, this is a rather crooked debate, because what is crucial is whether we have control of total public expenditure. And there the government has the ambition that we should have that, and their share of society's cake should fall, but we also have an ambition that the part of public spending spent on what is called public spending, that is to say hospitals, research, education, should be allowed to grow.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205222105	Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205222106	Although the Prime Minister has made a little bit of fun about how quickly the SF has read the government base, I had actually understood that premise, but the point is still that something has happened, from the Left thought that it should be at least 0.5%. to in growth and that there is now 0.3. Then I can see that you can make savings on SU and savings on cash aid and all sorts of other things that the government is now saying it is willing to do in order then to convert it perhaps to the elderly or something else, but it is still gone on the basis of 0.3 per cent. The demographic challenge really requires it to rise by 0.6%. Who, then, do we have to save? What are the areas that should not have a proper public service?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205222152	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205222153	I just appeal to us to look at what is important. We have an ambition that public expenditure will fill a relatively smaller part of the economy, because this is a prerequisite for reducing the structural tax burden, and we want that. Then we have put a direction into this government base, which means that if you do it purposefully and intelligently, you can really invest more in the public sector as well. One example is that when we were able to downgrade the number of refugees to Denmark from 25,000 to 10,000 at the latest, we saved a billion dollars, some of which then went to spend more money on development aid in the world, but where part of them was also real money, we could instead invest in the area of the elderly. So we are, in fact, warm supporters of changing public money from one thing to something we like better.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205222247	Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205222248	Thank you very much for your comments, and I would also like to thank you for an outstretched hand. In any case, we hope that it will remain in force. In relation to what the Prime Minister mentions, about an area of justice which must correspond to a modern society and be worthy of a modern society, the Prime Minister talks about Denmark. However, I very much hope that what is stated in the government base will also apply to Greenland, because that is where it is proposed that it should be the same standard. Today we have the Council of Greenland's Legal Affairs, which must constantly look at how we can further develop Greenland's legal area. And if you look at some of the positives, crime has fallen. We see that there are fewer in the institutions and we also see that there are fewer cases being dealt with in the courts, among others. Because of this bunch of battles that we were given funds for a few years back here in the Danish Parliament. In relation to the pile that is lying there right now, it acts among other things. On the subject of compensation for victims by the national judge, and on the other hand there is a strong need to professionalise. How does the government view lifting justice in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205222411	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205222412	I would like to make a commitment to be in close and constructive dialogue on that challenge. This was also the position we had a short time ago in which this area was handled by the then Minister of Justice, Søren Pind, and I feel quite confident that the country's new Minister of Justice would also like to raise this matter and enter into dialogue with Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen on those issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205222443	Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205222444	Thank you very much. After all, it is also a resource issue, so it is something that there must be dialogue on afterwards. The government's support party, the Danish People's Party, has been out saying that because of this constitutional work that is going on in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, they don't think that you should look at the 32 areas Denmark is carrying out on behalf of Greenland and help to raise those areas. I think it might be interesting to hear whether this is also an attitude shared by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205222516	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205222517	I mean, my position is that, and the government's position is that we are part of a kingdom community. We intend to do so a great deal, and in this way we want to maintain and develop and modernise it. And that is also the answer to the question. This means that we must work together in the areas in which it is appropriate to cooperate. And we must do so until some have reached a completely different conclusion as to what future relationship we should have. But, of course, I also have an expectation that the work that you have, and that applies both in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, is a piece of constitutional work that respects the constitution and the kingdom community, as long as the two countries, Greenland and the Faroe Islands, have not self-contained.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205222603	Thank you. Then it's mr. Tórbjørn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205222607	In contrast to a few statements to the contrary, I would like to commend the Prime Minister for his deep respect for the rule of the people and for democracy. I believe that, with his remarks, he showed that he believes that the Assembly Hall is the democratic melting pot in which everyone who has been delegated by the people has the freedom to say what he thinks. And I'm very happy to hear that. Otherwise, since he has tried to google himself to where the loose cannon in the Faroe Islands has come from, I would say that it is true that I was born the same year as Klaksvíkstrigen, when Klaksvík was fighting against the Danish state power in 1955. But then I was not present because I was born in the hospital in Ærøskøbing and lived in Marstal and was baptized in Marstal Church.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205222710	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205222712	Well, I guess I guess it's the way it's described here. I'm not going to challenge that. I was just looking for where the oxygenated blood came from, and then I thought it could come from. It was an interesting dispute, because it was actually a Danish doctor, who the authorities wanted to replace with a Faroese doctor, and the city otherwise rebelled. It is an unnoticed part of our history and the closest that we have been in civil war in recent times. I am glad that the relationship we have today is much more peaceful, even though blood is rolling hot in the veins. And I hope and wish to express the pious wish that it remains so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205222800	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205222802	Then I come to the question that I had. In other words, it has been the case, at least since fisheries became the main industry in the Faroe Islands, that we have had very good trade relations with Great Britain for 100 years or more. And it has actually been decreasing since Britain became part of the EU or first the EEC and then the EC and then the EU. I would just like to ask the Prime Minister because it is mentioned positively in the agreement and in what was said on Friday I think that one would enter into a dialogue on the situation after Brexit: have discussions been held with the Faroese Home Rule Government on this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205222849	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205222850	Thank you. It is the case that, the day after the vote in Britain, we set up an inter-ministerial task force anchored in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to uncover Danish interests both offensive and defensive in relation to Brexit. And in the government base, we have emphasised that our entire approach to the negotiations that are now to be held in the European Union about a Great Britain wishing to leave the European Union must be the defence of Danish interests. And that is also true in a broader perspective, which is about the Kingdom community. I do not have the specific status of how far this task force work is, but I can assure Mr. Tórbjørn Jacobsen in that it is certainly our intention to be in dialogue also with the Faroe Islands and Greenland about what Greenlandic and Faroese position is in relation to the complicated negotiating game that is now coming in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205222944	Sir. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205222948	The Prime Minister, although he has only been in charge of the new government for a week, already seems rather tired, and so many Danes are. They have been on the labour market for many years, and they are looking forward to retiring and enjoying their retirement, which is why it was also interesting that the Prime Minister did not want to answer Mrs Mette Frederiksen's question earlier in the debate and it was quite simple. Because it is clear from the government's basis that there is a desire to increase the retirement age. When the Prime Minister was in charge of another government, it would be done by 1⁄2 years, which is why my question to the Prime Minister is this evening: will the Prime Minister promise that the new government will not present a proposal raising the retirement age by more than 1⁄2 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205223044	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205223045	Thank you. It was not because I did not want to answer it, but it was because time did not allow it, and then it was in blind confidence that the question would be repeated, and so was it. The government will present a concrete proposal when we come into the new year, and that is what I can tell you about this matter at the moment. It is true that the position of the Left Government has been described. Now there is a new government, a new government that allows itself to use the time over Christmas and the New Year to think through its adjusted proposals, and that comes. And that means that I cannot guarantee that it will be more or less. I can guarantee you there's gonna be a play.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205223132	Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205223134	That is a really exciting response from the Prime Minister of the country to the many, many people who sit out there and are planning when they can retire. Two months ago, the Prime Minister's message to them was that we should just add 1⁄2 years, so even if people had planned it all, there were some top tax reliefs that had to be paid, and therefore we had to work 1⁄2 years longer. But I have to understand the Prime Minister this evening that the Prime Minister in no way excludes that it could be more than 1⁄2 years, which means that there is now maximum uncertainty among the many people who had expected to retire and who, at worst, thought that it could be 1⁄2 years. And now it can be much more.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205223226	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205223227	May I not arrest what is being said over and over again and which remains wrong, no matter how many times it is said, that there are no top tax reliefs to be paid by the pension. That is simply not right, and it will no longer be right to be repeated. That is not true if you look at the proposal put forward by the former Left Government, nor will it be true if you look at the proposal that comes from the new government. But now I repeat myself: it is quite right, as was said, that the Left Government had a proposal to increase the retirement age by six months beyond what had been agreed. The new government also has a plan to make a proposal, and that proposal comes in the new year.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205223312	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205223315	Thank you. My joy was great when the new government appointed a new minister for the elderly, for the elderly is indeed an area that needs a focus. And my joy was also great when I heard the Prime Minister's statement, which said that care for the elderly should be characterised by good experiences, and it is also true that today it is a task that lies with the municipalities. But it happens that municipal autonomy is failing. What, then, is the government's answer, that is, when municipal autonomy fails, and when relatives have to watch their parents walk around in wet diapers or lie and insane in a bed? What will the government do when municipal autonomy is failing our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205223407	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205223408	Yes, then we will hold municipal autonomy responsible for that failure. And that's exactly why, tomorrow, after having been in this function for only one week, the Minister for the Elderly has a meeting with the National Association of Municipalities. After all, it is the municipalities that are ultimately responsible for running the municipal nursing homes. It is our responsibility to create the framework for economic, organisational and so on. What we need to discuss with the municipalities is what does not work when you see some of the examples you see, and fortunately you also see a lot of good examples. And what initiatives, if any, must be taken legislatively or otherwise to ensure that the bad examples disappear and that the good examples blossom instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205223503	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205223505	It is quite true that it is the responsibility of the municipalities, but despite large investments from within, in other words better frameworks, we see that some municipalities are still failing their responsibilities. We have therefore tried to help them, but still some fail. Is it the view of the government, when taking out the scales, that the weight of municipal autonomy outweighs the dignity of older people? Is that really the lot that's the heaviest?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205223541	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205223543	Now I am wondering a little what is the operational offer following that question, if it is the case that the municipalities should not be responsible, i.e. whether we should run the nursing homes under state auspices or we should close the municipality or what we really should do. We must keep the municipalities under their responsibilities. We must make sure that we work with the municipalities to remove the barriers that are • or we could also say the bad excuses that are • that we are not doing the job well enough. That's one of them. Therefore, we have already said that we are bringing in a public sector modernisation programme and that we are setting up a management commission, and that is why the Minister for the Elderly has a meeting with KL. Next to that, we want to free the individual elderly, because it's also part of this. The individual elderly must have some choice and an opportunity, as it were, to turn their backs on poor municipal solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205223633	Then it's mr. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205223636	Thank you for that, President. The longer we get into the evening, the greater the uncertainty about the government's economic policy, not least for the many families who are planning their retirement age. After all, the Prime Minister himself has just said that the previous government, which he was in charge of, was planning to increase retirement age by 1⁄2 years, he had a target for the supply of work in his economic plan. I have to understand now that this objective has been increased in the current government plan, and then the natural question is, when one can write quite precisely how one intends to increase the supply of work in the current plan, it is therefore a job supply that is higher than in the previous plan, why can the Danes who plan their retirement age not be told whether the government intends to change what was thought earlier, that is to say, to increase the retirement age by 1⁄2 years? Should it be raised now when the supply of labour is also to be increased?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205223738	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205223740	I think it was a bit of a tale when Mr. Morten Bødskov said for the sake of the many politicians who had planned their pension. It was probably the citizens in general, but fair enough. You can ask again, and the answer is the same. A new government has been formed, it has been formed a week ago, and it is true that an element of that government is my own party, the Left, which when we were in government alone put forward very precise proposals, and now it is not to get anyone upset, but it was also proposals that were left unanswered, which did not come from so many other places. Now a new government has been formed that admits itself to making concrete proposals in 2017, and that is how it will be, and there will be concrete proposals unfolding. I can't anticipate that tonight.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205223833	Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205223835	Thank you for that, President. I was talking about families, but fair enough, that's the way it is sometimes. I think it should be quite simple for the Prime Minister to answer, because the reality is that the Prime Minister knows very well. The Prime Minister just won't tell me. He hides from the Danish families how the future retirement age should be organized. The numbers are in the plan. When one could say in the plan one had before that one would raise the retirement age by 1⁄2 years and overall increase the work supply by 40,000, and now has a plan where one would increase the work supply by between 55,000 and 60,000, but does not want to tell the Danes what the retirement age is, it is only because one does not want to tell it, but one knows it well. Then we can't know what the plan is when it comes to retirement. Should the retirement age be increased from the six months in which the Danes have been pushed down in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205223923	Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205223924	After all, no government proposal has yet been made, and that is why I cannot present any government proposal. I mean, that's one way of doing that. Mr President, I should like to make a few comments on this subject. Morten Bødskov says so himself, is indicated a room, an ambition level. If it was the case that we knew exactly and had agreed in detail what we were doing, then there was no reason to write 55,000-60,000. Then it could be said that we want to extend the work offer by 56,926 or something. It is the case that a new government has been formed a week ago, which agrees on a very ambitious government basis with very clear targets, and you can see all the way through what is, as it were, set aside for the further progress, but the concrete approach will then come in 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205224010	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205224011	Thank you. One of the things that I think really permeates the government base is this desire for private companies and corporations to enter and make money from our community; these are supply companies and privatisations. This also means that in future the municipalities and perhaps even the regions will be forced to outsource, in other words to let private groups come in and stick their trunks into the common fund and make money to operate, for example. kindergartens and nursing homes, and perhaps it is also in the health sector. After all, there are some terrible bad experiences with it from other countries, not least from Sweden, where we have seen some huge scandals: on the one hand, millions of dollars disappeared in tax havens, on the other hand, there were simply so bad conditions that the new Swedish Government has slowed down and stopped it. We also have some experience in Denmark. The Prime Minister probably remembers the case of overpayment of the private hospitals under the bourgeois government, where more ministers ended up getting a nose. Some people said it was 900 million. kr. that went out of the treasury. I think the Prime Minister himself believes that it is maximum. was 100 million. kr., but after all it's money too. So the question is, is that the plan? Have you learned from the experiences that have been done at home and elsewhere, or do you just want to drive on?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205224134	Then the question is over, and then the Prime Minister answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205224134-2	One must always learn from one's experience, and the experience from the hospital area up through the 00s is that what really moved and made sure that we had combated waiting lists, and that we regained confidence in the Danish hospital system, which was in ruins in 2001, when the VK government joined, was the combination of many initiatives, including the release of patients and the unique patient rights which were not granted to them and which people chose to abolish, but which were still there when a social democratic government came. It stated that private treatment could be chosen if the public authorities were unable to deliver on time. It's an amazing experience that needs to be built on. And that is what we intend to do. When Mr. Pelle Dragsted says that we have some plans for something to be outsourced, I have to say: No, we have some thoughts about asking about the price and offering our tasks. Whether this leads to the tasks ending in private or continuing to be solved in the public sector depends on who gives the best price, who together meets in with the best bid to get the job done. It is not an ideology that it should end up in private. I understand that for mr. Pelle Dragsted is an ideology that it should end up in public. It is also in a situation where today we have talked about all these public nursing homes, where some of them have at least some quality challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205224250	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205224251	After all, they are due to the tight reins in which the municipalities have been kept financially. But it is very funny that this is not an ideology when you want to have private people who are going to have their snag in the common fund in this way, being said many times, because it does not really matter whether it is private or public, because it is the price and quality it depends on. But can I not get the Prime Minister to point to an area in which public opinion should move forward at the expense of the private sector, so point to an area which the government is planning to indicate, or an area in which it is actually believed that the public sector could come in and do better than the private sector is doing today? Because if there is really no ideology, it must be an easy matter for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205224327	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205224328	Well, I can give you an example. There are, for example: the large external deliveries we get from the DA. It's just to give you an example. In this respect, I think it would be useful to discuss whether our own ministries, our own central government, could not be brought to a qualitative level so that part of the tasks outsourced there will be solved in the ministries. This is just to give a concrete example, given that specific examples are being sought after.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205224353	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205224353-2	Thank you. Now I've just been sitting here doing some calculations about this with the increased supply of work that you're adding up to. In other words, if you look at the previous government's own figures, if you increase the retirement age by 1⁄2 years, it was about 12 000 in increased labour supply. Then it will be the case that a relatively simple projection means that what lies in the new government's plans is that you have to increase the retirement age by a place between 1 and 11⁄2 years, i.e. not 1⁄2 years, but 1⁄2 years. However, it is relatively violent unless, of course, the government is suggesting that an increase in labour supply should come from elsewhere. But somewhere it is probably a relatively great insecurity to leave the Danes in. So if the Prime Minister cannot answer what exactly the number of years is, there might be some indication of whether you are going to find a job elsewhere. Because I think it is quite violent if we are talking about between one and a half years on top of the retirement age compared to the original proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205224458	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205224459	Well, that is also something Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil does. I'm not talking about it. I am talking about nothing more than that the government, in a situation where life expectancy is increasing at a rate that goes beyond what was behind it, when we agreed back in 2006 and later in 2010, to adjust the retirement age, then intends to propose it, and the precise way to do it will come in 2017. After all, it is a challenge that any responsible government has to take seriously. In other words, alongside public finances, we can only point to the debate that is going on on about the private economy of future pensioners, that is, the fact that the pension savings they make and the way in which occupational pensions are built are based on an expectation of how many years you have when you retire. Those prerequisites are moving so much in these years that there are some challenges, and we need to take them seriously. The government does, and the government is making a move.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205224605	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205224606	Now I am a member of the 3F trade union, and I should like to say that when you come from there, it seems absolutely absurd. The fact that you start at least 1⁄2 years seems completely absurd. Well, we have to agree that when we made agreements with each other about the pension, it was at a time when there was an early retirement. It's not like that anymore. That is to say, with the way you adjust things up, it hits a whole other way. To this point, with some proposal coming in 2017, I would say that the Prime Minister must be able to give an answer when there are figures for an increase in labour supply. We want an increase in the supply of work of 15.00-2000, compared to what the government that sat a week ago wanted, and that means that if you convert it to retirement years, all Danes, including worn-out 3Fs, will have to work one-and-a-half years extra. First Vice-President Thank you. Then it's the Prime Minister who's answering!). The Prime Minister must be able to cover that up.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205224653	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205224655	Well, it's Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil who's counting on the numbers like that. Well, I didn't do it. I have said very precisely that in 2017 the government will come up with a concrete proposal. I am then listening to what is being said in the meantime, so if Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil or others will give some indication that the forecast for making agreements is better if something is proposed rather than something else, then we will take it with us. But otherwise we reserve the right to make that move. It can't be any different. A new government was formed one week ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205224731	Then it's mr. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205224733	Like the PM, I'm a dog owner. And one of my dogs is very fond of his ball. But unlike other dogs, it doesn't really come back with that ball. It would very much like to keep it on its own and, by the way, decide it always. I've found out that if you give it a treat, it lets go of the ball, and then you can like play on. Now I will try the same method on the Prime Minister, who very much does not want to let go of the ball as being the one who is in charge of the negotiations. I can understand that. To Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr the Prime Minister replied earlier that they 0.3 per cent. in growth like was a starting point. In addition, reforms would have to be made so that further growth could be achieved in the public sector, as I understand it. Can we try to get an indication from the Prime Minister of what growth one imagines? Is it, for example, that you have to be able to live up to the demographic move of 0.6%?? In other words, we must go in and make unpleasant reforms in order to achieve a further 0.3% growth.?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205224849	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205224850	That's the answer, sir. Benny Engelbrecht himself is helping to develop. That depends, among other things. What is the climate here in the Parliamentary Chamber and what agreements can be made? If we take the SU as an example, we have a grant level at SU that outmatches what we spend on research. There's a thought for the government. We come up with a concrete proposal in the new year to adjust the S.U. and commit ourselves to putting the direct gains of the government base in what is called public spending, namely a pool of competences. So if the level of ambition is great and the courage is great, it can be a greater amount, but if the courage is a little less, it will be a smaller amount. So we can work together on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205224943	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205224945	I assume that the Prime Minister recognises that if you are just going to be able to deliver the same welfare in 2025 as today, you have to count on an average growth of 0.6%. I can see that the Prime Minister does not seem to disagree with me at first sight. So far, so good. That is why the question is quite relevant. What kind of a catalogue of unpleasant things lies in the former Finance Minister, who has been taken over by the current Finance Minister, and who is going to be used there? Is it also transfer income and other benefits, or is it only the pension part, the later withdrawal, that is at stake?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205225027	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205225030	Now I gave an example with SU. Another example that could be given is our policy on foreigners. We've tightened up and got things under control, and that enabled us to downgrade an expectation from 25,000 to 10,000 a year in our own calculations. It has freed money that is now put into real welfare. When we have been able to afford to make an agreement with the Danish People's Party and the three parties that are now part of the government to allocate additional resources to the elderly area this year, it is because we managed immigration and could exchange some money that was public spending into something that makes more sense. This is an ambition that we have also set forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205225111	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205225114	Thank you. The Prime Minister continues to say that Denmark faces some fundamental challenges, and I agree with that, but I do not agree with the solutions put forward by the Prime Minister and the new Triple Government. After all, the answers have been to make a billion savings on education and then to propose an SU-billion-dollar saving, and then to propose a ceiling on education. What we can see in the future is that we will need more people who are more educated and that we will need to raise some of the people who do not have education today and ensure that they do so in the future. Some of those who do not get an education today are, after all, the so-called remnant group, a group of young people that we do not get the promise. There we have traditionally had these very strong production schools, which have helped to lift some of these young people, including some of them, which I know the Prime Minister has fought for. The production schools are being cut off quite sharply now, and the production schools themselves say that cutting school benefits will mean that some of the young people who have previously been raised and guaranteed youth education will not do so anyway. Is that ambitious?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205225220	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205225222	I think it is very sensible to harmonise the levels of benefits, including the production schools. When Mr. Jacob Mark says that we disagree on the solutions, yet I think I am listening to the fact that then we are no more disagreeable than that, because the part that is about giving people an education boost, I am in fact very much in agreement with it. Where it may divide is that I have to have something to do with it. It takes real money. I do not imagine anything else when we start the third stage of the trialogue negotiations in the spring, and then it may be that Mrs Mette Frederiksen will be upset again, but that is to say they did not happen under the previous government, and now we have made two more than if we come in with empty pockets, if we come in with completely empty pockets in relation to a discussion with the social partners about lifting the field of continuing training, then it is not certain that we will reach the goal. Therefore, I just take responsibility for saying that then we would like to reduce on the world's most lucrative SU and pull out some resources that could then be spent on the training task. It's called priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205225332	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205225334	Thank you. I'm gonna hold on to the production school thing. This concerns me a little, because, as I said, it is very vulnerable young people who go to these production schools and who are now in danger of falling away, some of whom I do not think they will otherwise be promised. With this new service, with this harmonisation that the Prime Minister is talking about, it is actually better for these production school students to stay at home on the couch and take the training aid on the cash aid, because that benefit is higher than going to the production school and learning to do a real job and then later get into life and train themselves. I have heard all my youth life that it must pay to work and that it should pay to study. How is this linked to the fact that exactly the opposite is now being done for the production school pupils?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205225414	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205225415	Training must pay off, and the best way to pay off is to ensure that the training is the way to get a better life now, to put it briefly, than to get a better life without training. It's like what's at stake. It is not a question of whether there is a Coke or a pack of cigarettes or what it could be right now and here. In other words, what is the perspective and the perspective that we need to set up for young people is that education is the way to seize the opportunities of the future. That is why it is not just about the harmonisation of services. After all, it is also a question of the new government taking over a piece of committee work, which is in progress, which will take the lead in spring, and which will give some suggestions on how to create better educational choices on top of the primary school in relation to the whole youth education system, avoiding many wasted resources that we are wasting in the system today, because young people are being placed in the wrong place for a start. In fact, I hope we have a common agenda there too.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205225512	No one has asked for another round of rapporteurs, which means that the last brief remark in this debate is from Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205225519	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister for the comments now from the platform. I would really like to change the subject a little and say that some of what I really like in the government base, what our rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, also mentioned, is the setting-up of a management commission and the appointment of an innovation minister. As I understand the work of the Management Commission, we want to include, among other things: the social partners. What I would like to ask here is the whole area of innovation, debureaucratisation and trust in the public services so that they can do their job. Do we also have thoughts about involving the social partners, employee groups and employers, etc., in terms of getting to the bottom of how we really get rid of bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20161205225609	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205225609-2	First of all, I would like to thank you for the warm words of praise you have spoken in this evening's heated debate. Yeah, I expect a lot from that management commission. We have done far too much process management, and there are probably many who are responsible. Many people have talked about it, and yet have put up with welfare rights... exactly 23 of the kind... that explains the detail of how the municipalities are to solve their tasks. We took the lead when we made the quality reform, where our idea historically was to say that if we control more on the targets, we can let go of the processes. We've never really succeeded in that. Now we are trying two things: on the one hand, a management commission and, on the other hand, it is not yet composed where our idea is to draw sharp brains into helping to give some proposals for management principles in the public sector, on the other hand, by putting two ministers into the Ministry of Finance so that we can free the political force that has been lacking. This is an idea I have had for many years, and I think that if you ask the former Finance Minister and the former Finance Minister before him, that is also in the former Socialist Government, you will get the answer that there has been a lack of political attention to the whole question of developing the public sector right down in the engine room. Of course, to answer the question, one can only make sense if one draws in experience.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205225730	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205225731	Thank you. I fully agree with that and look forward to it. Then I would hope that the Prime Minister will also include the parties of the Folketing in the whole dialogue on debureaucratisation, because I also believe that the entire Parliament has a great responsibility in terms of reporting rules and laws, the second we see mistakes being made around the public system. So I think, as Parliament, we have a very, very large share of responsibility. I hope that the Minister will also work broadly, and that is where I really think broadly, in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205225804	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205225805	I fully agree that we all have a very great responsibility here. And it leads too far in 30 seconds to go into it. But we're all a little challenged by • if I may put it seriously at the end of the day that in modern politics you have to act all the time. And it is very rare for a minister to be praised for saying: I am not going to do anything about this problem, because I think that the responsibility lies in that nursing home. If we are to solve the specific problem generically by creating new rules, we are really going to create more bureaucracy. It is rare to be praised for it, and I have been able to see the tendency that this is where we have to give rules about everything, too, has poped up a bit at the edge of the debate here today. So we all have a responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205225855	Thank you, Prime Minister. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205225903	There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 19 by Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Jakob Ellemann-Jensen (V), Christina Egelund (LA) and Mette Abildgaard (KF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. in favour of 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. V 19 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption no. V 18 by Mette Frederiksen (S), Morten Østergaard (RV) and Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF) and proposals for adoption no. V 20 of Pernille Skipper (EL) and Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) lapsed. That concludes the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161205225953	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Tuesday 6 December 2016, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
