ParlaMint-DK_20161026130201	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Business and Growth (Troel Lund Poulsen): Bill no. L 42 (Proposal for a Law on the Board of Appeal). Minister of Justice (Søren Pind): Bill No. L 43 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on smoke-free environments and the Law on the Enforcement of Punishment, etc.) Minister for the Environment and Food (Esben Lunde Larsen): Bill no. L 44 (Proposal for a Law on the Environment and Food Complaints Board). Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 20 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the government's announcement to the EU that negotiations on Turkey's accession to the European Union should be stopped). Jens Joel (S), Mikkel Dencker (DF), Thomas Danielsen (V), Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL), Carsten Bach (LA), Christian Poll (ALT), Andreas Steenberg (RV), Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF) and Mette Abildgaard (KF): Request no. F 7 (What can the Minister say about the government's future climate policy initiatives in the light of the climate policy statement?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate (Lars Christian Lilleholt) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Danish Parliament a written Climate Policy statement 2016. R 4). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Thursday, 10 November 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026130338	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 27 October 2016. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questions put to the Commission by the honourable Member. Nase Khader for a reason. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026130408	We Conservatives have wanted this urgent request for the bloodbath in Aleppo, Syria, to be negotiated today. We are very pleased that this has been possible. We believe it is important for Denmark to condemn with a loud voice the war crimes in Aleppo and Syria, but also subsequently act on this condemnation. Not far from here, 4-5 hours of flight from here, we witness a bloodbath of historical dimensions. It takes place primarily in Syria's largest city, Aleppo, which bleeds. Syria is bleeding, its citizens are dying, and hundreds of thousands of children are suffering from this conflict. We all hear their cry for help, but we do nothing. I am not so naive to think that a strong condemnation will save human life, but it is certainly an important first step in stopping madness in Syria. So today I hope for broad support for a loud outcry, which can also be heard in Syria, that we also intend to help stop this madness. I hope for a good and constructive debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026130526	Thank you. Then it is the Foreign Minister for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026130534	Thank you, and thank you to the authors of the question. I think it is important to stress that, although words cannot stop bombs in themselves, words are important, both in terms of a clear condemnation of those responsible for the atrocities in Syria, but also in terms of expressing their support and support for those who, to this day, continue to fight for a free and peaceful Syria. I believe that we can all agree in this Chamber that the situation in Syria, and especially in Aleppo, is absolutely terrible. In September we saw how, unfortunately, an attempt to stop the fighting quickly fell apart, and subsequently we have seen how the Syrian regime and Russia, regardless of civilians, have escalated the conflict with massive and persistent bombings. The situation in Aleppo is extremely appalling. The eastern part of the city, controlled by the rebels, has been besieged. These are 275 000 people cut off from the outside world. Tens of thousands are without access to clean drinking water after a water plant has been bombed. We have seen the use of cluster bombs and so-called bunker buster bombs to destroy underground installations. This also applies to cellars where civilians seek refuge. We have also witnessed an attack on a UN emergency convoy on 19 September southwest of Aleppo. This is a new low point in the conflict. It is deeply outrageous and contrary to quite basic humanity that the regime's air strikes destroy the hospitals of the district. It is also virtually impossible to get emergency aid into Aleppo, as the regime cynically prevents relief convoys from entering the area. The UN Special Envoy for Syria, Staffan de Staffan, has said that if the bombing continues, we can expect to see the entire eastern part of Aleppo destroyed. That is why the government is also looking at the situation in Aleppo with great seriousness and concern, but we must also be honest and note that there are no easy solutions when it comes to Syria, not even in Aleppo, especially when a permanent member of the UN Security Council is watching over the Assad regime. Since the outbreak of the conflict in 2011, several attempts have been made to adopt resolutions designed to protect civilians, improve humanitarian access and provide a framework for resolving the conflict. In many cases, Russia has resisted and ultimately blocked these efforts. At the beginning of October, France and Spain tried to adopt a UN Security Council resolution aimed at halting the bombings in Aleppo and improving humanitarian access. Denmark was a co-sponsor, precisely because it is a priority for us to support the actions that actually make a difference and can improve the situation in Syria. Unfortunately, Russia again chose to veto and therefore again blocked measures that could have saved human life. Furthermore, it could have created a foundation for making progress in the political track. It is clear that the critical situation in Syria and Aleppo is desperate. I also know that there are some people here today who would like to see Denmark also considering what military measures could be taken to stop the conflict. As part of the international coalition against ISIL, Denmark participates in military operations in Syria, but only to combat ISIL. The government does not see Denmark launching a military campaign against the Syrian regime. This is, first and foremost, something we cannot and must not do alone, nor do we see any international effort in this direction. Whatever the case, it can at best complicate a conflict that has already involved many regional players and, at worst, it can lead to a direct military confrontation with Russia • something that no one wants. That is why I am convinced that we must keep the focus on what can be done in the United Nations and in the European Union and how we can continue to put pressure on the regime and put pressure on Russia. At the last Foreign Minister meeting in October, we decided to work to further tighten sanctions against people in the Syrian regime. Several of our close partners in the European Union have also begun to look at the possibilities of sanctioning Russian people in the context of the conflict in Syria. This is something that we are open to from Denmark as long as EU unity can be created on the issue. In addition, the government will continue to keep a watchful and critical eye on violations of international humanitarian law and human rights in Syria. I condemn the Syrian regime and its allies and the gross violations of international humanitarian law and the systematic and gross violations and violations of human rights. The deliberate and arbitrary attacks on, among others: civilians bear disturbing characteristics of war crimes or crimes against humanity. Those who commit these atrocities should be held accountable. We will therefore also support Danish support for new international initiatives which will help clarify whether war crimes or crimes against humanity have been committed. As long as the conflict continues, we will also do what we can to help the distressed Syrian population. The government's new 3-year Syria and Iraq stabilisation programme of 332.5 million. kr. calls for particular attention to be paid to supporting moderate actors in opposition-controlled areas. The White Helmets, who are working to protect civilians from the terrible bombings of the regime and Russia, will continue to receive support from Denmark. These volunteers are making extraordinary efforts to help their fellow citizens in need and have suffered more losses as a result of the recent escalation. In addition, Denmark will also continue to make significant humanitarian efforts to benefit the Syrian population in Syria and its neighbouring countries. We have seen together since the beginning of the conflict in Syria over five years ago contributed almost 1.7 billion. kr. in humanitarian aid. This year Denmark has for the time being paid 275.5 million. kr. to interventions in relation to the Syrian conflict. Most recently, the government has announced a distribution of a pool of 90 million. kr. to Danish NGOs and their local partners to continue ongoing activities or completely new projects in Syria or neighbouring countries. In addition, the government is working to allocate a further 525 million. kr. to a renewed strengthening of efforts in the neighbourhood. If the proposal is accepted, I expect a further at least 435 million. kr. will be used for crisis and neighbourhood efforts in the Middle East and North Africa, which will not least mean in Syria's vicinity. No one should be in any doubt that we in the government will do what we can to help to put an end to the conflict in Syria and to promote a solution for creating a lasting peace in that country. We will also continue to press for emergency aid to enter Aleppo and to press for the regime to fulfil its obligations and ensure access to all other areas of Syria. It is important for me to stress that, although today's question debate is about the issue of Aleppo, there are a large number of other conflict zones in Syria where citizens are also subjected to attacks, where areas are cut off from humanitarian aid and where there are similar humanitarian disasters, but not on the same scale as the one we see in Aleppo. I would like to emphasise that the only way to put an end to violence in Aleppo is to create the necessary support for an overall political solution. The framework for it has already been set out, namely in UN Security Council Resolution No. 2254. It was adopted, also with Russia's support, in December last year. The government will therefore continue to insist that in the need for a political solution there is no future for Assad. The government insists that Assad's barbarity and contempt for his own people means that he cannot be part of a lasting and long-term solution to the conflict. Meanwhile, within the United Nations and within the European Union and within other relevant fora where Denmark is involved, we will do what we can to reduce violence and provide the help we can to the Syrian population. And we continue to maintain political pressure on Assad, on his regime and on those countries that actively support his brutal and ruthless attacks on the Syrian population.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026131431	Thank you, Minister. Sir. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026131449	We've waited too long, too long, and history will judge us hard. The Syrian civilian population is suffering, but we have given Iran, Russia, Hezbollah and the dictator Assad carte blanche in Syria for far too long. Meanwhile, in the free world we have almost sat on our hands and held one peace meeting after another. It has been peace meetings that have ended in agreements that have not kept because there have been no consequences. Obama's been checked out of the conflict a long time ago. The European Union cannot agree on anything. We have tried to pay Turkey to help, and how often have we seen John Kerry shake hands with one and the other? Nothing's worked. Meanwhile, day after day we see the victims of this tragedy, which is now taking place in the sixth year: the civilians in Syria. This is particularly true of those who have remained in Syria and are fighting a daily battle. Actually, they're the ones I'm most concerned with. These are the 10 million internally displaced persons, many of whom live in dire circumstances. Their children do not go to school, and some of them live in holes in the ground. These are the ones I am most concerned with, and they are the ones that need to be protected. We have to help them. A political solution in Syria has very, very long prospects. There are at least 1,400 armed groups. They are all playing for power and there will be no political solution, either today, tomorrow, next year or in five years' time. But the most urgent thing is to take care of the civilians who are suffering from this conflict. It is not easy to get involved in the misery of the world. We have bad experience of this, for example. Iraq, but the alternative could be worse. Syria is, in fact, a good example of what happens when you remain passive and do not interfere in time. We need to interfere with Obama's red line when Assad started shooting at the peaceful Friday protesters, and not when he started using chemical weapons. There was supposed to be a red line. But you don't just have to meddle to be nice to others and be altruistic. It is also for selfish reasons, for what is happening in our so-called backyard, among other things. in Syria, has consequences for our everyday lives in terms of refugee flows and terror. Then we do not want Syrian refugees in the West, we must protect them in Syria. I am pleased that we have managed to bring together all the parties of the Danish Parliament today, except the Danish People's Party, to strongly condemn what is going on in Syria right now. The famous red lines have long since been broken. We must condemn Assad, Putin, Iran and Hezbollah. They're the ones who kill most civilians, and they're the ones who run civilians. That is why we have made the joint proposal for adoption. But we Conservatives would like to go further after this condemnation. Specifically, we believe that no-fly zones should be worked over large parts of Syria so that civilians can be protected. If you are really serious about protecting civilians, you must impose a ban on flying. It's the planes that kill most civilians. They are the ones who create most refugee flows. Then some people say it's too late. Nothing's too late. It is a question of leadership, it is a question of will. Others say that we'll get into conflict with Putin. I think that's an appeasement argument. It is so unfortunate that in the free world we have deposited our freedom of action in the hands of the dictator Putin. Our inaction in Syria may also have serious consequences for our immediate regions here in Eastern Europe and the Baltic. Putin thinks that when they in the West remain passive and act in Syria, he can also progress in Eastern Europe. That is why it is important that we go for him in concrete terms. We have to say no to his energy, no to Nord Stream 2. We must go after him in terms of sanctions against him personally and people around him, and then we must gather evidence of war crimes. There is much we can do in concrete terms. It is a question of will. I read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Enhedslisten, the Liberal Alliance, the Alternative, Radical, the SF and the Conservative People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Parliament condemns the Assad regime's attacks on its own people in Aleppo and the Iranian and Russian support for it. Parliament calls on the Government to put maximum pressure on the Syrian regime and its supporters to protect the civilian population and supports all efforts to provide more stabilisation and humane assistance. • V (4). • V (4). •
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132000	Thank you. The proposal will be included in the further negotiations. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132007	Thank you. I basically agree that it would be very good if there were to be a flight ban on Syria. But the question is: who is to ban this flight and when can such a flight ban be imposed? I would just like to hear clearly from the Conservatives who are supposed to make this flight ban and whether the Conservatives will support a no-fly around the UN.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132036	Here you go, sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132037	What we think is important is that we say in the first place that we in Denmark believe that there should be a ban on flights. We would like to work towards doing everything we can to put in place a ban on air traffic through the UN Security Council, but that is probably not possible there; Russia will veto it. Why not work towards a coalition of willing people saying: our intention is not to occupy a country, it is not to invade, it is to protect the civilian population, and this can only be done by banning flights. So we support all efforts to impose a ban on flights over Syria and to introduce humanitarian zones.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132118	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132119	I believe that Denmark should work for a UN-led flight ban on Syria. I would urge the Foreign Minister to do so. But an open war with Russia is what will be the consequence of a coalition bypassing the UN. I just want to hear from Mr. Kim. Naser Khader: Don't you want to say clearly to the Danes today from Parliament's platform that it can mean an open war with Russia?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132148	The Rules of Procedure must be observed, they must not be directly indicted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132151	So you are totally naive if you think you can get a flight ban through the Security Council when Russia sits and vetos. So it's completely utopian. Encouraging the government to do so is a free round of the questioner knows it is not possible. That is why I say that we must then work with a coalition of willing ones, and we do not need to go into conflict with Russia. What you can do is just go after Assad's plane, they're the ones who use those barrel bombs that they're throwing at civilians. You can go targeted on Assad's plane.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132228	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132232	But Assad's plane is being protected by Russia. That is, of course, the whole point of Russian intervention down there, namely that there is clear support for Assad, and that is why it has gone so terribly wrong. Will Mr. Does Khader not recognise that, if you cannot get a proper UN mandate, you will have to have an agreement with Russia to have a no-fly zone established, otherwise the aircraft will be on a collision course with each other in the air where everything can happen? This can be done without this, without Russia in one way or another agreeing to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132318	Here you go, sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132320	That is not a new point of view I am making. I have been saying this for 4-5 years: no-fly zones in North Syria and South Syria so that we can protect civilians. It was long before Russia came in and interfered in the conflict that we did not do things in time. I believe that we must continue to work for it, press Russia, threaten Russia that we want to have a ban on flights and say, for example, no to the North Stream gas pipeline passing through the Danish waters, extending sanctions against Putin personally and the circle around him, gathering evidence of war crimes against him, threatening him in every possible way to impose a ban on flights over Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132406	I would just like to say that this is a two-hour urgent question, and we must be careful that time does not run out because too many rapporteurs from the same party are joining us. The Foreign Minister must also be given the opportunity to reply at the end of the day, as everyone would like. But here you go, sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132425	This answer shows that Mr. Naser Khader admits that one has to take Russia into such an operation. Whether it stays through the UN and that is the best thing in our opinion... Russia will have to be involved, otherwise it will be in direct conflict with Russia. And that's why Mr. After all, Mr Khader's proposals are unrealistic, as the situation currently stands. I think that there may be good sense in taking it up. Three or four years ago, I also discussed it myself, but right now it is inevitable that we will have a direct conflict with Russia.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132501	Here you go, sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132502	Again, I regret that we in the West have deposited our freedom of action in the hands of Putin. That's what we've been doing. We're a waste of our lives. We can't do anything, because then we'll get into a conflict with Putin. That's what we're saying. But what is the alternative to no-flying? It is that we continue to see the bloodbath continue in Aleppo and elsewhere in Syria. I know all the objections, it is very easy to raise a lot of objections, but it is a question of will to say: that is what we want and that is what we want to work towards. And then you have to find out if you can get that far. It can be said that this is our position in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132543	Well, then, sir. The Søren Søndergaard word, but I'm still going to ask you to...
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132547	I would like to take the floor, and I will hold back a little later because I think it is important that it is clear from the outset what we are discussing. And I don't think, sir. Naser Khader answered the questions that were from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, about Mr. Naser Khader is ready to risk a war with Russia to enforce a no-fly zone Well, the worst thing that can happen is that you say you want a no-fly zone, that you declare a no-fly zone, and when Putin says the "fly and jump," you give it up again. Then you're really done. So we're gonna need a clear message from sir. Naser Khader: Yes, the Conservative People's Party is ready to risk a conflict with Russia, a world war, possibly a nuclear war, to enforce a flight ban in Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132636	Here you go, sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132638	Oh, my God. So, the whole free world with its strength gives up in advance and says: No, we can't do anything, we can't do anything, because we don't dare come into conflict with Putin. I do not think we should go to war with Russia. We are not going to have a world war either, but we have a lot of handles that we can use to push Putin to accept a ban on flights. The aim is not to go in and occupy the country, it is to protect civilians. If you really are a humanist, you must be in favour of a ban on flights.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132708	Here you go, sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132709	Well, now we have to get back to what Enhedslisten's proposal is. But I just have to say to Mr. Knox. Naser Khader, that Mr. Naser Khader's announcement is completely unclear. Should we declare a no-fly zone, or should we press Russia to accept it? If we are talking about pushing Russia to accept this, we are in it. If we are talking about implementing it in contrast to Russia, we must be ready to take a world war, if necessary. So what is it, sir? Naser Khader means? Is that what we have to do after we have pushed Russia to do so? Okay, so let's discuss how. Or is it that we have to implement it without Russia accepting it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132748	Here you go, sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132749	It is very conscious that we have gone for broad adoption so that there is strong condemnation today. And it is very conscious that we have chosen not to include a ban on flights or anything else, because I think it is extremely important that we are today gathered to condemn the war crimes in Syria. And then I say that the next step could be a ban on flights, sanctions and so on. We must not just declare a no-fly zone without first doing everything we can to persuade the Russians to accept it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132821	Then it's Mrs. Mette Bock, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132823	Thank you. It's kind of the same lead and yet something else. For the issue raised by the rapporteur in relation to Russia, which is constantly blocking, I also believe that there is another track to be pursued: reform of the whole UN system, including the way the Security Council acts. Because I think we have seen the last unanimity in the Security Council at all. And that means that that system has been put out of effect. So, in parallel with working on the other tracks, does the Conservative rapporteur agree that we simply have to put that reform agenda on the table, otherwise we cannot use that system for anything in conflicts of the kind we are facing here?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132906	Here you go, sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132907	I totally agree. Russia sits on the Security Council and blocks everything that benefits humanity. And they really do not have what it takes to get a seat in the Security Council if they were to come in today. There are other countries that have actually overtaken them economically. So we are also in favour of reform of the UN system and the Security Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132936	Mrs. Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132937	So this means that the Conservative rapporteur will also help to encourage the Danish Foreign Minister to carry this to the table in relation to the whole UN system?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132945	Here you go, sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132946	Yeah. And he's listening.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026132951	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026133010	The initial description of the situation presented by both Naser Khader and the Minister for Foreign Affairs is absolutely correct. It is also good that the Folketing condemns what is happening as we do. What remains is, of course, the question that Naser Khader also raises: Why, and as Naser Khader put it, do we do nothing? I do not entirely agree that this is the situation, but I think that if you are to understand it, you need to look at where the different players stand. The first and most obvious actor is, of course, Assad or the Syrian regime. When Aleppo is so important, it is because, if he gets control of Aleppo, Assad finally controls what may be called the largest viable part of the country, i.e. the economy, the main population centres and infrastructure. And he has a negotiating position which will be extremely favourable when a future peace agreement is to be negotiated in some form or another. The second important player is one that has been mentioned a few times today, namely Russia. Russia's objective is, or perhaps rather was, to secure aircraft and naval bases in the Middle East and in the Mediterranean. I believe that the objective has in fact changed slightly to make the Russian presence in Syria now an instrument for securing Russia's position on the international stage, that is, that this is Russia's path and one of the ways back to being a great power again. And Aleppo really becomes the illustration of Russia's position on the global power arena. If I am right, then the conclusion is that Russia is determined to win this part of the war. The third important player, which is inevitable here, is of course the United States. The United States is in the position that they, as the only country, are able to win any war anywhere in the world. But I also think it has to be said that Afghanistan and Iraq have shown the limitations or inability of the United States to win peace afterwards, and that we are therefore currently holding a US President who has come to the conclusion that, as far as Syria is concerned, there are not sufficiently important national American interests threatened to do anything beyond what they are doing at the moment. If one compares with previous substitute wars or cold wars or whatever one wants, one can actually say that Russia's support for one side of the conflict has not been followed by similar American support for the other side. And then it must be said quite frankly that right now we are in a situation in which the United States, over the next six months, has been paralysed by the presidential elections and the change of President. What is, of course, so regrettable and which is the reason for this discussion is that it is contrary to all the wishes we have: the desire for justice, the desire for universal human rights. It is impossible to bear that Assad's absolute cynicism and Putin's indifference to human beings will be victorious in this war. It will actually be a victory of power policy over the will, ability and desire of the international community to intervene. And that is why, of course, we are looking for other solutions. I would like to say to the proposal for a no-fly zone: if you establish a no-fly zone that the Russians will undoubtedly not agree to, either in the UN Security Council or elsewhere, then you must be willing to protect the zone and, if necessary, shoot down Russian aircraft, shoot down Syrian aircraft or defuse Russian aircraft and Russian naval bases. That conclusion is only one country that can draw if they want; it is the United States. And they appear under no circumstances to be ready to step in the direction of a ban on flying, which would mean that you would have to strike back. It must also be said, with the analysis I made today of Russia as an actor, that Russia will not be willing to give itself in that situation at all, and that means that we are actually left with relatively impotent answers. We must, of course, support CIJA, we must support humanitarian aid and so on, but the truth is... Thank you President. Speaking time has long passed) that my speaking time is over now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026133505	It's true. And then you have to observe the Rules of Procedure and say Mr. and Mrs, when you are in the Chamber and stand on the speaking chair of the Folketing. There are no immediate brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. Let me just point out that we are trying to repair the clock. It can be difficult to keep speaking time if it does not work. Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026133540	Thank you. That is a rather special question that has been asked today. The government is being asked to explain how to stop the bloodbath in Aleppo. It is very difficult for me to see how the Danish Government is to stop the acts of war in Aleppo. With all due respect for the strength of the Danish Government, it is probably rather naive to believe that it can control Assad and Russia and the other parties in the war. But of course we can give some hints and advice about what we think works, that is to say to the major parties in the war, including, of course, especially to our coalition partners. We in the Danish People's Party would very much like to see the war over as soon as possible. Our aim with our efforts is to combat the Islamic State, because it is a terrorist who threatens Denmark and other Western countries. Once that has happened, the desire is for some kind of stable regime to be established to prevent the resurrection of the Islamic State. The stability to be achieved can only be achieved if the great powers support it, and therefore it is essential to get negotiations between the great powers on Syria going. Therefore, the Danish People's Party urges the great powers to do everything possible to combat the Islamic State and then to find a negotiated solution to the conflict. It goes without saying that the Geneva Conventions are being observed in the acts of war, which require that civilian persons or civil buildings should not be turned into military targets. The Danish People's Party demands that the parties comply with these rules, whereby civilian losses can be kept to as low a level as possible. The thoughts of a no-fly zone in Syria are sweet and very, very naive, but they are also dangerous. If you try to do that, you risk throwing yourself into a third world war. There is a risk of prolonging the conflict, there is a risk of much more civilian casualties than otherwise. Then Conservatives, in the form of Mr. Naser Khader calls it the only humanist solution to the conflict in Syria, I quite disagree. I guess that's pretty much the opposite. The Danish People's Party is not opposed to the proposal for adoption that has come from Mr. Naser Khader, but we think it is too narrow, and we therefore have another proposal which reads as follows: Proposals for adoption The Parliament demands that the parties to the war comply with the provisions of the Geneva Conventions that no civilian person or building should be made the target of military attacks. The Danish Parliament supports the Danish efforts in the coalition to combat Islamic State. Parliament calls for the parties to the war to start negotiations so that the war can be stopped as soon as possible and unnecessary losses can be avoided. • V 5. • V 5) • V 5)
ParlaMint-DK_20161026133858	Thank you. Sir. Naser Khader for a brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026133859	The rapporteur focused a great deal on the Islamic State, and I agree that they must be combated. They are dangerous to our safety and must be eliminated. We cannot disagree on that. But I would like to ask the rapporteur: who killed most civilians in Syria? Who has caused most refugee flows in Syria? Is it Islamic State or Assad?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026133930	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026133931	It is always unhappy with civilian casualties, and you have to do everything you can to avoid them. However, it is a question of removing the threat that the Islamic State is against us and the Western world and then establishing a peace. Well, it's not about making these counts. If it were that simple, it would be much easier to resolve this conflict. But it is a question of the great powers working together to find a solution. And you don't do that by judging a great power that's a player in this game all the way out. Then we will just have an extension of the conflict and we will not get to the negotiating table. So whether it is Russia or Syria's Assad, there is no point in saying that you simply must not be in it. Because they are otherwise a utopian foreign policy, and then there is a risk of prolonging suffering, prolonging the war and getting more civilian casualties. And I do not think that we should have a conscience, that we should create more civilian casualties, and that is what you will get if you follow Mr. Naser Khader's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026134043	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026134044	Well, I'd like to answer the question. It is Assad who has killed most civilians and caused most of them to flee Syria. My second question is: how does the rapporteur feel about living with the terrorist organisation Hizbollah, the Iranian terrorist regime that executes homosexuals, the dictator Putin, who kills opposition people and journalists? How does the rapporteur feel about living with these people?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026134123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026134124	Well, now I can't see Iran, Hezbollah or Putin right here, so I don't think I'm in the living room with any of them. And I would not like that, I must admit, and I would also find it strange if they were sitting in the Chamber. But something else is that you may think that parties in a war are nasty and there is no doubt that they are • but you have to respond to reality. And if the reality is that there are some nasty parties that influence the situation and they are actually able to stop the war or help to stop the war, then you have to talk to them. Sometimes you may have to talk to the hell yourself to stop a conflict. That is what is called realistic foreign policy, and that is what we should be conducting not an unrealistic foreign policy which leads to an extension of the war and more civilian casualties.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026134215	There are some questioners yet. Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026134221	Thank you. After all, it is difficult not to note that the proposal for adoption, which Mrs Krarup has just read out, does not mention Russia in a word. Is it because we do not recognise the great role that Russia unfortunately plays in relation to the massacre and real war crimes that are taking place in Syria at the moment? So, on the one hand, they are bombing UN convoys, hospitals and the White Helmets, who are otherwise only trying to save civilians, while on the other hand they are repeatedly vetoing trying to find some sort of solution. If we do not recognize this, we should say absolutely absurd offensive, which the Putin regime is currently doing in Syria, and that they are absolutely a
ParlaMint-DK_20161026134313	Here you go, Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026134315	When we have put forward the second proposal for adoption here, it is because we think it is unwise and unrealistic to judge some parties that have a real influence on the conflict as impossible negotiating partners. Then you'll never get a negotiated solution. My question to the Left rapporteur is: how will a negotiated solution be achieved if we do not want to negotiate with some of the parties that have a real influence on the eventual end of the war? How are you going to do that? Should we then have Russia's and Assad's rulers removed from the surface of the earth? It will take quite a long time, and it is actually, as I said, an impossible task without having a third world war. So how will the rapporteur come up with a negotiated solution if we do not want to negotiate with parties that have a real influence on the conflict?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026134409	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026134410	I didn't get any answers. I was not given an answer as to whether we recognise the absolute absurdities of the Putin regime against civilians at the moment and the main responsibility they have in that situation. I hope that's a yes, but I don't know. That is why I would just like to repeat my question instead and then hope that time will be spent answering the question rather than asking a counter-question. It is, after all, in the Folketing that we are now discussing something as serious as the massacre that is currently taking place in Aleppo. So I repeat my question and hope for an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026134449	Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026134450	This is a little ridiculous. Of course, we do not support any attacks on civilians, of course not! Why would we do that? The rapporteur knows that. That is why there is no reason to answer the stupid question. The reason for this is to start a debate with all parties that have a real influence on the war. You will not get that if you say in advance that it is impossible to talk to some of them, since they now have a real influence on the course of war, regardless of whether you like them or not. That is where the rapporteur's policy is utopian and unrealistic and will ultimately lead to an extension of the conflict and thus to more civilian casualties. It is not humanistic, it is absurd and unpleasant.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026134539	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026134542	Oh, my goodness, there's a deal on life. Lavrov and Kerry are practically on each other's laps trying to find solutions all the time, but that hasn't prevented Russia from making this violent attack on the civilian population. What I would like to ask very directly is: will Mrs Marie Krarup recognise that when Russian and Syrian aircraft attack convoys and hospitals time and again, they are war crimes and there is a basis for a case before the War Crimes Tribunal, both against Assad and against Putin?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026134620	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026134621	There is no doubt that if civilians or civil buildings are turned into targets for military attacks, that is wrong. That is a violation, of course we must come for it, and we must do so too. But if, as I said before, people are judged in advance outside without creating an opportunity to get a negotiated solution... so if we say to Kerry now: don't talk to Russia, don't talk to Assad, go to a war criminal court instead of... then the risk of we prolong the war is huge. It's not a way to solve this. So I have to say that we condemn it, of course, if civilian buildings or civilians are deliberately attacked. Of course. However, we still have to be realistic about what is happening and try to stop the war, and we will not do so if we start bringing a case to the War Crimes Tribunal right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026134728	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026134731	Well, we've heard that sermon now. Will you stop it? So, what this is about and what I am asking is: does Mrs Marie Krarup believe that there is a basis for a war criminal case against Putin and Assad in the light of the repeated military attacks on hospitals, relief convoys, etc. At Aleppo?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026134752	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026134753	I mean, I haven't been on the spot, so I don't really know, but if that is the case, then clearly it should be condemned. That's the problem. We need to negotiate with those parties that have a real influence on the conflict. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026134813	Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026134815	After all, today's debate came on top of a week when some of us were surprised to see that Mrs Marie Krarup and the Danish People's Party perceive the European Union as a greater enemy and threat than Russia and perceive Russia as a natural ally. My question is actually very meek. I agree that we must, of course, negotiate, but does the rapporteur see Russia as an ally in Syria?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026134845	Here you go, Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026134846	No, we don't. We're in a coalition with the United States, so we're not allies with Russia. But we believe that it is an ill-thought-out policy that is being pursued by the West. We would very much like to see a more realistic approach and, together with the other parties to the war, we did all we could to combat the Islamic State and then find a negotiated solution. We do not believe that there is any point in bypassing those parties, and here we are thinking of the Assad regime, which has influence in the region. Then, hopefully, you can find a more edible person, if there are any, and put pressure on a future ruler in Syria who can behave better. But there is no point in thinking that we can avoid those who have real influence in the area. Only to invest in Western-oriented forces is not enough, and that is not the way to achieve peace in the region.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026134954	Here you go, sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026134956	As Mr. Holger K. Nielsen has said that intensive negotiations have been going on for three years now, under the auspices of the United Nations and the promise of all parties involved in this conflict, including Russia and Iran. And as far as I can judge in all peaceableness, not least is the willingness of Russia and the Assad regime to agree on the compromise solutions that are on the table with transitional government, and I shall give you. Life is being negotiated, it is the will to make the agreements and stop the war that is lacking. That is why my second question is this: since Russia is not an ally, but rather a show-stopper, i.e. one that deliberately prevents a peace solution, one could then consider not military, but perhaps perhaps, for example. through a more coordinated energy policy to try to put pressure on Russia so that they understand that it is not without costs that we keep alive a conflict that has so many victims and that we do not want to contribute to a negotiated solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026135059	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026135100	I ask myself, every time I hear this argument, what it really is, Radical Left and also Conservatives because they come up with a lot of the same arguments. In other words, you want to say to a party to the conflict, and that is, in fact, a party to the world: your national interests have no meaning, we cannot take them into account, we are not involved in proper negotiations. We want you to die a silent strangulation death because you must not be able to dispose of your products. What does that lead to? Then you have to wage a war against the party to the conflict, which is then Russia before you can find a solution. Somehow I find it creepy, because it is a proposal for a third world war.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026135150	Thank you. Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026135152	Thank you. After all, the discussion we have had is not about whether to negotiate with Russia or Iran for that matter. When Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Minister for Foreign Affairs, began to demand from the Danish side that Iran be included in the negotiations. The Enhedslisten supported this, but it rejected the Danish People's Party at the time. This isn't a debate about who to negotiate with. This is a discussion about a adoption text from a united Parliament except the Danish People's Party, which condemns the war crimes of Iran, Assad and Russia. When the Danish People's Party will not support a text that condemns Iran and Russia, I would like to know whether Mrs Marie Krarup will now condemn Iran and Russia from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026135246	Here you go, Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026135247	We condemn war crimes and acts of violence against civilians, and this applies to all parties involved in such acts, and we therefore believe that the text of the resolution is too narrow. We can not vote against it, so it is fine. But it is not good enough, because of course we must condemn all those who commit abuse. It is not good enough, and that is the problem with it. It is not that it can be used at all, if I may say so, but it is that it is not broad enough, because it must, of course, condemn all those who commit such acts.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026135322	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026135324	I have heard no one say today that they will not condemn war crimes. After all, it is not the case that there is a text for adoption that will not condemn war crimes. What I just want to hear from the Danish People's Party's rapporteur with a yes or no is: Will Russia and Iran's war crimes in Syria be condemned in concrete and clear terms from the parliamentary platform today?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026135348	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026135349	We condemn all war crimes, all countries that commit war crimes. It is Iran, it is Russia, every country I can think of. So I can't really understand what it is that is being fished for. I would say that our proposal for adoption is broader, so we might as well take it instead, and I would certainly recommend the rest of the parliamentary parties to vote in favour of it, because it includes everything in the second proposal for adoption without judging only certain countries outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026135426	Then it's Mrs. Mette Bock, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026135428	Thank you. I therefore very much agree with the rapporteur that we must pursue a realistic foreign policy. And I actually have a little bit of difficulty in seeing what it really is for a contradiction being put up here. You have to follow several tracks, not just one track to follow, because it may turn out that it ends blindly or is endless. It has to be said that there have been attempts for years to negotiate. It has been said to Assad, and it has been said to all parties, to all those who are interested: let us sit together, let us try to find a solution. So far, it has not succeeded. What, then, is the contradiction? I think that the text of the Danish People's Party is excellent, but we cannot vote in favour of two texts. But there is a contradiction in condemning the parties, as we know the alternative is that we have to wait for Russia to say at some point: now we want to do something. According to Marie Krarup, how long should we keep waiting before saying that we now have to move and do something else to move forward in relation to a conflict resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026135537	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026135539	I find it difficult to understand that question, because what can be done? What is it you can move? Is it by setting up these no-fly zones, which we know will exacerbate the conflict, will prolong it and which may well increase the conflict much? I guess the reality is that there isn't much else to do. I mean, I call for negotiations to be entered into, but negotiations are such that people only take them seriously when they are tired and ready to negotiate and also feel that they can get some things through in negotiations. And I guess that's what we have to wait for. It's unpleasant, and everyone in this room, I'm sure, would wish it happened today. But to think that you can just press some contact and make it happen now seems illusory to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026135630	Mrs. Mette Bock. I repeat once again that Members are not directly addressed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026135635	Nor is it my impression that there is someone in this Chamber who thinks that you can just press a button and then things are solved. Well, we all know that this is all too complicated for it to be possible. But if Mrs Krarup can then tell me whether we can just say that things have to go as they go; that we have to wait until all the parties involved are ready to find some sort of solution, while seeing that there is an attack on the civilian population, while at the same time there is no indication that, among other things, there is a danger that the situation will continue. Assad, Russia and Iran are even interested in putting an end to this conflict? Should we sit back and say, 'Sorry, we can't do anything?'
ParlaMint-DK_20161026135714	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026135715	I wish you could do something, but what can you do? What can be done? And you don't have to sit back and enjoy the sight of terrible acts, because that's horrible. If you had a solution, you'd use it, but it's not there. Such are the harsh realities, and that is terrible, but war is terrible. At any rate, the solution is not the one that we have put on the table today and that I have also understood that the Liberal Alliance does not support either. However, I believe that we are in the bitter situation where there are no easy solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026135746	Then it's mr. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026135749	In fact, my question is a bit of a variety of a few questions that have been asked a few times before in the Chamber today by both Mr Giscard d'Estaing and Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Michael Aastrup Jensen as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen and to some extent also by Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, who has not been answered, so I will try to formulate it as simply as possible. Is it the rapporteur's view that Russia is breaking the laws of war with its efforts in the war in Syria?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026135820	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026135821	I don't know. I mean, I haven't been there. I haven't collected any evidence in these cases. Others do, and I think they should. But I simply cannot answer it. The problem is that if you say in advance to those parties which have a major influence on the course of war in Syria that they are war criminals, that you cannot talk to them and that you interrupt diplomatic relations or whatever you do, then you have completely missed the chance to get a solution down there. That is what I want to warn you about.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026135905	Sir. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026135907	Well, I am not talking about what the consequences might be, nor did I ask what the rapporteur knew or what the rapporteur did not know. I just asked and now I ask that there be a good hearing after the rapporteur's assessment that Russia is breaking the laws of war with its efforts in the war in Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026135929	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026135930	My answer is that I cannot assess that, because I cannot know that. As I say, I haven't been on the scene collecting evidence. I think there are many, many ugly things being done. Yeah, I think civilians are being killed. I think this is an abuse, and I hope, of course, that we will have the opportunity to do away with it at some point, but the time is not for this kind of legal proceedings now. It'll have to come later. The time has come to find a solution so that there will be peace and there will be peace as soon as possible so that it does not drag on and there will be even more losses.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026140007	Thank you. Then there are no more questions for the rapporteur. Thank you. Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go. It will help a little in this short time that I feel like we have, if you go up to the rapporteur's table, knowing that you are the next rapporteur and if I do not have to correct too many times, because it also takes time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026140024	Thank you for that, President. I promise next time I'll run a little faster up to the platform. A real bloodbath is currently taking place in Aleppo. The whole world can keep up while Assad and Putin bomb civilians in the east of Aleppo. The ceasefire did not last for many hours, and there is no doubt that the Syrian-Russian plan has always been to bomb the regime's opponents away. Up to 275,000 people are trapped in the eastern part of Aleppo, and many of them do not have access to drinking water and other basic necessities. The Russian and Syrian bombs do not distinguish between civilian and military targets, a waterworks has been hit, hospitals are hit and even a UN emergency convoy has been bombed. The siege of the eastern part of Aleppo is a humanitarian disaster, and responsibility for the scary crimes can be placed in the presidential palaces of Damascus and the Kremlin. There is no doubt that the Assad regime would have been forced to its knees if it were not for Russian help. It is Russia that is keeping the conflict in Syria alive, and it is Russia that has extended the bloodshed. We should therefore strongly condemn Russian involvement in the conflict. Russia is inundated with Assad and has thus resigned from the group of countries which are trying to find a peaceful solution to the conflict. It is not because there has been a lack of initiatives by the international community to stop the conflict or simply to ensure that basic emergency aid can come forward. At the beginning of this month, a resolution was tabled again in the United Nations Security Council, on the initiative of France and Spain, aimed at halting the bombing of Aleppo and creating access for humanitarian aid. It was an initiative which had Danish support, but unfortunately Russia once again vetoed, and so it did not happen. Once again, Russia was on the wrong side to protect its criminal allies in the Assad regime. It is a disgrace to the international community that Russian vetoing time and time again costs human lives. Of course, this also shows the weakness of the UN system, but the ultimate responsibility lies solely with Russia and President Putin. As an elected official or just as a spectator of the atrocities in Syria, one feels that one should do something. Denmark participates in the international coalition, which aims to defeat ISIL in Syria and Iraq. Fortunately, progress is being made here, the terrorist organisation is on its heels. As much as we would like to put an end to the regime and put Assad and his cronies before a court, it is difficult to see what Denmark can do on its own. As you know, there are no international efforts in this direction either. There are already far too many regional actors involved in the war in Syria, and the prospect of a military confrontation with Russia will not make Syria or the world a better place. For the Left, it is crucial that we support the initiatives taken at the United Nations to bring the parties to the negotiating table or at least to create a ceasefire so that the civilians in Aleppo can escape from the bomb hell. At the same time, Denmark is participating with emergency aid in the neighbourhood, and Danish aid crowns help to make a huge difference to real, very many people. So all in all, I think it is an important and a good signal that at least the vast majority of the Danish Parliament, i.e.. all parties minus the Danish People's Party, here today can send a clear signal that we strongly condemn the war crimes committed by the Assad regime, by the Russian side and with Iranian assistance. And that is why we in the Left are pleased to support the proposal for adoption on this subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026140400	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next one is sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026140447	The situation in Aleppo is a humanitarian disaster. The bombing of civilians and hospitals by the Assad regime and Russia are clear war crimes. These war crimes must be stopped. It's not time for discouragement, it's time for action. The most crucial thing right now is to put massive pressure on the Assad regime and, above all, to put massive pressure on the supporters of the Assad regime, Russia, Iran and the Iraqi Government in Baghdad. If it were not for the Russian bombers, the Iranian revolutionary guard and the Iraqi Shia militias, Assad would have been overturned long ago by his own people. Specifically, it is essential to raise the price of Russian, Iranian and Iraqi support for Assad. Firstly, the war crimes must be investigated so that the responsible scoundrels know that they can be tried, whether they are Putin, Rohani, Abadi or Assad. Secondly, they must be put under diplomatic and economic pressure. Denmark must work actively to ensure that Russia and Iran are pressured to the maximum at the UN. On several occasions Russia has used its right of veto in the Security Council. It is frustrating to look at this and it underlines the importance of reform of the United Nations. But every time Putins weakens...
ParlaMint-DK_20161026140640	Excuse me, hold on a second. I'd like to ask the audience to sit down in their seats. Do not use a flash when taking photos. Photos can be taken, but no flashes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026140655	On several occasions Russia has used its veto in the Security Council. It is frustrating to look at this and it underlines the importance of reform of the United Nations. But every time, Putin's international reputation and reputation are weakened. This pressure needs to be continued. Denmark must work for a UN-led no-fly over Syria. It will push Assad and Putin to the negotiating table so that a ceasefire and hopefully a lasting peaceful solution can be achieved. In recent years, Mr. Naser Khader repeatedly called for a ban on flying outside the United Nations. I would like to emphasise clearly so that there is no doubt in the debate that this means an open war against Russia, because there are Russian fighters and there are Russian anti-aircraft fighters in Syria. It is a war that risks having completely incalculable consequences...
ParlaMint-DK_20161026140752	Wait a minute. I have to say that if this continues in the gallery, I would ask you to go out. Well, then, the MP's gonna have to take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026140822	I hope that I will have the time on top of my speaking time, because now two minutes have passed, I have been counting on it. The President is not there, but I will see to it that there is some extra speaking time). It can have completely incalculable consequences with an open war against Russia, and it can also have consequences for Danish citizens in Denmark. The proposal for a ban on flying outside the United Nations seems to be a concrete proposal for action, but in the real world it merely exhibits impotence. The situation in Aleppo and Syria is not solved by impenetrable proposals. The situation is resolved by concrete action. Time and again, the democratic forces in Syria have been abandoned. Not only are they being bombed by Assad and Russia. On Saturday, Turkish President Erdogan announced that he had killed up to 200 Kurdish self-defense forces from YPG just north of Aleppo forces forming part of the rebel alliance SDF, which brings together Arabs, Kurds and Christians in a desire for democracy and diversity in Syria. This alliance gets air support from Denmark and the United States. So you want to use pro-democratic insurgents as cannon fodder against ISIL, but when they are bombed by NATO's allies in Turkey, the criticism will not be heard. Honestly, it's a failure. I would like to take this opportunity today to send a clear call to the Foreign Minister: from the Turkish attacks on the freedom fighters from the SDF, do not let President Erdogan fail and weaken the fight against ISIL; put Putin under maximum diplomatic and economic pressure; use the UN to expose the Russian war crimes; use all the opportunities from the Danish side to increase the economic cost of Putin; force Assad and Putin to the negotiating table so that a ceasefire and a lasting peaceful solution can be created; follow up the debate today with action.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026141053	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026141059	The rapporteur focuses a great deal on the fact that we should not be in conflict with the dictator Putin and Russia. If we now assume that at some point Putin is invading one of the Baltic countries that are members of NATO, should we not confront him for fear of a third world war? Should we ask for dialogue coffee on the occasion of his invasion of the Baltic?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026141129	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026141134	After all, it is not the Baltics that are being discussed today, and we all know that the Baltic countries are part of the NATO alliance and that there is an agreement to go to war if you are attacked. But Syria is not part of the NATO alliance, and I think it is quite important to discuss something so serious as war that you are quite honest and quite clear, and frankly I do not think that Mr. Naser Khader has been ready today. In other words, we are in a situation where Putin, if we impose a ban on flying outside the United Nations, either accepts it or does not accept it. If he does not accept it, he must either bow down or take an open war with Russia, and Mr. Naser Khader to give a clear answer to the Danish population. Will Mr. Naser Khader take an open war with Russia yes or no? Otherwise, it is an empty and impotent demand, and then we should focus much more on the things that, among other things, are important. The Enhedslisten proposes, which can really be done and can work?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026141236	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026141241	I know that Syria is not a member of NATO I am well aware of that. But what is happening in Syria has consequences for the Baltic countries and other Eastern European countries. When Putin can see that we do not react and remain passive in Syria, it may well be that it makes him progress in the Baltic countries, and then we have to confront him. Or should we just have a cup of coffee with him? I mean, we all have to stop NATO if he goes on in the Baltic States, but no one is talking about World War III.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026141313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026141317	The problem with NATO is not that Putin is doing anything. The problem with NATO, when we talk about Syria, is that there is a NATO member, Turkey, who is actively attacking the pro-democratic rebels. We have to do something about that; it simply cannot be right. But when Naser Khader talks about an open war with Russia, and that's it, sir. Naser Khader, if you bypass the UN then you have to say it openly to the Danish people. Mr. Naser Khader does not, and I find that deeply disappointing. Instead of having a skin discussion about something that is not going to happen, let us address what we can actually do. Let us use the UN, let us use economic and diplomatic pressure, and let us actively support the pro-democratic rebels against attacks both by Assad, by Putin and, unfortunately, also by the NATO country Turkey.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026141414	Thank you. There are no more questions. Next is Mrs. Mette Bock, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026141424	A great many things have been said, and we are getting around widely in the discussion. There's a reason for that. This is a conflict which is not only concentrated on Aleppo, but also on the whole of Syria and the whole area down there. Indeed, if we look a little further forward, we can say that it is concentrated on the whole world's security situation. I think that some of the discussion has been a little barren. Two proposals have been submitted for adoption. I would like to say that I fully agree with the text put forward by the Danish People's Party. There is nothing in it that I think can be opposed, because of course the Geneva Conventions must be observed and, of course, we must condemn all those who have committed acts of violence against the civilian population. That goes without saying. However, if we nevertheless support the broad political proposal for adoption, it is because we think there is reason to name some of those who we know have committed these abuses. That is why the Liberal Alliance supports the broad proposal for adoption, which Mr. Naser Khader made his speech. Looking at what is happening in Syria and what has happened in recent years, we are, I believe, all agreed that the international community has simply failed and that the humanitarian disaster is enormous. But the fact that something has failed does not mean that we have to give up. We simply have a humanitarian duty to intervene internationally when a government refuses to protect its own civilian population and even takes the lead in the attacks on the civilian population. It is simply a disgrace and it must be condemned in the strongest possible terms. On the other hand, we must also recognise it in the international community when the tracks that have been followed so far end blindly, or when it looks as if they continue indefinitely. We must take military, diplomatic and humanitarian action, but when it turns out that it is a desert migration, we must also be willing to look at new ways of doing things and possibly take other tools out of the box. I think it is very important that we call on the Danish Foreign Minister and the Danish Government to put forward reforms to the UN system. We know that Russia has blocked decisions time and again. This shows that there is a need for reforms that will enable the UN system to actually navigate the kind of conflicts that we have in the world today. And the kind of conflict we have is quite different from the conflicts we had in the past, not only 50 years ago, but also 10, 15 and 20 years ago. Politically, after years of inviting Assad to the negotiating table, we know that this has proved to be an impossible track. It has been believed and worked on that Assad should become part of a solution for Syria and the conflicts around Syria. That track has ended blindly a long time ago, and that is why we need to tackle negotiated solutions where they say that Assad cannot be a part of it. Russia has also shown that they do not want to be a part of it. But then those who are willing to find solutions must sit down and see how to move forward. It has been said here from the platform that, in a realistic foreign policy, everyone involved must be invited to join because all those involved are in the real world. So are they. But I think that Russia has played its own cards in that area. If you think of this historically, there are many examples in the history of conflicts and wars where you have tried to find peace solutions involving all parties, but in the end you have had to say that it is an impossible trail to follow and that we have to do something else. I'm just thinking about the end of World War II. I am pleased to hear that the Foreign Minister, in his presentation here, is suggesting that there are more funds on the way to the neighbourhood, because we can see, not least in these hours and days, that the humanitarian disaster is going up sharply as if it were not large enough in advance. So we recognise that there are no easy solutions. There are no buttons you can just press. We call for thinking in new ways and thinking in new ways. And we appreciate the importance the Danish Government attaches to making its voice heard in relation to the reform of the UN system; in relation to the work and efforts being made in the coalition, but also in relation to the humanitarian effort, which is unfortunately necessary and will probably also be necessary for many years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026141900	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026141913	First of all, I would like to thank the Conservatives for calling this question debate, because it is of course important that we focus on the atrocities and abuses that are taking place around the world. It is also important that we have an open debate on what opportunities we have to help resolve these conflicts, and for this we have a responsibility to highlight both the advantages and the disadvantages of our actions. I must make it quite clear that, of course, the alternative actions and war crimes that we see in Syria also condemn. We condemn Russia and Assad's attacks on the civilian population in Syria and Aleppo. We are appalled at the images coming from Aleppo, pictures of killed, innocent civilians, women, children, yes, people who have done nothing other than actually be in the wrong place at the wrong time. Thousands of civilians have died in the intensification of the conflict in recent months. The entire district is in ruins, and the pictures are most similar to Berlin in 1945. But it's Aleppo, and we're writing 2016. But there are no easy solutions. There are no easy solutions to stop the war in Syria or the bombing of Aleppo or stop the attacks on civilians. The use of cluster bombs, attacks on relief convoys and hospitals is a violation of international law, and there have been UN people calling the attacks in Aleppo war crimes. We believe that, under the auspices of the United Nations, we must strengthen the possibility of investigating war crimes and attacks on humanitarian objectives. Many people have a lot of blood on their hands, and it is important that we get to the bottom of these cases and get proof of war crimes. In this respect, it is important to emphasise that there must be equality before the law. The possible war crimes of all actors must be investigated. It is possible that it will be very difficult to have such a body made really workable within the UN, and that is why we should not deny that it is perhaps the European Union that should go further and look at how to investigate possible war crimes. We also believe that we should follow Sweden, Germany and France, because in these countries we are actually doing a great deal of investigating possible human rights violations. What about sanctions against Russia? Yes, it is a very tempting tool, but do we actually have evidence that it works? I'm not convinced of that. But we have to act. We just need to be very careful that we do not create cold war states. But most of all, we need to think about the victims in Syria. If we close the possibility of dialogue, we risk deteriorating conditions for civilians in Syria. We must do everything we can to stop the conflict and war crimes, but our actions must not help to escalate the conflict or the violence against civilians. Our eagerness to do something must not do more harm than good. We cannot resolve the conflict in Syria and Aleppo with more bombs and military intervention. Some believe that we should support a no-fly, but we believe that this is a very, very dangerous escalation of the conflict. A no-fly is a military operation and therefore a no-fly will probably be interpreted as a declaration of war against Russia. The alternative does not want one-sided no-flying in Syria, without the United Nations, because the Syrian air defence is also located in densely populated areas, and enforcement of this no-flying will cost a lot of civilian lives. I also miss an answer on how to follow up this military intervention. What's gonna happen after that? Who should we work with, and who should protect civilians? A ban on flying will only work for the civilian population if it is precisely the UN Security Council that is behind it. It is not because I have the perfect solution, but we should not embrace solutions that escalate conflict and military, and we should not embrace solutions that escalate the loss of civilian life. I believe that the levers we have to screw up are the humanitarian and diplomatic handles. It is difficult to see a solution to the war in Syria without including all parties to the conflict. For Aleppo, it is absolutely crucial that the United States and Russia re-establish cooperation on a ceasefire where safe humanitarian corridors are to be created so that civilians can get out safely. Russia is very concerned about their image in the world, and that is why they are using many resources to communicate a different picture than what we recognise, and that is why I think we should also look at the role we can play with such a slightly softer power, in which we exhibit that Russia stands alone and that the rest of the world community is opposed to their actions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026142357	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left, has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026142402	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist was concerned about the difficult balance between expressing the will that this must stop and, on the other hand, taking the path of dialogue to try to resolve the conflict. I think that's a balance we all recognize ourselves in. However, some of us may think that, as it has developed, especially with the role of Russia and Iran, there may also be a need for some political pressure. And that made me wonder what the alternative's position really is on the sanctions currently being applied by the European Union against Russia, including whether it would be possible to increase political pressure, for example. by ensuring greater communication in the field of energy and thus also being able to use energy policy in the European Union as a form of political pressure as an alternative to militaristic pressure. But is the alternative at all in favour of ever putting such pressure on anyone?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026142456	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026142500	Yes, we certainly do. But we have to ask ourselves when it will work. Where is the limit to the fact that we also have the dialogue? I fully agree with Mr. Martin Lidegaard in relation to the Energy Union. And I think that we are also thinking about the whole situation around the Nord Stream gas pipeline. For many reasons, I believe that we must strengthen our independence from energy sources from outside the EU countries. But what we just have to ask ourselves is when we reach the border and the dialogue will be completely killed by sanctions. And that is the balance that I find very difficult to find, and that is what we have to ask ourselves about continuously.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026142534	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026142537	I fully agree with that, and I am also pleased that the alternative shares our thoughts on energy union. But in the situation we are in right now, could I ask the alternative: do you think there is an appropriate level of sanctions, or do you think it is time to increase the pressure a little or the opposite?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026142557	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026142601	I think that right now we have a level of sanctions that allows us to have a dialogue as well. And I am concerned that, if the sanctions are being tightened up right now, we should lose the dialogue with Russia, which I believe is absolutely essential if we are to move forward in dealing with this conflict. That's the picture I have from the outside. There's a lot of information I don't have, but that's how I'm reading the situation right now. We must be very careful to turn up sanctions right now, because we need to have that dialogue and that line open.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026142628	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026142653	This is a very, very exciting discussion. Does the alternative mean that sanctions are the reason why there is no proper dialogue with Russia? Isn't it more the case that Putin is completely untrustworthy and untrustworthy and has actually run from virtually everything that has been agreed? Isn't that a bigger problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026142711	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026142715	Well, I completely agree that this is a huge problem. However, we must constantly look at when sanctions will be so powerful that we will completely shut down the dialogue. And that is where I am now very, very careful to say that we must turn the sanctions up. Because the only thing that can save civilian life in Aleppo right now is that we get that dialogue going. We cannot suddenly talk about a no-fly and intensify the military presence from other countries here and now. We need to get the dialogue up and I am worried that if sanctions are seriously raised now and here, we will lose that opportunity and I say opportunity; I am not standing there and I am sure there is, for dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026142758	Thank you. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026142805	Yes, but I still think it is important to know whether the background to Russia's totally unacceptable policy in Syria is the sanctions or whether it is that Russia has a policy of power and cynicism, where it is willing to use all the means and, if I may say so, not to make agreements with, because the agreements in question are being broken shortly after. Well, isn't that a bigger problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026142833	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026142835	I am sorry if the questioner has got the understanding that I think it is the sanctions that have created Russia's policy. I don't think so at all. I am talking about how to establish the dialogue that is needed to resolve this conflict, and I just think that one should be careful to turn up sanctions now and here. But, of course, it is not the sanctions that have pushed Russia into these absolutely monstrous reactions that they have at the moment politically or militarily.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026142902	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard. I'm sorry, sir. Holger K. Nielsen had not actually entered the board, so something has happened. It wasn't resentment on my part. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026142912	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader and the Conservatives for having raised this urgent debate on one of the greatest tragedies of our time, a vile conflict, vile abuse, which I believe fills all those who have influence and power with impotence. Because what are we gonna do? What can be done in a situation that is so complex and with such strong interests and so bad will involved as in Syria at the moment, and not least in relation to the quite specific attacks on Aleppo with almost unshakable images and scary consequences? There is no simple answer to that question. However, there is, I believe, an insidious realization that what we are experiencing in Syria today is exhibiting a general phenomenon in our new world order, which can be put on the following formula with a very brief description: in the rapidly growing world, where the economy is growing especially outside the borders of the free world, and where the military capabilities of countries such as Russia, Saudi Arabia, Iran and China are growing, the free world will constantly have to ask itself: what is our best means of putting pressure on those states when they go a hero, quite different from that which we think is right? I see a very long way along the way the war in Syria as a proxy war between the regional major powers, including Russia, Iran and Saudi Arabia, where civilians have been taken hostage by a number of more or less brutal regimes. What are our real chances of influencing the battlefield if we do not have a desire to enter militarily and risk triggering a purely Armageddon in a military conflict with the new great powers, which we could certainly kid, but only with almost unimaginable consequences? I can come to no other conclusion than that the most realistic and the best answer to it is sanctions in various forms... not because sanctions are precise instruments, not because there are no risks associated with sanctions, but because they are a better alternative than military operations, and because it is possible, if they are designed properly, to hit into the heart of those regimes... not the countries, but the regimes... and the despots, which are the ones leading the puppets on the ground in Syria at the moment. This applies both, it may be said, to greater sanctions, such as those we are experiencing in the case of Crimea and the Ukraine conflict, but it could also be milder forms of sanctions: bringing together EU countries for an energy union and a policy that affects those countries, hitting regimes that base their entire power and governance and their entire economy on exports of, for example. oil and gas, where it hurts most the regimes. That is why I believe that the European Union could play a greater role than the European Union does in a situation where the Security Council of the United Nations is locked. What it is about is putting pressure on the forces that orchestrate and finance the war in Syria and, incidentally, many of the extremist movements that we are also suffering in both Syria and the Middle East. I therefore believe that the way forward here will be for the Danish Government to take the lead in doing what is a good idea for many reasons, namely to ensure that it is 400 billion. The European Union's annual energy imports can be used more as a security policy tool, both as a stick and as a carrot. That would be my best idea of how we can, hopefully, move slowly out of the present tragedy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026143334	Thank you to the rapporteur. One person has asked for a brief comment. Perhaps we should try to limit it to a few brief comments, so that we will have time to get the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the end as well. But for the time being, sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026143353	Thank you. Well, we totally share Mr. Simpson's opinion. Martin Lidegaard's criticism of Russia in this case. We also fully share the desire for targeted sanctions. Absolutely. Where things get a little weary for us is if it turns out that it is really a different purpose than what you say is behind it. It can, for example. Uncover if you have one standard in relation to some who interfere, but another standard in relation to some others who interfere. That's why I just want to hear sir. Martin Lidegaard, if it was an accident, an oversight that Mr. Martin Lidegaard did not mention Turkey when one spoke of the proxy war in Syria. So Turkey, which a few days ago killed 200 young men and women, Christians, Arabs, Kurds because they allow themselves in their own country to fight for freedom, against the Islamic State and Assad; Turkey, which today, while we have been sitting here, has announced that they will prevent YPG and YPJ, Kurds in Syria, from participating in the liberation of Raqqa. Was it not an oversight that Turkey was not also mentioned?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026143504	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026143508	There is no doubt that the developments we are seeing in Turkey at the moment go completely, completely wrong, and that there is reason to raise every possible criticism of what is going on, among other things. the things Søren Søndergaard mentioned. But if I did not mention Turkey in this context, it is because Turkey, just when it comes to energy imports, is a less obvious target, because you do not have energy imports from Turkey.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026143527	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026143532	Now Mr. Martin Lidegaard has a number of countries that have interests in Syria, but just did not mention Turkey. But I think it's fine if it was an oversight or if it was just for other reasons. That is why I should like to ask: Martin Lidegaard from here does not say clearly that it is a huge problem with Turkey's maneuvering around Syria, which is increasingly taking place in accordance with Russia and in an alliance with Russia and in an alliance with Assad? - Sir... Martin Lidegaard didn't make it clear from Parliament's platform?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026143610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026143613	I think I have made it quite clear that what Turkey is doing at the moment is problematic. I am not sure that I can confirm the image of a very, very close alliance between Russia and Turkey, because it is a little more spawned than that. There is an alliance on some lines, and on others it is not at all, and I think, after all, there is a slight difference, not to say a big difference, between what Russia is doing with systematic barrel bombing of civilian areas in Aleppo right now and what is happening on Turkey's part. But it is not because I want to justify what is happening on Turkey's part at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026143645	Thank you to the rapporteur. This brings us to the SF's rapporteur, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026143652	After all, we are all appalled at what is happening in Aleppo, which is actually relatively close to Europe's borders, and therefore there is every reason to support the proposal for adoption on which Parliament has agreed today. It is also important and important to me to say that Aleppo symbolises in many ways the entire conflict that is taking place in Syria, in that all the different conflicts are part of what we see in Aleppo at the moment and how the conflicts in Syria are absurdly entangled. It is Assad, whom we criticise in the proposal for adoption today, which is the main reason for what we can see in Aleppo, but what we do on the Danish side is not that we have gone to war with Assad, but that we have gone to war with the Islamic State. Assad is also at war with the Islamic State, and he actually argues that when he has to bomb various civilian targets, it is because it is factions that support the Islamic State, and it is for the sake of the fight against the IS that he goes in and bombs the various groupings in Aleppo. At the same time, there is also the fact that Turkey is intervening with its very, very special agenda. In other words, the whole situation in Aleppo is an expression of how completely insane and complex the Syrian conflict is and how difficult it is to intervene on the part of the West. I have also had thoughts about what could be done at an earlier stage, but I do not think there are many of us who can really say that we have not made any mistakes when it comes to this whole conflict, about things we should have done in the past and things we should have done differently. I certainly think it would have been appropriate to talk about a corridor, just as it was in the Balkans at a time when it could have been done. You just can't really do that right now, precisely because we have reached that point and because Russia is so clearly a part of it. I certainly believe and it is also a criticism of our own view that the moderate rebels should have been armed earlier. Actually, I think you should have. We have discussed this several times, and there were many of us who disagreed with it because we were afraid that the weapons could end up in the wrong hands, but I think that the rebels should have been armed earlier, both the Kurdish rebels, but also the moderate rebels in the FSA, because they received far too little help in relation to the attacks they were subjected to on the part of Assad. I think it was a mistake that we did not do so, and that means that we have put the forces we had put our trust in, in an overly weak situation in this internal conflict in Syria, where Russia has, after all, gone much more determinedly on the basis of Russian power interests. The Russians want a power base in the Middle East now; for the first time in many, many years, military intervention has taken place directly in Syria; I do not believe that it has been done since sometime in the 1960s; it is an expression that Russia now feels a new self-confidence, and that one wants a power base for a much more proactive Russian Middle East policy. It is, of course, legitimate for Russia to do so, but that only means that we have to take it into account in our deliberations with Russia, and that we also, at least to the extent that Russia is doing what they are doing at the moment, go in and support a totally brutal dictator and make war crimes, have to be very, very clear in our opposition to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026144123	Thank you to the rapporteur. We have thus reached the point of giving the Minister for Foreign Affairs the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026144135	I would like to start by thanking you for the proposal for adoption, which a very, very broad circle of parliamentary parties is behind. I think it is both right and timely that in this way we strongly reject what is happening and that we have also named directly who bears the main responsibility for the carnage we are seeing in Aleppo at the moment. You can talk a lot back and forth about what's happening, but there's one thing you can't get around. We cannot escape the fact that the civilian population is being bombed in Aleppo, that there have been constant attacks on civilian installations in Aleppo, nor can we escape the fact that those who have planes over Aleppo, those who have fired cruise missiles against Aleppo, are Assad and his allies in Russia. That is why I think it is quite reasonable and appropriate to name what is happening. I would also like to say that the debate has shown how complex this situation is. There are no easy solutions, as I said in my reply, nor is it an easy solution simply to ask for a ban on flights, because a ban on flights without a UN mandate will lead us into a conflict with Russia in which I have no interest and in which I do not think any of us have an interest. And a ban on flights through the UN is an illusion in the situation we are currently in, because the price of blocking from Russia a decision that would put an end to the acts of war is not high enough. Russia must pay a higher price before they are interested in moving. So, what's the higher price that could be? Yes, there are a number of different tools that you can use in the diplomatic toolbox. Diplomacy is in good and bad words. We use words, both to praise and to create dialogue, but also to identify and name responsible people. That is why it is so important that we talk directly about what is happening in Aleppo and that we dare to say directly that what is happening is bordering on war crimes, it is bordering on human rights abuses. And no, I haven't been to Aleppo. I was also not in concentration camps between 1939 and 1945, but I have still seen enough documentation to know what happened from 1939 to 1945 and what is currently happening in Aleppo. It is a very special thought that only what you have seen with your own eyes and can document is something you have to respond to. If so, there would be many things in foreign policy that should not be responded to at all. There are many things we actually respond to, despite the fact that we have not been there ourselves because we know that it is our obligation to respond. I do not share the picture that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist has said that imposing sanctions would lead to a disruption of the dialogue. We have had the dialogue for a long time, we have had the dialogue in the United Nations, in the Security Council, we are on the side of Denmark on a resolution, we have had the dialogue through the ISSG, we have had the direct dialogue between Russia and the United States, between Lavrov and John Kerry, for so long that we have almost spoken hoarsely without it having moved anything. What is needed to move the dialogue and to make the dialogue make sense? I believe that something more needs to be done on the table, and that is why sanctions, in combination with continued dialogue, are what is needed for • not an alternative to dialogue. We also have sanctions against Russia in relation to Ukraine, while there is a dialogue both directly and in the so-called Normandy Format. It's not a either-or, I think it's a boat-and-and, and I think it's necessary. I would like to say that I disapprove of the bombing that has taken place in Turkey against Kurdish troops, and we have done so in the past when it happened. This is about the conflict between alliance partners in the conflict with ISIL. We call on everyone, firstly, to refrain from fighting each other and, secondly, to respect the sharing of tasks agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026144556	Thank you, Minister. The first brief remark is from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026144601	Thank you, and thank you very much to the Minister, yes, two tracks, so you have to choose. There's a short time. With regard to sanctions, I would really like to hear a little about what the Minister can see that the current sanctions have actually led to. That is because I am seriously concerned about where the balance lies, and that is also what I hope has shined through what I said. It is, after all, a question of keeping that balance at all times. I am concerned that we are not going to see a boost on the path of sanctions, but that it is more about the diplomatic trail, about showing Russia, about what they are doing, going through the United Nations so that they can continue to sit there and press their veto button and have them show up alone. So couldn't the Minister put a few more words on that exact balance? What have we got out of the sanctions so far, how far do we have to go with them in terms of getting more jerks in this, which is what we are all interested in?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026144653	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026144656	The challenge is that, on the path of sanctions against Syria, we have not really had a breakthrough so far, because Russia, in the UN Security Council, has blocked the possibility of adopting sanctions and we in the EU circle have not had all the Member States ready to impose sanctions. When imposing sanctions, we also need to know when to stop having sanctions and what the conditions should be. That is why we need to discuss this carefully so that we do not find ourselves in an uncertain situation. However, I would like to say that Russia has responded to sanctions, as they did in relation to Ukraine, where sanctions have helped lead Russia to the negotiating table on the Minsk agreement and on the Normandy format, where dialogue is under way on several tracks. I do not think that sanctions are something to be taken lightly. This is not something that needs to be used interchangeably, because both the imposition of sanctions and the lifting of sanctions give a signal. That is why we need to think carefully about what effect we want out of it. However, I think it is necessary to take a step up the tools we have in the diplomatic toolbox and there are sanctions the next step.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026144800	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026144803	I am pleased to be convinced through dialogue when I also know that the Minister for Foreign Affairs very likely has some insights that I do not necessarily have in what is going on behind the closed doors around. But then, in relation to this pressure through the United Nations, the fact that we cannot get anything done as it is now, in the Security Council, because Russia is in the way of it, does not the Foreign Minister believe that by continuing to keep this pressure on Russia too, because they are very concerned about their image, and we can see that with their television stations, etc., we can show them a little more along these diplomatic paths too?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026144837	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026144840	As I started by saying, I don't think words can stop bombs in themselves, but they can help. And words and the exhibition of who is responsible for not getting the humanitarian aid that we do not have the necessary pause in the bombings, that we do not have to create an improved situation for the many, many citizens of Aleppo. That is why I share Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist's proposal that we should remain active in the UN. Although we do not have a seat in the Security Council, we can still be co-sponsors of resolutions, and Denmark will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026144916	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026144924	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his clear disapproval of the Turkish bombardment of Christian, Arab and Kurdish liberation forces from the SDF, as we have seen. But I have a question for the Minister. Because when we talk about Russia's role and Russia's position and Russia's ability to operate, is it not very worrying for the Foreign Minister to see the role that Turkey is now playing more and more? Well, now we are talking not only about attacks on liberation forces and thus indirect support to the Islamic State, but, of course, an agreement with Russia on the future of Syria, as we have seen. We've seen Erdogan go to Moscow, no, it was now Saint Petersburg and have conversations with Putin etc. And we have heard the rhetoric that is running and the cooperation between them. Is that not something that is deeply worrying for the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026145023	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026145026	We are probably a little bit away from the wording of the question here, namely the bloodbath in Aleppo, because I do not believe that Turkey has a direct role to play in it. But since a connection can still be found, I should like to reply. I am concerned about those countries in Syria's neighbourhood who believe that they have the right to determine the future of Syria. This applies to Turkey, to Iran too, and to Hezbollah in Lebanon, who believes that it is they who must decide the future of Syria. I believe that there is only one group that can determine the future of Syria, and it is the Syrian people, primarily through free and fair elections, who must be held under UN observation and with a guarantee that they will have both a free election campaign but also an honest implementation of the elections and counting afterwards. That's all it takes. And our efforts, wherever we try to put it through the EU, the UN or bilaterally, are to ensure that the people of Syria can be allowed to choose their own future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026145126	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026145129	In other words, when Turkey bombs liberation forces just north of Aleppo, and when Turkey enters into alliances with Russia at a time when pressure is needed on Russia, it has a direct consequence for the bloodbath in Aleppo, a direct consequence. After all, this weakens the possibility of putting pressure on Russia, which we agree should happen. That is why I believe that we cannot help but take the starting point of dealing with a NATO country. All right, we may have different views on NATO, but I know that the Minister is very enthusiastic about NATO, and so there is a core country in NATO with the second largest army that now directly relieves pressure on Russia and thus prolongs the bloodbath in Aleppo. I'm glad the Minister's worried. I would urge the Minister to express this in a number of contexts as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026145214	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026145217	This concern has been expressed in the context of the European Union in a dialogue with the Turkish Minister for European Affairs; it has been expressed directly at my recent meeting with the Turkish Foreign Minister in Ankara; and I will continue to express it. Because I think it is a problem when you go in that way and create an internal conflict and struggle in the coalition. I think it's worrying if these sectarian attacks happen. It is in relation to Kurds, and it is also in relation to Shiamuslims and to Sunni Muslims around, where we see that the struggles there are are beginning to get a glimpse of having an ethnic background. This is a problem, and we in Denmark are doing what we can to combat it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026145256	Thank you. Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026145305	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten, we are in complete agreement with the Foreign Minister that Russia is acting completely unacceptable, in concrete terms, in Aleppo, but one could also mention Ukraine, Crimea and Syria in general. Does the Foreign Minister agree that we should not increase dependence on Russian gas in Europe, and does the Foreign Minister therefore reject the Russian gas pipeline Nord Stream 2 through Danish territory?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026145339	The minister. I think we may be at the edge of the question, but the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026145345	I have a very wide range of people every day, so I will also answer the question here. The fact is that only last week, at the European Council, Denmark asked us to have a discussion in the European Union on how we will respond to the request that might come, for permission for Nord Stream 2. Denmark has received no request, but we have a desire to have it discussed in Europe because there will be an opportunity to put a Nord Stream 2 pipeline around Danish waters and therefore without a Danish opportunity to have influence. And this link will have an effect on European energy policy and energy dependence, which extends beyond Denmark and which means something to the whole of Europe. I want a diversified energy structure. I would much more like us to have a Baltic pipeline, that is, the one that will go from Norway to Denmark to Poland, which will create a diversity of supplies and not an increased dependence on one large supplier.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026145443	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026145447	I'm glad to hear the Secretary of State brings it up. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will have to make a clear call for this to be seen here as a political choice, and a political choice that must be rejected in order to increase the dependence on Russian gas in Europe. I hope that the Secretary of State will act on that call. I noticed that there have been a number of articles in which there are also criticisms from a number of other parties, so hopefully we can find a broad common front to stand up to Nord Stream 2.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026145521	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026145524	It is the case that Denmark has signed a number of international conventions concerning the right to allow infrastructure in Danish waters. Now I know the Enhedslisten as a party that believes that once international conventions have been signed, international conventions must be respected. That is why I would be surprised if Enhedslisten were the first party to recommend, like openly, that we break the conventions we have signed, including conventions on the authorisation of infrastructure, if they are environmentally sound. I am just saying this to show that this is a problem that has many aspects, and it is therefore important, in my view, that it is raised at European level to a joint resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026145602	Thank you, Minister. And with the raised index finger we return to Aleppo and give the floor to the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026145615	Thank you. I'll be brief. Thank you for a very good debate. Thank you to all the rapporteurs, and thank you to the Minister for speaking clearly, loudly and clearly here today, when together we send a message, in particular to Putin and Assad, the war criminals, that what they are doing is totally unacceptable. We care about the Syrian civilians, we will do everything we can to protect them. But what is important today, I think, is that we have a common proposal for adoption, which is extremely important, and now that proposal for adoption needs to be dealt with. And we also come up with some concrete initiatives on how to press the man who has the key to resolving the Syrian conflict, and that is Putin. He also has the key to protecting Syrian civilians. He's the one who needs to be focused on, and he's the one who needs to be pushed so that you can reduce the insanity in Syria. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026145720	Thank you to the rapporteur and that concludes the item. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Thursday 27 October 2016. Then we'll have to interrupt the sitting for a few minutes, because we can't start until exactly 8:00. 15. We were just about to hit at 9:00. 15.00, but we did not. We'll postpone the meeting for a few minutes until 8:00. 15.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150003	It is 3:00 p.m. and so we can resume the sitting. The first question is Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150014	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150018	Thank you, President. The question is as follows: just after last year's elections, the Minister promised to make a calculation of the overall cost of refugees and foreigners, and the question now is: has such a calculation been made?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150035	Thank you. It is true that I made a promise that we would do these calculations. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party asked the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing on 23 March this year at Question No. 447, how far the government was compared to calculating the cost of immigration. And I assume that the question is a follow-up to this. I replied at the time that the government was carrying out an analysis and that it was the assessment that the result would be available by the first quarter of 2017. The analysis undertaken also includes the refugee and alien area, which the questioner is asking about here, and we continue to expect the results to be available in the first quarter of next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150130	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150132	Thank you. I'm glad. What I want to spend my time on is that different calculations have now been made, among other things. by the Minister himself. And in January 2016, the Minister was out to say that in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 it would cost a total of 48 billion. kr., approx. 11 billion kr. per year, in the area of refugees. And the Rockwool Foundation has been out saying it costs about 16.6 billion. kr. for non-western immigration. And what I find problematic when we discuss these things is that there are a lot of costs that so falter into the blue without really making a total calculation of the cost of the area. And we all need to know that because it is always good to know what your money is going to do. And we have been warning against this massive expenditure on refugees and immigrants for many years now, and it turns out that our warnings have proved to be true.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150246	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150247	But it is true that it is very relevant to get an overview of what total expenditure is. And the reason why it takes so long to figure this out here is that the inventory does not only cover the area of refugees and foreigners, but that it is, of course, a reflection of the importance of immigration to Denmark for the overall public finances. It thus covers all the major items of revenue and expenditure which can be individualised, including, inter alia: income transfers, public service and taxes. And it's a lot of technical work to go into these big areas and then individualize it and then attribute it to whether it's a fugitive, a foreigner or whatever.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150339	Thank you. Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150341	What my question is about now is how thorough this study is, what areas are going to be involved, and how are the areas individualised if the Minister could answer that question?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150403	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150404	What we are working on is a new and detailed inventory which, of course, takes longer than the way we have done it so far. The aim is to develop a basis for calculation based on register data which can be much more detailed than in the past, so that we can monitor the contribution of population groups to public revenue and public expenditure trends now and in the future. That's why it takes that time, and that's why it can be finished in the first quarter of next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150438	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150440	I'm glad. I don't have any more questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150445	Thank you. The next question is for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and that is by Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150447	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150505	Thank you. On the basis of the Foreign Minister's statement to Politiken on 6 October 2016 that it is not legally possible to find the basis for full participation in Europol, can the Minister explain whether he believes that other possible links with Europol will be satisfactory for Danish police work?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150526	Like others, I have taken note of the Commission's opinion on Denmark's ability to remain in Europol. This merely confirms what the Commission has said since the vote last year, namely that the Danes made a choice. And what the majority of the Danes chose was that Denmark should be outside Europol and that we cannot therefore participate fully in the cooperation in the same way as if we had agreed to be part of the cooperation. The result, according to the Commission, means that we have written off the possibility of full cooperation in Europol in all bodies on an equal footing with those who are members. Having said that, I would like to stress that the government is still working to get as good an agreement as possible. But it will therefore be an agreement which will be on a different basis and on a lower basis than full and full participation in Europol.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150618	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150620	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The reason why I am asking the question and referring to this article in Politiken on 6 October is that this article refers to the possibility of working within a limited special agreement. In the same article there is also a quote from the European rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, who says that they have always said that what is essential and essential to them is access to the register and that he will think that if you have access to the register, it is less important whether the National Police Commissioner or others can go to meetings in Brussels. Following his first reply, can the Minister for Foreign Affairs explain what the significance would be if the Commissioner for Police, or anyone else from the police, were not to be able to attend meetings in Brussels?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150704	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150705	What worries me isn't whether the National Police Commissioner gets a trip more or less. What worries me is whether the Danish police cannot be involved in planned coordinated actions with euro countries in Europol; it is whether Denmark cannot be involved in the renewed fight against terrorism that Europol is about to have in the future; and it is whether the Danish police cannot help with ideas and proposals for the re-development of Europol. After all, these are all the points that lie next to the access to the register that we could have obtained with full membership and which we now have to fight on a case-by-case basis to see how good an agreement we can get.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150744	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150746	Again, thank you to the Minister. I think it would in fact be wrong to conclude on the basis of the Minister's reply. In fact, I think he has already said a little, but it is only to confirm that this so-called limited special agreement will actually mean that, firstly, Denmark is not fully involved in Europol and, secondly, Denmark will be very, very limited in its ability to participate in the joint fight against crime across borders. And thus the legal certainty and security of the Danes are also significantly reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150821	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150824	It has a consequence when you vote, whether you vote yes or no, and the majority of the Danes voted no last year. It now has a consequence, and the consequence is that our cooperation with Europol will not be as good as if we had been fully involved. How well cooperation can be, I cannot quite answer yet, because we are still negotiating away, and our task as a government for Denmark is to find the best possible agreement that might be possible for Denmark. Then we must look at what this presents us with challenges. I foresee that we will have an agreement that is worse than if we had had a full and full membership of Europol.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150900	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen has an extra round.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150904	I don't have anything to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150906	Thank you. That concludes the question. The next question is to the Minister for Culture by Mr. Morten Marinus, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150919	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150921	Thank you. What does the Minister hope that the public service committee's report contains of recommendations, which topics will the Minister himself give priority to, and will the Minister himself make proposals or proposals for negotiations by 2018 for the forthcoming media negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150942	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026150944	The answer to the last one is yes. However, we must now look first and foremost at the public service committee's report, which will be published on 7 November, and the committee must, according to the terms of reference, provide a basis for reflection on the role of the public service media in the coming years, establish scenarios for what Danish public service can be in the future, which will become more individualised and fragmented and with enormous competition from abroad, which will steal our advertising crowns, etc. I hope that the committee's report will make a qualified contribution to the debate on the role of the public service media in the future, and I am pleased that the public service committee is already holding a conference on 16 November, the week after, in which the report will be discussed with the rapporteurs of the parties behind the media agreement and key media stakeholders. I think this is very important, because although the current media agreement does not expire until 2018, it is not too early to discuss the future of the media. That is why it is quite appropriate that Mr. Morten Marinus is asking the question, and I can say yes to the fact that in the coming winter I will come up with a proposal from the government as to what we are going to propose will be the agenda for the discussions we are going to have on the media of the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026151125	Sir. Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026151126	Thank you for your answer. It is, of course, also difficult to stand here and have a debate on a report from the public service committee which we do not yet know. However, we know a number of the challenges that are precisely in this area, namely the public service sector. There are challenges with foreign competition, as the Minister himself mentioned, and I see several areas that it might be a good idea to get to grips with and start talking about by 2018. It could also be a different funding of the public service funds in Denmark, it could be DR's size and strength and competition in relation to the private media in Denmark. I think there are many things to address. However, I would like to ask the Minister: does the Minister believe that it is possible to get all the parties involved to start some real discussions on some of these clumps by spring 2018, for example. 2017, now that we have seen the Social Democrats' rapporteur already last year was out to announce that he saw no reason to start talking about some of these issues before reaching 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026151240	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026151241	I can fully endorse the agenda for the discussions that Mr. Morten Marinus here lays out, and which also fits very well with the presentation that Dansk Folkeparti presented the last summer, I think it was in August, and which I accepted kindly myself. I can completely approve the subject list and am also extremely aware that Danish media, representing the written press, think that Denmark's Radio is going to the newspapers in the prayers when it comes to their online service. So I am on the agenda, which is being described here, and, as I said, I will be making a presentation here this winter.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026151328	Sir. Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026151330	Thank you again. I think it is important, when we have these debates on the public service media in Denmark, that we also subsequently • when you have made an agreement, a settlement • clearly get written down what is actually agreed and what is expected of the public service companies in Denmark, including, of course, Denmark's Radio, which is the largest recipient of the licence crowns. What is the Minister's view that the DR has now been out to say that they will save at regional stations when it is actually stated in the agreement that they should be freed from savings, in other words in relation to the latest media settlement?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026151406	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026151407	I understand that Denmark's Radio has an ambition to devote more productions to cities outside Copenhagen, and I warmly support that. I will not comment on it, as Mr. Morten Marinus here mentions, about the local stations. I'd rather not comment on that without being prepared for it. But I did not get an initial comment on what Mr. Mogens Jensen has said about the willingness to look at Denmark's Radio. And my advice to the blue parties, if I may say so, is that we are getting ready for a debate. It will then be in the first place with media reconciliation parties, and if it does not succeed, it will enter the next election campaign. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026151507	Sir. Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026151509	It's so exciting when that campaign comes. However, as I have said, there are challenges, and we have also seen, among other things, that as regards the financing part, that is to say the licence part, cases are running around Europe as to whether the means of obtaining licences are legal. Do you think that the public service committee takes such recommendations into its report on the financing of the future, or is it something that politicians should just start discussing from scratch? We could do that. But is this part of the public service committee's mandate and report?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026151546	Sir. Morten Marinus must remember that we do not use direct indictments in the Assembly Hall. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026151551	I have no idea, and I think I would advise against the public service committee going into the question of whether public service should be tax-financed or licensed. I guess I'd stay a long way from that if I were the public service committee chairman. But it will turn out on November 7th. I think we politicians will have to discuss the other, and I am probably a little conservative in the way we finance Denmark's Radio. I am certainly not ready to jump into tax funding, although it would be convenient for some, but I agree with the Danish People's Party and with the Danish Media that you can take a few jumps down when it comes to the licence money spent on Danish Radio.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026151647	Thank you, Minister. That concludes the question. The next question is to the Minister for Transport and Building by Mr. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026151658	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026151701	Thank you. I would like to read out the question: will the Minister work to ensure that there is provision for a service route at motorway exits to major industrial ports such as Korsør Harbour, so that traffic is routed through the main roads to modular trains and does not burden the smaller access roads, which Korsør Harbour has previously refused from the Road Directorate on the basis of the Law on Public Roads?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026151724	I give the floor to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026151726	Thank you for the question. Let me start by saying that the issue of signage is indeed a complex one, why an in-depth analysis of the rules is probably best suited to a written answer, because there are really many factors to take into account. However, there is already already the possibility of a service route to ports at motorway exits. You can see that in several places on the motorway network. There are signs to the container port, ferry and port. This is true, for example. exit 71 on the South Jutland motorway in a southern direction where signs to the Port of Aabenraa are displayed. I have checked with the Road Directorate on the specific case concerning Korsør Harbour. The Road Directorate has indicated that it was not quite allowed to sign port at exit 42. The reason for the Vejdirektoratet's decision was that there is only one exit from the motorway to Korsør. If a motorway exit is to be parted with the sign "Haven', there are two conditions in relation to the rules applicable today that must be fulfilled. Firstly, there must be more exits from a motorway to the same city, so that you can be in doubt about which one to choose. Secondly, there must be agreement between the local municipality and the Road Directorate that it is appropriate to direct traffic to the port via one of these exits. This is true, for example. Aabenraa, where there are both exits 70, 71 and 72. As mentioned above, there is only one exit to Korsør, and there is therefore no risk that you will leave at the wrong exit if you are going to Korsør Harbour. In conclusion, in relation to the specific case of Korsør Harbour, I can call for discussion with the municipality of Slagelse in order to improve the signage on the municipal road network to Korsør Harbour.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026151921	Sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026151923	Now it is the case that there are actually three possibilities to get into Korsør. One is called 43 and is in Halsskov, and that is actually where the problem lies, in that if some of the customers to Korsør Harbour get that exit, then they drive over Halsskov, which is an old town, and then they actually burden some pretty small roads. Our customers usually do that only once, because they can see how much trouble it is. And we are also doing everything we can to tell them about the primary path they can use. That is why the initiative was taken at the time to seek to set them up here. I believe that, when it is only a question of whether it should be called either M 9 or M 11 container port or ferry, perhaps someone else could be invented, which mainly allowed them to be obtained.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152014	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152015	If that is the case, because you are being wild here and as such come to another exit, then I think that is something I would like to look at. 'Cause I think that's just something you can bring in. You have to remember that the municipality has to be involved. I'd like to look at it because it could be one or the other. But if there are two that, like traditional and common, are used to get down to the harbor, then I think it's right for us to try to look at how to do this. So I'll talk to Vejdirektoratet about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152044	Sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152046	This sounds very positive, because it is in everyone's interest to use the roads that are the main ones, so you are free from having heavy vehicles through, for example, residential neighbourhoods and other areas. And so it has just come to light sometimes that people are simply wrong, especially if they do not know the area. And that's the only reason we thought it could be a solution. However, this requires us to have signs which then show more than to container ports and ferry ports, and that is why we seem to have been denied it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152122	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152123	So there is no problem in the large ports. The only question is, where is it supposed to be? But I have said that I would like to look at it, and we cannot get it any closer today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152133	Sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152137	We wait and then we ignore this refusal and hope it gets its way on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152143	Thank you. That concludes the question. The next question is for the Minister for Business and Growth, and this is by Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152201	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152204	Thank you. The question is as follows: What thoughts does the Minister have about the sale of the refinery and the gas terminal at the Port of Fredericia to the newly founded Danish Oil Company as described in the local newspaper Fredericia on 11 October?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152218	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152219	Thank you for the question. First of all, let me stress that it is of course very important for the government to create and maintain Danish jobs, just as I know that the Danish People's Party is concerned. I therefore also think it is fundamentally positive that a major Danish company should continue in this way under Danish auspices, and I do not necessarily share the concern expressed about the sale of the refinery in Fredericia. As I understand the case on the basis of information in the local newspaper Fredericia, there are different aspects to relate to. They concern both competitive and environmental aspects as well as issues of bankruptcy risk. As far as bankruptcy and environmental aspects are concerned, I must of course refer to the Minister for Justice and the Minister for the Environment and Food respectively. I also know that a question has been put to the Minister for the Environment and Food later today. However, I am in a position to say something about the competition aspects, and I can tell you that under the competition rules there are clear rules on when a merger should be notified to the Competition and Consumer Authority or the European Commission respectively. A notificationable merger cannot be carried out without the approval of the competition authorities. The merger control rules are based on the size of the turnover of the merged parties. Dansk Oilselskabet ApS's Danish lawyer informed the Danish Competition and Consumer Authority that the parties did not meet the requirements for notification either in Denmark or to the European Commission regarding the sale mentioned. This is because the turnover of the merging parties, according to the information provided by the Board, does not exceed the relevant notification thresholds to the Competition and Consumer Authority or the European Commission. Therefore, according to competition rules, the sale of the refinery and the gas terminal to the Danish Oil Company does not lead to regulatory treatment at this stage. Therefore, it is also not correct when it appears in the local newspaper Fredericia that the Competition and Consumer Authority must approve the sale. The Competition Council and the Competition and Consumer Authority are independent authorities in all tasks relating to the Competition Act, including merger control. That is why I do not have the opportunity to go into such specific cases either.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152421	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152423	It is a pity that the Minister cannot do so. After all, where Shell's refinery is located today, there is DONG or the State-owned part to ensure the security of supply of oil with both ship-and pipeline. That is why it is a little worrying when Shell today maintains DONG's share on the whole refinery site. I would therefore perhaps also like to ask the Minister whether he can guarantee that the security of supply and the continued maintenance of the refinery site and the gas terminal at the Port of Fredericia can be maintained if the Danish Oil Company closes and goes bankrupt.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152517	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152519	I would very much like to reply to everything that concerns the government, but I also have respect for the fact that there are different kinds of tasks, and so far, unfortunately, it is not the case that I decide everything in the government. I work for that on a daily basis. I therefore ask that this question be put to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, because I do not have that responsibility and therefore will not speak on it either. It is not out of lack of desire and will, it is simply because I do not have the knowledge that is being asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152544	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152546	Well, we'll have to take that up with another minister. But I would like to know how the Minister sees the buyer as a relatively newly created company, which has acquired a new director and which is a sub-company to another company that has a slightly weakened reputation with a lot of bankruptcies and forced resolution behind it. In addition, according to the newspaper, the capital injection has increased from DKK 50,000. to 10 million kr. A few days before the purchase of the Shell refinery. Now, I know that the Minister is saying that the Competition Authority should not get involved, but does the Minister think that it should perhaps be a different authority from the Competition Authority to look at whether this is being done in a sound and reassuring way when we are dealing with such a high-risk company?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152646	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152647	Thank you. I think that if I am to have the opportunity to reply fully and also be better informed than I have been reading the local newspaper in Fredericia, then I would like to reply in writing to that question. For there are, of course, a large number of concerns expressed in relation to that sale. This is not something that I, as a minister, can take action on, but I would like to return in writing to the concerns expressed and also to some of the information that has appeared in the local newspaper Fredericia.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152723	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152726	Thank you. I will look forward to having some answers in writing on the concerns that exist, so I thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152733	Thank you. The next question is for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, and it is by Mrs Dorthe Ullemose, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152744	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152751	What does the Minister intend to do in order to prevent situations which we know from, for example? Children's center Tullebølle in Langeland Municipality with various forms of sexual assault, violence against staff and fire executions, are being stopped?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152807	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026152808	I understand the question as to how I will ensure that the conditions mentioned in the question at the Children's Centre Tullebølle are stopped, and not how I will avoid them being stopped, as the question was formulated. It is important for me to stress at the outset that there is zero tolerance in the Danish asylum centres for harassment, violence and threats. This applies both to residents and, of course, to the staff of the centres. This also applies, of course, at the children's center in Tullebølle on Langeland. It is clear from the operator contracts that the accommodation operators must inform the Foreigners' Board of this if there is violence, vandalism threats or crime or any other form of misbehaviour that is committed at or in connection with the asylum centre. The Foreigners' Board is therefore continuously in dialogue with all accommodation operators around the country, including Langeland Municipality, which operates the Children's Centre Tullebølle. As you know, there have been a number of serious incidents over a long period of time at that particular centre. This concerns, among other things: on violence between residents, threats and violence against staff, vandalism and arson, but also other unacceptable behaviour. In addition, in the view of the Foreigners' Authority, there has not been sufficient management focus and a sufficiently firm framework for the residents. On Friday 21 October, last Friday, the Foreign Affairs Agency also received a briefing from the Municipality of Langeland concerning a suspicion of two cases of sexual violation of the residents committed by two former employees. Of course, these matters have been reported to the police. On the basis of an overall assessment, the National Council for Foreigners and the Municipality of Langeland have therefore decided that the Children's Centre Tullebølle should close, so that a proper framework can be restored for the children. This means that during this week the current 40 residents at the centre will be transferred to other children's centres. Then I can say that, in connection with the closure here and following on from it, the Municipality of Langeland has also decided that for a period of time there will be stricter supervision of the operation of the children's centres, which are precisely under the auspices of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026153031	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Dorthe Ullemose, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026153034	I would like to ask the Minister to sign off on the closure of the asylum centre in Tullebølle, but I would also like to supplement what you yourself say and tell me a little about what I have been told by employees over the summer holidays. They say, and it is also in letters to the management: the boys set their own agenda: a hue, yelling and screaming, reviling against the staff, mocking, derogatory attitude, unrest. Tables and chairs are overturned, fixtures and waste are thrown around, wires are cut, and they refuse to participate in the daily cleaning. There are clear signs and evidence of alcohol and drugs daily. The employees tell me that they live in anxiety and that they feel in danger. Some have got their fists on their faces, kicks in their stomachs, and they regularly receive threats. The employees demand consistency and lack management to enforce law and order. I've also been contacted by neighbors and it has also been put on TV 2 Funen who feels insecure and no longer dare to have their grandchildren visit me. Neighbors and locals have experienced severe violence, where young asylum seekers run around in private gardens with iron chains and swing around to the right and left. This summer we witnessed asylum seekers who were reported for rape at the Langelands Festival. A few days ago, six asylum seekers were bemoaning and harassing young girls in just 13 years of age in Svendborg's swimming pool. Young people can be away for several days without any consequence, and employees have no sanction options. So I hope the Minister can hear that there is a need for tightening up. Does the Minister believe that the problem has been solved by closing the asylum centre in Tullebølle when the same management operates 15-16 other asylum centres? What are the consequences for young people who have this unacceptable behaviour?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026153220	Mrs Dorthe Ullemose should remember that there is no direct indictment in the Chamber when speaking to a minister or to colleagues. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026153229	Thank you. We'll manage that, but I'm aware that you have to keep your form. I'll have to try that too. I just think that the long series of examples of completely wrong behavior that were just read out here clearly shows why it is important to close the Children's Centre Tullebølle. The boys are now being moved to other centres, and then I can say that in the context of the negotiations on a 2025 plan, we have put a series of proposals on the table to tighten up the responsibility of management at a children's centre. There must, for example, be one. We must be able to make house arrangements, we must be able to draw benefits, and other sanctions must also be introduced. So I can just have a hope that the Danish People's Party will help implement it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026153317	Mrs. Dorthe Ullemose, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026153320	We think that sounds really good. But what does the Minister think of consequences when young people go out and do vandalism or command young girls, or if you can see in their room that there are drugs and alcohol or a stolen cell phone? What does the Minister think it is for some sanctions and consequences that it should have for these young people whom it does not have?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026153343	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026153345	That is precisely what we have put forward a series of proposals on. It is among other things that staff should be allowed to search the rooms, for they have not had that so far. It is also that they should be allowed to use force where necessary, and it is at all events that sanctions should be imposed. It may also be that you draw from the financial benefits that you receive as a young person at such a centre. So that's a whole series of suggestions. They have now been put forward, and I hope that the Danish People's Party will welcome them, and it is also my impression that you are doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026153422	Dorthe Ullemose, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026153425	Now the Minister is talking about the use of force. It is true that if a young person is not a danger to himself or to others, then the staff must not use force, or is it different for the staff of asylum centres than it is in social-educational places? Because there you can't just grab a kid who's standing in the door if the staff wants to search a room. Then the young person must be a danger to himself or to others. Is it different requirements or other powers that staff are allowed to have in relation to the use of force in these centres than they have in social education establishments?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026153455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026153458	In fact, as it is today, it is not possible at these centres at all. Now it is the case that you get the same opportunities as you have in the institutions where other young people with behavioral behavior are staying.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026153513	Thank you. That concludes the question. The next question is for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing by Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026153522	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026153526	The question is: how will the Minister ensure that Denmark does not go begging in the European Commission to be allowed to extend border controls, but that a permanent border control is introduced instead, based on what Denmark wants to secure its own borders and sovereignty?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026153540	I'm sorry, but that question doesn't actually correspond to this. Yeah, that's right. I'd just come up with another question. Sorry to interrupt. I call the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026153552	Yeah, I wish it were that we were further ahead in the questions, but we're not. It's coming. The establishment of permanent border controls will, in practice, mean that Denmark is getting out of Schengen and also of the Nordic passport union, and I do not think we have any interest in that. This will only make it more difficult for the many Danes who depend on being able to travel back and forth across the border every day. It will also hamper the cooperation that we benefit from in the field of police and criminal law in relation to visa matters. For example: Danish police will lose the opportunity to see whether a foreigner has a visa ban in a Schengen country, which may have an impact on whether the alien should be allowed to enter Denmark at all. Having said that, I would like to stress that I fully share the wish of the Danish People's Party to limit the number of illegal immigrants and asylum seekers coming to Denmark. That's one of them. This is why, together, we have carried out significant reinforcements in the field of foreigners. That is also why we have proposed to introduce an emergency brake into the Aliens Act, which will allow asylum seekers to be refused on entry, that is. immediately on the border if a crisis situation arises which puts the Danish border under pressure. Let me also make it clear that I agree with the Danish People's Party that the current temporary border controls should be extended. That is also why, together with my colleagues from Norway, Sweden, Germany and Austria last week, I made it clear to the European Commission that as long as the external borders of the European Union are not under control, we must be able to control who crosses the Danish border. I would also like to stress, as we did in the letter, that a number of the terrorist attacks we have seen around Europe are of course of concern that terrorists will try to exploit the gaps in external border controls. I am therefore very pleased that yesterday I was able to announce that the Commission is now also recommending to the Council that temporary border controls be maintained for at least the next three months.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026153812	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026153813	In the Danish People's Party, we simply do not think that it is any use that every time Denmark has to go begging the European Commission to have border controls extended. It must, of course, be made permanent, and we think that the Minister should work on that. It is a good thing that we have had temporary border controls, and it is good that we have had it extended, but that is simply not enough. Schengen doesn't work. We need to change Schengen if we are to stay in Schengen so that the external border is actually guarded, but we also have the opportunity to create permanent border controls within the European Union. It is simply one of the crucial things for a sovereign state that you can ensure that you have control over who enters your country, and it is of course both criminals and asylum seekers. A sovereign state must be able to control its own population composition, and that is why we must be permanent on the border. That is why we must also have the opportunity to do what we have proposed many times: immediate rejection and immediate asylum treatment on the border. Thus we avoid the cases of a large number of people coming in who have their cases dealt with in Denmark and who, for a large number of reasons, cannot be sent back again, and it has been a great accident for a long time. We have the situation at the moment that people are flowing into Europe; the situation is out of control in Italy, where Africans are pouring in, and those people will probably move up against some of the countries where they know it is quite pleasant to live. That is why it is not enough for us to have temporary border controls, although we are pleased about that. You have to start working on a permanent border control. The question is again: when will the Minister start working for us to have permanent border controls?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154022	In any case, it can be said so simply that if we just now introduced a permanent border control, we would get out of Schengen. I am not now hearing Marie Krarup say that we have to get out of Schengen, but that we have to change Schengen, and that is not something we are just doing alone. So it also requires the Danish People's Party to come up with a proposal on how to change Schengen cooperation and to look at what lies in it, that cooperation should change. In other words, how should we tackle this, what do we do in relation to other European colleagues? For I certainly do not hear today that the Danish People's Party will withdraw from Schengen because it will cause some very unintended side effects, for example. the police cooperation that is so important to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154108	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154109	The Danish People's Party would really like to work together to deport criminals, to help other states find international criminal networks, terrorists, illegal asylum seekers, illegal immigrants, etc. So we want cooperation, but that cooperation must not rule out the possibility of permanent border controls. So what we want is for us to have a permanent border control and then at the same time have Schengen changed so that we can have it for the future, forever, because that is what we must have when we are a sovereign state.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154148	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154149	Well, it may be, but then the Danish People's Party must necessarily also flesh out what it is you want. There is no point simply saying that this is the way it is (the Minister snaps his fingers) It is rather the same as with the whole discussion about Europol. So, I assume that the Danish People's Party still wants us to be a member of Europol, but because of the fact that we now voted, as we did in the past, we are now getting out of Europol. So it's no use not looking coherently at this and I actually think that the Danish People's Party owes us all a lot to do and just say that this is what it's supposed to look like. You must also help to point the way there. Otherwise, it will be a kind of barren form of politics that you pursue.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154230	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154231	The Danish People's Party has put forward many concrete proposals on how to do this, including within Europol. We have had concrete suggestions that an agreement can be reached, and that can be done when it can be done with a large number of other countries. After all, it is a question of the negotiators sitting in it showing the will to get it through, and in the same way it is in the Schengen area. We have plenty of concrete proposals. It must be put into practice. So it is not we who can do it, because we are not sitting in ministerial positions. So we just have to ask the ministers to start the task which I think the Minister himself thinks is important: that we should be able to control who comes into our country, and we must of course be able to control it on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154318	I fully share the vision that we need to control who is coming to Denmark, and as long as external borders are not under control, we need border controls in Denmark. But what I am just advocating is that we hear a little too many times that the Danish People's Party says this is how it should be, but you do not really work with it, and then the answer here today is that flexibility must be exercised by the negotiators. Yes! There is, but you have to work on that, and the Danish People's Party will also have to work on that. You also have to put into practice what you want with Schengen cooperation, and not just say: well, we need passport control, then you have to find out. It is simply pointless.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154357	Thank you. That concludes the question. The next question is also for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, and that is by Mr. Carsten Kudsk, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154405	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154408	Thank you, Madam President. I'm gonna read the question. Does the Minister consider that it is compatible with Denmark's view of children that children must apparently accept, under international conventions, that the child, here the bride, can live with his adult older man, since the marriage has been concluded abroad, despite the fact that the minister, back in February, separated these couples from the asylum centres?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154426	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154428	As you know, I firmly believe that minors for asylum must be accommodated separately from their spouse or marriage mates in the asylum centres. That is also why, on 10 February this year, I gave an accommodation instruction to the Foreigners' Board, which means that underage spouses and couples as the absolute starting point must be accommodated separately at asylum centres. But as I also mentioned, among other things. In the course of the consultation held on 15 March, which is also mentioned in a reply to the Folketing, an exception could be made in special cases. This is, of course, provided that neither party is under 15 years of age. However, as an example of where an exception is to be made, mention can be made of cases where a couple have been married in Denmark by so-called royal letter, which means that they have then been granted exemption from normal marriage conditions. This is something that Danish young people can have. In such cases, we must live together in the asylum centres, and there is, in fact, one example of this. The exception is mainly due to the fact that the Foreigners' Board has to administer the accommodation arrangements completely in accordance with the obligations that we now have. However, I would like to emphasise that the situation and interest of minors must always be at the heart of the assessment that is being made, and that is the way it should be. However, I would like to say that I stand by the fact that it is my hero, quite clear, that, as a minor, you should not live with your spouse or partner in an asylum centre.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154616	Sir. Carsten Kudsk.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154618	What we are hearing is that some conventions are being referred to immediately, and that is what has been announced. What I am thinking of is that when the minister makes this decision, is it based on the children's convention, that is to say, on whether it is the child's best interests that come first? What I am thinking of is that when the Minister makes these statements, it is in relation to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, or what is the basis on which the Minister thinks a decision can be taken? It is being heard that there are some conventions that point out some problems with this, but I believe that the Children's Convention clearly says what opportunities there are.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154651	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154652	I can say that it is, of course, broad in relation to the commitments we have. But again, there is no doubt that I do not want a minor to live with a spouse in an asylum centre, but it is clear that if, for example, you are living with a spouse in an asylum centre. has been married by Royal Letter in Denmark, just as Danish youths can become, so we cannot prevent one from living together, because then the state of Denmark has agreed to this marriage, and then it can be one of the cases where one can stay together.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154725	Sir. Carsten Kudsk.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154726	There are, for example: was someone who was suicidal or other things, and has any action been taken with regard to these people who have been involved? What I am thinking of in relation to the decision that has been taken is whether or not we have done something in relation to some judicial decision, that is to say, where we have said that we now have something that confirms it in relation to the conventions, namely how this should be interpreted in relation to the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154751	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154752	Now my position is known, and that is why I think I can say calmly that all the corners in this area are being looked for. It is very important to me that we are not forced as a young person to live with someone who is over 18, even if we are married in our country. There is a lot of talk with them here, and there is a lot of supervision of the young people, which is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154822	Thank you. Then there is a fellow questioner, and that is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154826	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Minister for the answers. It is in relation to royal letters and to what the Danish law requires, if you are to get married when you are under 18 years of age. It is reasonable to ask whether the Minister has any knowledge that it has happened in practice that a royal letter has been obtained, as would be done if it were Danish young people. Did you do that when it comes to these migrants?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154857	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154859	I am aware of a case in which a royal letter has been issued. And it's not like you can just get here, and then you get married in your home country, and then you get a royal letter when you get to Denmark. That's not how it works. It is then in Denmark that you get married, and then it is. One cannot invoke a marriage concluded abroad and then just say: I have to have a royal letter, by the way, and then everything is good. It doesn't happen that way. But I know that there are a couple who have received a royal letter and have thus been married here in Denmark on an equal footing with Danish young people who were to be married.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154933	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026154935	In relation to the conventions, it may seem a bit like there are two conventions which are somewhat contradictory: the Convention on Human Rights, which, like the right to family life, requires us to oppose the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which obliges us to take care of the child's best interests and help the child, even in cases of sexual abuse and such things. Doesn't the Minister think there might be a conflict? And does the Minister have a position on which convention is the most important?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155009	We cannot say which convention is the most important. It can be said that we have obligations that we have to comply with, and we do. But I also believe that it is quite clear what my wish is and that, as a minor, you should not live with a spouse in an asylum centre.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155025	So we're back to the main questioner. It's sir. Carsten Kudsk, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155031	I want to ask the Minister something. We are now talking about these people coming to the country, and the Minister is talking about separating these children from their husbands, because we are talking about many times that some of them have been exposed to the fact that they have become pregnant. Has it been thought that it would be possible to send some kind of signal to those people that they could be prosecuted because there has been a sexual violation of a minor? Is this an action that could be made up? Would it be possible to say: then you will be accused according to Danish legal principles?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155058	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155059	Well, I can say, as I also mentioned to a questioner earlier here today, that there is a complete zero tolerance policy around our asylum centres. This means that if there is abuse, they must be reported and, of course, then they will be tried by the police afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155116	Thank you. That concludes the question. The next question is also for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, and that is by Mr. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155126	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155129	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that it is straightforward for cash benefits recipients to find accommodation with a rent of a maximum of DKK 7,000. a month in the municipality in which they live?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155142	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155144	Cash benefits should not, of course, be a permanent substitute. The ceiling on cash benefits has been introduced to ensure that work pays better, and I think it is perfectly legitimate to introduce such a rule. If you, as a social worker, find a job under normal conditions and thus earn an income from work, you do not have to look for a cheaper accommodation at all. Of course, the reduced benefits will mean that some people will have to live for a period of time for less money, and when you experience a change on your private economic front, it is also natural that you adjust your consumption, including, of course, housing consumption. That is how it is for all of us, and not just for cash benefits recipients. There are quite a lot of leases for less than DKK 7,000. a month. There are about 850,000 of them throughout the country, and even in the larger cities there are affordable housing. Outside the large cities, there is also often a shorter waiting list, which at least makes it relatively easier to find accommodation that suits your needs better. If you already live in general, you have special opportunities to find accommodation. As a general tenant, you can make use of your internal right of encouragement. It makes you come in front of external applicants in the queue for a desired accommodation. A tenant in a private rental home can use his exchange rights, and there are probably also many small homes that are exchanged between each other and also for larger homes. I cannot promise that what is being asked is straightforward for cash benefit recipients to find a cheaper apartment, but there are opportunities to adapt housing consumption to income, and it is now for the individual citizen himself to find a home corresponding to the income he has. Finally, I would like to point out that the municipality has the possibility of providing relocation aid to move from a relatively expensive dwelling to a housing with a rent that fits better into the household's economy. Furthermore, the municipality also has the possibility of granting a resident loan.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155358	Sir. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155359	Thank you for your answer. I do not think it is as simple as the Minister makes it here. We know that there is a problem with some families. They are vulnerable families that now have to move from their homes; they have children, and you know that when children are moved somewhere else, it is no longer safe surroundings. You can also see that there are many families, cash aid recipients who move outside the big cities to find cheaper accommodation, but they are moving away from work, they are moving away from finding jobs. We know, of course, that in the sparsely populated areas, in the small villages, there is a long way to go, and it will be harder to find a job. So we know it's gonna be harder. So will the Minister answer whether it is easy, for example, to find a residence in Copenhagen for less than DKK 7,000 if you have children and need a couple of children's rooms? Is it so easy, for example? to find it in Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155502	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155503	I have never said that it was easy to find an accommodation, but I have said that it is affordable to find an accommodation. And then I would like to say that there is no compulsion to live and work in the same municipality. You can find yourself a job in Copenhagen and then live outside Copenhagen. That's the way the world is, and there's plenty of people who do commute every day. I simply do not understand the position of the Social Democrats in this matter, i.e. that it is almost a purpose to keep some people out of the labour market, and this is done by providing very high benefits so that it no longer pays to work. I simply do not understand that. This is one of the places where you just have to say that the waters are completely separated in Danish politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155544	Sir. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155545	Well, I'm not going to agree with the Minister. I believe that many of the families who have gone on cash aid for many years, and also have some children, are vulnerable, and these are the ones I am trying to take care of in a completely different way, so that they do not have to be ripped out of their familiar surroundings, and so, for example, they are. do not go to another school or to the sparsely populated areas. That is precisely the point of wanting the recipients of cash benefits to work and then coming out a place where there is much longer to work and where there are fewer jobs, and then finding a job becomes more difficult for a cash help recipient. That is what we are trying to prevent.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155622	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155623	No, what the Socialists are preventing with the policy they are pursuing is that it is worthwhile to work, and that means that, in fact, some children will be put in a situation where their parents do not work and where they do not participate in the society in which they live, in the same way as everyone else and where they do not support themselves, and we know that unemployment is producing unemployment, also in relation to the next generation. So, in my opinion, this is a really bad course for the Socialists here, and I think that is a pity.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155652	Sir. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155654	I just want to say that the Minister is completely wrong. What we really want is to break the social ring, where children also end up in cash or other public support. What we mean is that you suddenly cannot live in the safe place where you live, but that you have to find another place to live, and you risk being moved far away from the familiar surroundings. So you can start over in a new municipality, and what do the municipalities say? After all, there are municipalities that are very dissatisfied with the fact that they have cash aid recipients who move into the small villages around, where there is no safety net to be provided. You then try to make it right and you remove the social legacy from those children so that they will be on their own. That's what we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155744	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155745	That, sir. Jan Johansen stands and does now, is in fact that he speaks down the Denmark that lies outside the big cities. I don't understand. I have, for example. had a safe childhood, and I've lived far away from the big cities. I have had a very safe childhood, and I can say that there are also jobs out there. Yes, it is not certain that it is just where you live it may well be that there is a little longer for work but there are indeed also many Danes who commute to do their job. So I do not understand why the Socialists want to build a system where working is not always worthwhile. It must be an independent value, however, that you can support yourself and your family.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155821	Thank you. That concludes the question. Before we move on to the next point, I should like to inform you that Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen under nr. Numbers 17 and 17 Question No 24 S 71 and No S 87 is deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. This brings us to the next question, and it is also for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, and it is by Mrs Dorthe Ullemose, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155847	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155852	Thank you. How will the Minister ensure that the unfair conditions, such as violence, sexual assaults and fire charges, are reported on, for example? Children's Centre Tullebølle, not only continues at the new centres, in case you move young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155905	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026155907	First of all, I would like to refer to my answer to the previous question by the same questioner, namely Question No 1. S 63. However, I would also like to take this opportunity to emphasise once again that there is zero tolerance for asylum seekers who cannot find a way of being properly behaved. This is true regardless of the center you live at, whether you are an adult or a minor. According to the Centre Tullebølle, the Foreigners' Board's assessment has been that there has not been a sufficient management focus and a sufficiently firm framework for the young people, and therefore it has now been decided that the centre should be closed. The decision has been made in agreement between the National Council for Foreign Affairs and the Municipality of Langeland. It is, of course, the individual asylum centres that deal with the situations where residents are experiencing problematic behaviour, and this also applies, of course, to the children's and young people's centres that we have. In general terms, it is important for me to stress that it is not just a matter of moving a minor asylum seeker if this is inappropriate, because the staff are, of course, trying first to solve the problems with the minor, and it often turns out that acute situations can be addressed at the centre where the minor already lives, and therefore without the minor having to move to another centre. However, when you choose to move a minor asylum seeker to another children's centre, it is partly because it is estimated that the person in question will have the opportunity to have more constructive running courses when moving. Then it is the case that, prior to any move, there will be a dialogue both between the centres, but which, of course, also involves the one that is now to be moved. But if you take the centre in Tullebølle, it will be closed down, as I said, and the young people who are now at the centre will be moved in the week we are in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026160110	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026160111	Well, I just don't understand what it's gonna help to move young people to another center, when it's completely the same management... the same lax management, I'm gonna take the liberty of saying... that runs these centers. After all, staff from several centres have called for a management that takes shape; they are calling for a management that is able to ensure that the unacceptable behaviour of young people has a consequence. Will the Minister look into whether the management is at all competent to carry out this task? Because it's hot air when the minister says there's a zero tolerance. That's not what you hear from the employees. You have no possibility of consistency or sanctions against young people, so what does the Minister mean by zero tolerance?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026160158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026160159	So, it's such a tiny bit strange that the question is being asked in this way, with us just 15 minutes ago discussing what sort of measures are being taken and which the Danish People's Party hopefully has to support. So it's kind of weird just to run the plate off again completely against better knowledge. I really think that is a little too bad if I may say so. Having said that, no one is saying that these young people should only be moved to centres run by the Municipality of Langeland. That is just like what the questioner is asking here. I never said anything about that. They might as well be moved to other centres, and of course we will look at management's competences. Otherwise, it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026160236	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026160237	So let us take one of those opportunities, the new measures that are then put into effect. The Minister is talking about the use of force. Let us then say that a young asylum seeker is standing in the door like this and the staff will enter and search the room to see if there is anything stolen drugs and alcohol that we have heard. What does the Minister mean by the use of force? Because you must not be allowed to move a young person if he is not a danger to yourself or to others. That is why I say about the measures that we are talking about here that they try to use employees every day, but they have no legal basis to do so. So what does the Minister mean by the use of force when you are not physically allowed to move a young person and search a room unless the young person is a danger to himself? It's not like you're just standing in a door.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026160323	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026160324	Well, listen to this: that is exactly what we are negotiating in the 2025 negotiations with the Danish People's Party. I assume that people in the Danish People's Party are also talking about these things. Of course, I do not know what is going on in the group room of the Danish People's Party, but I hope you do. And then I hope that the questioner, too, will have his say. I accept all the good and constructive suggestions that may be made. But I can say that, as it is today, one must, for example, do. Don't search the rooms. I think that in future you should have the right to do so as an employee, and that is one of the things I can hope that the Danish People's Party will support. But there is no point in standing here and criticizing such a completely seclusion when you are sitting in the middle of some negotiations, and you are doing so at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026160409	Thank you. Then it's the questioner, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026160410	I am glad to hear that the Minister is taking this seriously and that we can work together towards some good proposals. But does the Minister believe that these young people's applications for asylum, for example? Do you have to stop if you take the kids in some crime or in some act of crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026160420	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026160421	It is the case that if you commit serious crimes, it can have an impact on your asylum application.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026160431	Then the question is over. We move on, and again it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. The question is by Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026160440	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026160441	The question is: what does the Minister intend to do if the European Commission does not authorise Denmark to introduce border controls in the future, and how long does the Minister intend to ask the European Commission for permission to introduce border controls?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026160500	It remains my view that the current temporary border controls should be extended even after 12 November, and I was therefore pleased to announce yesterday that the Commission agrees with this and that we must therefore assume that we will be extending border controls at least for another three months. As I see it, the situation in which Denmark currently finds itself is not very different from that in January when the government decided to introduce temporary border controls. Denmark, therefore, together with other countries, which I have already mentioned, namely Austria, Germany, Norway and Sweden, has also argued strongly with the Commission last week that we should have extended border controls. We stressed, among other things, that a number of terrorist attacks have been carried out around Europe, and I therefore believe that this is a cause for concern that terrorists will try precisely to use the gaps in the external borders to come to Europe and carry out their atrocities. When we have border controls today, it is precisely because the external borders with Europe are not under control and because there is a risk of the accumulation of illegal immigrants in Denmark, in other words people who are prevented from travelling from Denmark to Sweden or to other Nordic countries. For me, there is no doubt that border controls have been effective and necessary, and therefore border controls have, in my view, given the authorities much better opportunity to ensure peace and order in Denmark. Then, of course, we are following the matter very closely, but so far border controls are being extended by three months.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026160642	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026160643	We in the Danish People's Party are happy that temporary border controls will be extended, but we also think that it is such a bit of a comical circus that we should continue to ask for a temporary extension instead of working purposefully towards a permanent border control. As far as the previous question is concerned, I have already explained all the concerns we have about sovereignty, population composition, the possibility of immediate expulsion and all the many migrants currently accumulated in Italy. So we have already discussed this. But there is one thing that concerns us too, and that is the effectiveness of temporary border controls. It is the case that as long as it is temporary, one cannot make fixed installations, and thus one does not have the same opportunity to have a really fine meshed net at control. There is much to suggest that there is a possibility of slipping over unseen. Now the Minister himself drew attention to terrorist attacks and terrorists who could smuggle in along with the flows of refugees or migrants from the Third World. That means that there is a great risk that we will bring terrorists and other criminals into Denmark, even if we have temporary border controls. That is why we believe that it is essential that border controls should be permanent so that they can be fixed, that proper working conditions can be created and that proper routines can be established and that controls can simply be made more effective. So my question is this: does the Minister not think that, in order to make border controls effective, it is necessary to work towards the permanentisation of the system?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026160836	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026160837	I can at least say that and I think that will be a comfort to Mrs Marie Krarup that this is not the first time I have heard the arguments from the Danish People's Party. I can also say, without revealing too much from the 2025 negotiations, that this is very well in line with the wishes and objections and demands of the Danish People's Party when we talk about the 2025 negotiations. So there is at least a lot on the line, it has to be said, in the party. That's good. But when I see border controls, I do not see that we have permanent border controls, but that we have border controls for as long as necessary, and border controls are needed now, and that is for the reasons I have already mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026160918	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026160921	I am very pleased that this is not the first time that the Minister has heard this question touched on by someone from the Danish People's Party. I can then say that it will certainly not be the last time either. Because I am quite sure that we will continue to follow up on this matter. We will do so for all the practical reasons already mentioned, but also because it is simply essential to maintain its sovereignty. If you are still a state that can control its own population composition, border controls are absolutely essential.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026160957	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026160958	I can say so much that I have both heard it before, but that I have also understood the wishes of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161003	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161005	I am very pleased about that, and I am also pleased to hear that my colleagues have raised the issue in other contexts. What I must then ask is, of course, that the Minister should carry it forward so that it can also be implemented at European level, so that it is not just Denmark that can benefit from having permanent border controls. I also believe that as a country we should be interested in other countries being given the same opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161031	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161032	As I said, I think everyone knows that there are many things I agree with the Danish People's Party, but there are also some things we do not agree on, including, of course, whether there should be permanent border controls or not. My position is that we should have border controls for as long as necessary, and that is at least now because the external borders of the European Union are not under control. There is a risk of the accumulation of refugees and migrants. There are still some not so many, but still away some unregistered refugees and migrants in Germany that we do not know where to go and when to go. And then there is this concern about whether terrorists can use the holes in the external borders to enter Europe. That is why I believe border controls are needed at the moment. But we do not agree on permanentisation, and that is the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161123	The question is over. We will continue with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. This time the question is by Mr. Carsten Kudsk, and co-questioner is Mrs Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161132	Sir. Carsten Kudsk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161133	Thank you, sir. President. I am just reading the question: What did the Minister mean by the update in Facebook in January 2016, when the Minister wrote that "It is totally unacceptable that burglars should be accommodated with their spouses at Danish asylum centres. It must be stopped immediately, and I will immediately inform the Foreign Affairs Council. When you stay in Denmark, Danish standards and rules apply, and it needs to be made very clear to asylum seekers, and when does the Minister think that "ongoing" will enter into force?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161205	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161208	I can say that I meant what it says and what the author has already read. In relation to the second part of the question, on the date of entry into force of the Directive as it was expressed, I have to reply that I believe that it has already entered into force.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161226	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161228	I know that the Minister answered the question at a later date. In relation to these violations that have taken place, in other words these child brides who are coming, has the Minister thought of having a talk or something with the Minister for Justice to send a signal to the asylum seekers who come to Denmark that they might in fact be prosecuted for a sexual offence, even if it might have happened in the country from which they come, because we in Denmark have some other rules? Let us now say that the breach in question, for example. is 14-15 years of age. Have any measures been considered in relation to the Minister's doing so, that you might be able to do some kind of prosecution in order to send a signal to the outside that it is just not okay in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161307	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161308	In any case, I would say that we do not in any way disagree that there should be no violations. In relation to the Minister of Justice, we have not had a discussion on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161327	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161328	After all, the Minister can see that it would actually be a fine signal to send out outside if there are some people, for example. plans to flee to Denmark and bring their child bride with them. Then they should be aware that then Denmark sends a signal that it is just not acceptable and that they may risk being prosecuted when they come to Denmark. So does the Minister not also believe that it will act as a deterrent to asylum seekers coming to the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161348	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161349	It can be very difficult to investigate such a case, I must say. After all, I am not a Minister of Justice or a policeman, but immediately I would like to say that it can be very, very difficult to investigate a case, for example. is back to something that has once happened in Syria. But I can only say that there is no doubt about where I am in this matter, and I hear no one at all disagree with the fact that there should of course be no abuse of minors. I do not think anyone who has that attitude can be found here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161421	Then it's the co-questioner, Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161423	Thank you for that, President. In relation to child brides, where we are talking about children under the age of 15, I have one thought example: if such a couple come here and the girl is pregnant, I would really like to hear just freely the Minister's attitude to it and how we handle it. For the Danish law also states that if the marriage has been legally concluded in the country from which the persons concerned come, then it must be accepted, also in Denmark. What is the Minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161501	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161502	Well, I do not entirely agree with the latter, as the questioner says. But I can say that if you come here as a pregnant woman and for example... As a very young person, I can promise that we will take good care of the women involved. And we give them all the help and support they need at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161523	The enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161524	The Minister for Social Affairs has said and I am not fully aware of how far the process is going to have to come to a new bill that you actually have to be over 18 years of age in order to be able to marry. That is something I have read in an article, so of course I cannot keep the Minister of Integration up to it. But if that is true, will it have retroactive effect in relation to the couples who live together in asylum centres and who are under 18 years of age?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161553	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161554	Now it is quite practical that you do not live in an asylum centre for such a long time, so without being aware of when the Minister of Social Affairs is putting forward his bill, I would actually think that the people who now live in an asylum centre, at least for the most part, will be away from the asylum centre once the law has been passed, if that is what is being asked. But, by the way, I think it would be good if the questioner would try to raise it with the Minister for Social Affairs, because it is her legislation. It is not because it is uninteresting, but because the right thing is in the area of the Ministry of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161634	Then back to the main questioner, sir. Carsten Kudsk, for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161638	Thank you, sir. President. The Minister said that there was no possibility of conducting an investigation, but can we agree that if a 15-year-old girl comes with a little girl in her hand, there has been a sexual offence, because then she has been pregnant. What I am thinking of is: in such a case, will the Minister be able to say that the man should be prosecuted for having committed a sexual offence against a minor?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161700	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161701	So I cannot stand here today and decide exactly how this is going to happen, even because it is not in my area at all. But what I can just say is that when it comes to children who come to Denmark, we take care of the best interests of the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161718	The question is closed. We shall continue with questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, this time from Mr. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161726	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161729	Thank you. I will read out the question: when does the Minister think that cash benefit recipients in Denmark should have understood that they should have looked for a cheaper accommodation?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161743	In fact, if I am to be quite honest, I think there has been plenty of time to look for a cheaper accommodation for those who live too expensively. For the process of changing the ceiling on cash benefits has lasted for at least a year and a half. Already during the election campaign in spring 2015, the Left made it clear that if the elections were won, the ceiling on social benefits for cash benefits would be reinstated after the elections, because we believe that working should be worthwhile. It is also clear from the government base that a two-stage job reform would take place, the first phase in autumn 2015, which would introduce a ceiling on cash benefits, which would set a ceiling on the amount to be received from the public sector. The ceiling should cover most of the public benefits received as a cash benefit recipient. In November 2015, the government then concluded the agreement for a cash assistance system where it pays off to work, job reform phase 1, with the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party. And as early as the beginning of December 2015, the bill was then consulted. The proposal was tabled in February 2016 and adopted in March with effect from 1 October 2016, i.e. six months after its adoption. In addition, there has been a heated debate, it has to be said, in the media about this particular bill, so it would not seem to me that it was entirely surprising to someone as a cash aid recipient that the cash benefits were cut. I would also like to stress that it is therefore the responsibility of the individual citizen to settle according to his income. It is not the responsibility of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161940	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026161941	I remember that at one point the municipalities themselves were not in control of how and how this legislation was designed so that they could advise their cash benefits recipients to find themselves a new home. The Minister then believes that when they see the Left Party programme, the recipients of cash aid should actually start looking for another accommodation. Surely that cannot be demanded of people who are temporarily outside the labour market and may have other problems than just missing a job. The Minister can't be serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162020	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162022	Well, it may be, it's so unknown a phenomenon to sir. Jan Johansen, that what you go to the polls and what you say in an election campaign is actually what you want to do. I'll leave that unsaid. However, this cannot be taken as a surprise because it has been heatedly debated, even, it has to be said, with Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Jan Johansen's help.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162041	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162042	I would now like to say to the Minister that even the municipalities did not have an overview of who it was, what they had to pay and who it was that was going down in cash benefits. After all, Copenhagen is one of the places where there is the most expensive rent, and we know that if people are going to find themselves somewhere else to live, it has to be in rural areas, so I would like to ask the Minister: once again, does the Minister think it is socially right to move people from Copenhagen to rural areas on the basis that they have a much less income to pay rent, so that in some way people are actually thrown out of Copenhagen, and then they can move other places where there are cheaper homes, in villages, in rural areas or where it can be?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162133	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162134	Well, it's so weird to hear sir. Jan Johansen here today, because it's as if Mr. Jan Johansen doesn't even think that these people are going to work. That's what this is all about. It's about getting to work so you can support yourself and yours. That's what the social security ceiling is all about. It's not about moving out of Copenhagen. It is about finding a job, and then it may be that you have to move away from Copenhagen, also to find that job. Let me just remind you once more that not all Danes live and work in exactly the same municipality. People commute in today's Denmark, sir. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162213	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162214	I fully agree that people commute more than ever. But it is people who are in a vulnerable situation right now, and it is also vulnerable people who may have been there for many years. They have kids. These kids get ripped out of their everyday lives. These kids are being moved somewhere else. We want to break the social legacy, and we think that this makes it harder, plus depopulated Copenhagen, so that it could actually become a rich man's ghetto at the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162240	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162241	I mean, I don't see Copenhagen being depopulated, I guess I'm gonna have to say that just so quietly. That's not what it suggests. Now Mr. Jan Johansen saw you get ripped out of everything and talks about the situation you're in. Yes, the very best thing that could happen was that the parents got to work. However, this would significantly strengthen the future of children. So it's about people going to work, and I just can't quite comprehend that the Social Democrats are working directly against people going to work by providing such high social benefits so that it doesn't pay to work. It must be a value in itself, however, for you to support yourself and yours, and so the ceiling on cash benefits is part of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162323	We thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, as the question has been closed. Let's move on. Welcome to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior to question 14 from Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162334	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162335	Thank you. How does the Minister react to the alleged increase in the number of cases in which municipalities remove, without cause, compensation for lost earnings to parents of disabled children, what, in the Minister's view, could be the reason for this development, and what initiatives does the Minister intend to take to remedy the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162409	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162410	Thank you for the question. Of course, it sounds violent when it appears from the article that the number of referrals from the Ankestyrelsen in cases of lost earnings should have increased fivefold between 2013 and 2015, and it is not really a figure I can recognise either. I assume that this article refers to the appeal statistics published by the Ankestyrelsen on their website, but the figures in that statistics cannot be directly compared because the figures from 2013 only cover 1⁄2 years. Then it is also important in this discussion to remember that a referral means that the municipality has to re-examine the matter and take a decision again, but it also means that a municipality will be able to reach the same decision again once the new information has been obtained. The article also states that the municipalities remove the aid without any objective justification. If that is true, of course it is not legal, because the municipality must always give a factual justification if you change a decision on for example. lost earnings. However, I know that the rules are difficult, and we have seen this most recently in a number of cases of lost earnings and long school days, which the committee has also asked about. That is why I have taken the Minister of Education under the arm and we agree that we are sending a joint shepherd letter to the municipalities on how the primary school law and how the rules on lost earnings play together. I believe that this is necessary, and it is both my hope and my expectation that the letter will help to clarify the rules for the municipalities and, hopefully, to reduce the number of cases that the Ankestyrelsen is redeploying or revisiting.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162557	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162559	Now it is the case that the Danish People's Party has tabled a motion for a resolution on suspensive effect, so that it has just had suspensive effect also in cases of lost earnings. There was a unanimous Parliament behind that motion for a resolution. I would like to follow up on that part: does the Minister not think that there should be suspensive effect in these matters, so that parents do not suddenly find themselves in a situation where they cannot lose earnings for their children? Another thing the minister says is that the minister sends out a shepherd's letter. Does the Minister send out the shepherd letter because the Minister thinks that the municipalities interpret the legislation incorrectly?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162639	The Minister of Education and I are sending out a shepherd letter because we actually recognise that the interaction between the primary school law and the rules on lost earnings is apparently difficult for the municipalities to find out because the two things play together. It is, of course, in different areas of legislation, but when we talk about children with disabilities who, of course, have a compulsory education, this is an important discussion, so we are sure that the municipalities can handle it, and that is why we send out this shepherd's letter together.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162719	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162719-2	The Minister speaks out in relation to it with suspensive effect in the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, where we were a unanimous Parliament, which felt that also lost earnings were covered by the rules on suspensive effect. I would like the Minister to reply to that. And then I would like the Minister to answer when the Minister intends to send out this shepherd's letter.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162737	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162738	Yeah, now there's just a lot of questions coming in a drive. I do not agree with the suspensive effect; and the shepherd's letter is being prepared.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162746	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162747	This means that the Minister cannot give a date when the municipalities can expect to receive this shepherd letter. There are simply some parents here in difficult situations. What we are also reading is: "Normally, parents of disabled children can be compensated for lost earnings if they spend time caring for their disabled child. However, the municipalities have begun to remove that aid to a much greater extent without any objective justification. That's what this article also says. And then it says that this family has had their compensation removed for 12 hours, and then the municipality stopped supporting it, and then the family had to complain to the Ankestyrelsen. Then the municipality then set the support up to 4 hours, but the Ankestyrelsen then said that it should be set up to 12 hours. So there's something amber-switching wrong here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162841	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162842	Yes, excuse me, but I think it may be amber-soundingly wrong to stand up and get excited that I am actually stating that we are preparing a joint letter to the Minister of Education and I jointly to the municipalities, explaining how the two rules are to be seen in context. And then there is a frustration that there isn't an exact date when a letter will be sent out. Excuse me, I think that's a little irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162905	Question 14 is over. However, we are continuing with the same actors in question 15, which is for the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, and that is by Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162912	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162913	Does the Minister consider it reasonable that families with handicapped children should suddenly be deprived of compensation for lost earnings for no objective reason, as evidently happens in certain municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162922	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026162923	As I also said in the previous reply, it is not legal to deprive compensation without objective reasons and, of course, a municipality must comply with the law when decisions are taken. It acts among other things. to ensure that a decision is both well-founded and factual. This also applies, of course, to cases involving help to cover lost earnings. That is why I am convinced that the clear shepherd's letter, this statement which sets out how the rules are, will help clarify the rules. It is therefore intended to prevent the municipalities from making mistakes in future decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026163012	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026163013	Does the Minister believe that the legislation is clear in this area, in relation to how the municipalities interpret the legislation? The minister will send out this shepherd's letter, but he can't tell us when the minister will send it out. I know the minister wants to send out a shepherd's letter. I have read this on TV 2/Østjylland's website on 14 October, and then I think: How long can it take for such a shepherd's letter to be written? It can't take long. Does the Minister send it out, like saying to the municipalities, that they should or is it the law that the Minister thinks there is something wrong with? It is the case that the municipalities also have to set their service levels. There have been challenges with that too. One simply sets a ceiling on how much people can get, and it is not in accordance with the legislation that says that it should be according to an individual assessment. Another thing is that you can question the individual assessment if there are a lot of municipalities following a number of examples from Aarhus, i.e. that other municipalities follow and take the compensation for the lost earnings from families with a disabled child.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026163119	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026163120	The reason I'm working with the Minister of Education and we're kind of working on doing this is because it's two pieces of law. It is both a primary school law, and then it is a law of lost earnings. No, the individual legal complexes are not each problematic, but they must play together, since children in this country go to school and children in that country have the right to education. That's why things have to be together. And excuse me, but I think it's irresponsible to be aggressive that there isn't a date for a letter coming. We're doing it. It's two ministers who make this letter together because they're two pieces of legislation. You don't just do that one afternoon when you sit down at a desk. We are in the process of preparing it. It'll come out soon. I promise to inform the questioner and the committee, and you will get a copy of the letter when it is sent to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026163215	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026163216	The questioner is not aggressive, but the questioner is concerned about this development, as we can see, in relation to the families that it is about, the children that it is about, and the children who cannot handle being in a school but who are forced to a long school day. Yeah, I'm touched by that, but I'm not aggressive. The Minister knows that too. This is an area I care about, and I think it is very, very unfortunate that this is happening. And I will return to it again with the suspensive effect to which the Minister has not replied. Is it not a good idea for us to have a suspensive effect in this area so that families are not suddenly deprived of compensation for lost earnings?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026163253	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026163254	To the end: No, I do not think that suspensive effect is the right tool to use. We are currently discussing how to work more specifically with alerts if different decisions are changed. However, I am glad that we have reached agreement on what this is all about, because it is important to maintain that all children, including children with disabilities, are entitled to education and that the rules on helping to cover lost earnings apply here, of course. Therefore, it is extra complicated for parents, but also for the municipalities to keep track of this set of rules, and that is why the Minister of Education and I jointly produce this shepherding letter to clarify what the rules are and to prevent errors in decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026163340	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026163341	I don't understand the suspensive effect. The Left also voted in favour of the part of the resolution that concerns it. Then the Minister has changed his attitude towards suspensive effect. We even had the Ministry draw up proposals on which areas could run under suspensive effect. The loss of earnings actually came from the Ministry. Then the Minister has changed his mind about that part. Something else is that I appeal to the Minister to make it happen with these cases, so that those parents who have a child with disabilities are calmed down because those matters will be individualised in the future. This means that one municipality after another will not be able to cut this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026163431	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026163432	However, I can confirm that such cases must be assessed in concrete and individual terms and that, of course, we cannot just say that we are only taking economic considerations into account. They must be disclosed objectively. The rapporteur also nods. It is true that there are some bad examples. To return to the debate on suspensive effect, I would say that it is true that we have launched this work to look at how to work wiser with decisions that have an intrusive effect. Can we do so wisely rather than using suspensive effects so as not only to create an almost incalculable system of complaints, but perhaps to work far wiser with alerts? This is something in which Danske Handicap organisations actually support us. But this is another debate and we should not take it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026163519	Thank you. The question is closed. We move on to the next question in the line. It is a question to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior asked by Mrs Pernille Bendixen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026163530	We shall begin with the questioner's question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026163533	Thank you, President. The question is: what is the Minister's view that several municipalities use ship travel to the Caribbean as a form of therapy/rehab, and does the Minister find it completely impossible to find similar therapy/rehab that stays within the country's borders?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026163550	The Minister for answering the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026163552	Thank you for the question. To begin with, I would like to say that the tasks in the social field must lie with the municipalities. They must be dealt with by the municipalities, and I think that is basically sensible, because the municipalities are closest to the people involved. Of course, when it comes to dealing with vulnerable young people, the municipality must take action that best responds to the needs of the young person and best assists the young person. There are quite a lot of opportunities for local authorities to choose the specific measures which are most appropriate, but they also have a duty to take the necessary economic considerations into account, i.e. to find the right balance. From the outset, I am confident that the municipalities will do so, because I do not believe that a municipality has any interest whatsoever in using an effort that does not work or is disproportionate. I understand, however, that the question arises as to whether these ship projects are the best solution for young people and whether this is the best use of taxpayers' money. I can personally doubt that. One can take an interest in whether it really works. However, it is still important to make it clear that it is the municipalities which, on the basis of a professional assessment, have to decide on the concrete actions. I also think that it is dangerous if we are standing here in the Folketing and in the eyes of the goose, to know what action a municipality should or should not take in a very concrete example.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026163726	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026163729	Thank you for your answer. After all, we agree that we should not stand here and deal with matters or decide what the municipalities should do and should not do. We respect municipal autonomy. We must, of course, continue to do so. But I guess there's got to be some kind of upper limit where you have to put your heels in. One might ask the hypothetical question: are we going to send them on even wilder journeys? Isn't there some ethical and moral line? There's got to be. And isn't there a limit we can draw from the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026163801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026163802	Surely we can send out clear political signals. I think that is done by taking the debate. On the whole, I myself am trying to be very focused on what the real effect of different bets is. Does what you do work? How much does it cost? Does it really help if people, for example, have massive hash abuse? It goes without saying that it is important to get away from that environment. Whether away is to the Caribbean or to somewhere else in the country, I am confident that municipalities and case managers are professionally prepared to be able to decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026163840	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026163841	It can be said that this may have an effect on some young people. We have seen that in some television programmes. There have been x numbers who have come out of the environment and abuse. But one could also argue that it is just as much the motivation of the young person to enter the project that has been decisive. It can be said that if they had been heavier, it would probably not have been through voluntary action. This is also motivation and volunteering. At least I have some thoughts that it may be as much the motivation that works as the offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026163917	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026163919	Basically, I share the interest of the questioner in the area and the interest that the interventions should work. I also believe that this is basically one of the biggest problems for young people with massive abuse. Lots of bets are being put in place and some have better effects than others. This also means that things are being done that are probably not really helping at best. I am concerned that we are getting much more knowledge of what efforts really make a difference, so that we can spread the methods and the efforts and get children and young people free from abuse and, at the very least, prevent them from getting there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164003	The questioner for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164004	In an answer to my colleague Mr. Peter Skaarup writes to the Minister that the municipalities have a duty to supervise the young people placed in care. Is it the view of the Minister that the municipalities have lived up to this when there have actually been cases of both hash abuse and alcohol on those trips to the Caribbean?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164022	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164024	I certainly do not want to go so far as to say that people should be monitored by taking the entire trip to the Caribbean. That is also why I share the natural scepticism that interventions take place so far from the country of origin. It is not acceptable if there is abuse while, as it were, you are in municipal custody and while there are bets in progress. This is basically a problem in our society. This is also true of many of the institutions. Abuse is also taking place in youth education, etc. That is why I have great respect for the leaders who take the lead and say that there must be zero tolerance here and young people must get out of their abuses.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164112	Thank you, Minister. The question is closed. As was previously announced, Question 17 (Question No 17) is: S 71) withdrawn by the author. That is why we move on to Question 18, which is the next item on the agenda. It's for the Minister of Justice. Christian Langballe from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164129	Mr President, first of all, we have the floor. Christian Langballe to read the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164133	Thank you, President. The question is: does the Minister consider that sufficient demands are being made on prison imams in connection with recruitment and that there are sufficient opportunities to dismiss him if it turns out that he is a radical Islamist?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164150	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164151	Thank you for the question. I should have answered something similar to the previous questioner, so without prejudice to the references to the previous questioner in my paper, I would say that there is no one, including imams, who will have to work with radicalised prisoners in prisons if it is considered to be able to influence the inmates in an extremist way. The people we employ must perform their tasks in a way that supports Danish society and does not contribute to radicalisation. I would like to point out that religious preachers, including Imams, can play an important role in preventing radicalisation and extremism among prisoners. Much is already being done to ensure that it is the right people who are employed in the Department of Criminal Services, and this also applies to religious ministers, including imams. However, there is always an opportunity for things to be done even better, and that is why, in the light of our cross-party discussions on initiatives in the field of radicalisation, among other things, I have the opportunity. proposed that the existing supervision of religious preachers in prisons be strengthened, and I have also proposed that a special screening of religious preachers be introduced before they are recruited in the criminal services to ensure that they have no known association with extremists or environments.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164315	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164315-2	One of the reasons I ask is that, firstly, it turned out that the imam in Vestre Prison, where Omar El-Husein served and served, subsequently said that there was not much extremism among the prisoners, and, secondly, that he would not distance himself from Sharia and stoning, which would at least suggest that the imam itself was radicalised, but I do not know enough about the matter to be able to say. However, that seems to me to be the case, and I think it is a little lax if you do not have some supervisory authority under the prison system which can look at what is being said and can also look at what the prisoners are saying. For example, if there are some moderate Muslims who dare not go to the imam because the imam itself is a radical Islamist, then I think we have a big problem. For the risk of radicalisation in prisons, and I think the Minister agrees with me on that, is very, very great. But I'd like to hear how supervision of this kind is going to take place. Is it a supervision that the prison itself has to carry out, or is it something that some outsiders are going to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164446	Yes, as the questioner has already indicated, there is today a oversight of the religious ministers who are employed in the field service. However, the sharpening that we are now introducing means that interviews are held with the place of employment at regular intervals to ensure the continued suitability of the religious minister to work in the prison system and, in this context, experts may be called upon, as necessary, for external purposes. In addition, therefore, a screening of PET should be introduced in connection with recruitment. This is done in order to assess whether they are persons associated with extremists or environments.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164529	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164529-2	There's just one more thing. I have here a job advertisement from Jobindex from 2014 where an imam is sought for the Copenhagen prisons, and here it says, among other things, that a criminal offence will speak against an employment and that you must be able to be given security approval. Does this mean that, if you have committed a criminal offence, you can actually be employed if there is anything else that speaks in favour? Or how is that supposed to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164608	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164609	Now the questioner catches me on unconfirmed grounds, I would have almost said, but my best bet would be that it is because one will have an opportunity to assess the nature of the individual criminal offence. There is, after all, a fairly wide range of criminal law provisions. I also think I can guarantee that, if we talk about any significant criminal offence, it will also have an impact on the recruitment of the person concerned. But if the questioner wants a more precise answer to that, I think I will reply in writing because I simply cannot answer it on a stand-by basis other than in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164643	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164644	Will the Minister try to tell us how this screening is supposed to take place? After all, we have had discussions about screening, and I have among other things. I think that people who want to be Danish citizens should be screened, and that is something they have not been able to do. But it can be done with imams, and I would like to hear: how is this screening supposed to take place?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164712	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164712-2	The purpose of the screening is to identify whether the religious preacher is associated with extremists or environments. So it is a matter of something different and more than whether the religious preacher has been punished in the past, and in the screening process carried out by the secret service it is particularly important to identify whether the religious minister is associated with extremists or environments. In addition to that, I think it would be far too far to explain the working methods of the intelligence service in this regard in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164750	Nor can it be achieved in the 30 seconds available, so we will finish the question here. We move on to the next question. That is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène. 19, which is also addressed to the Minister for Justice, and that is what Mr. Kaare Dybvad of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164806	I give Kaare Dybvad the floor for reading. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164809	Thank you very much. What is the Minister's political attitude to tighten up the penal framework for violation of Article 264d of the Criminal Code?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164823	Let me start by saying that, in the context of the consultation on 11 October, I referred to the issue of changing the criminal framework for digital sexual abuse. This is a deeply worrying trend and, unfortunately, a seemingly relatively widespread phenomenon. These are illegal acts which show a complete lack of respect for other people. It is therefore a problem which I take very seriously and which I intend to address. For this very reason, I have launched a mapping of the area and, together with the Minister for Children, Education and Gender Equality, I will launch a joint initiative with initiatives in this regard. We have asked the Criminal Code Council to consider whether there is a need to amend the provisions of the Criminal Code on the violation of privacy and defamation, and in this respect the Council should consider the level of punishment in such cases in order to assess whether further initiatives are needed in this area. The Criminal Code Council thus sees, among other things: I would like to know whether the criminal sanctions provided for in Article 264d of the Criminal Code should be lifted and the report will probably be presented just around the turn of the year. That's the expectation. That is where I expect to put forward a bill in February, which includes, among other things: aims to follow up on the forthcoming report by the Criminal Law Council on violations of privacy and defamation. Before I consider whether it is the penalty for breach of Article 264d of the Criminal Code that needs to be lifted, I would therefore like to see the result of the entire review of the area by the Criminal Code Council. And a great deal can be asked of the government, but to explain its political initiatives before they are presented, I think perhaps a little unreasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164956	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026164957	Thank you for that answer. I am a little surprised that the Minister for Justice has of all people deposited his capacity to formulate political positions with the Criminal Law Council. I remember a phrase saying that a sheriff had come to town, and if I know the Midwest in the United States or the area further south, that sheriff would probably not wait for the Criminal Code to come up with a position. At least it's new tones from here. The only thing I am asking for in this way and I will not be overly controversial about it, because I know that there are many from the Minister's support party who are on the list of speakers here today, so the time is limited, after all, to hear what the Minister really thinks politically about these things. Is there not a position on what the Criminal Code Council is waiting to clarify?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165050	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165052	But I also believe that if the questioner has followed Danish policy, he will know that since my accession I have thought, to a large extent, that the terms of the Danish judicial procedure were appropriate. Those were the real punishments we were going to have. And the Social Democrats have therefore based their political attitude on the erroneous assumption that the penalties for this were only up to six months, which in some cases could, under aggravating circumstances, result in as much as six years in prison. That is why I see that the immediate challenge is to bring up the real penalties in certain areas rather than to have virtually indifferent talk about penalties. That is not, in fact, what is essentially the challenge of Danish criminal justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165136	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165137	Now we got a little bit into the technique, and it is of course also the Minister's privilege to reply, as the Minister thinks best. But am I to understand this because that is how I understood the answer that the penalty, as it stands now, is fine in terms of the Minister's political attitude and that it should not be tightened up further?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165158-2	Well, that depends on whether the Social Democratic Party knows where it is. For the Social Democrats have always said that it was six months old, and that is not true, and I said that at the conciliation meeting. My position is that I would like to be properly informed before I determine what level of punishment I would like to see carried out in the Parliamentary Chamber. I think we can try to deceive the Danish people a great deal, but that I am not in favour of harsh penalties, I think it will be a rather difficult task anyway. I just want to know what I'm dealing with.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165229	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165230	I'm not trying to tell anyone anything, and I don't think the Minister does either. The only thing I am really trying to find out is whether you think that the penalty is not the level of punishment, but the penalty should be tightened up in relation to where it is now or whether it should not be tightened up. And, of course, the Minister is entitled not to reply to that, but it would be nice to know exactly where we are going politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165255	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165256	Well, immediately I think that a six-year penalty, which in some cases is in these cases, is good enough to be able to move within. That is all the more important, after all, to clarify properly the circumstances under which it happens and what practice is etc. in relation to the current level. Because it is also true that there are a number of cases in which one might be surprised at the length of the sentences being handed down. And that is why the Criminal Code Council needs to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165325	Thank you to the questioner. The next question is also to the Minister for Justice, and that is what Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165333	The questioner to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165337	Thank you. What initiatives does the Minister intend to take against young people as young as 7 years of age on the basis of the article "New Report Reveals: 7-year-olds traveling in criminal environments" from metroXpress on 19 October 2016?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165351	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165353	I would like to emphasise that it is an important priority for the government and for me, as Minister of Justice, that there is a noticeable consequence when young people, including young people under the age of 15, commit crime. That is why it is also clear from the government's constitution that the government will reform the fight against juvenile delinquency. Children as young as seven years of age should not be involved in criminal environments. This must be brought to an end through reactions anchored in the social services and not, in my view, in the criminal justice system. And that is the way I think it should be in the future. Having said that, in the SSP cooperation, which is also mentioned in the article, we have cooperation between schools, social services and police, aimed at preventing juvenile delinquency. SSP cooperation is the foundation of local crime prevention work in relation to children and young people at risk of crime. This is due in particular to the fact that, due to its composition of local authorities, cooperation is a very suitable forum to clarify what forms of crime prevention initiatives can have a positive effect locally. It is therefore important to focus on the use of SSP cooperation, so that it is the password early on, and that is also why, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen asks if children as young as 7 years of age can be deployed with the right preventive local initiatives to address specific crime problems in relation to children and young people. What is crucial is that the government launches a reform of the fight against juvenile delinquency in the face of the slightly older children and young people, so that more consistent action can be taken against the hard core of young criminals. And there I am quite sure we can find common ground.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165529	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165531	Thank you for your answer. I can admit that when I read this article, I was about to fall behind, just from the beginning, which is actually a quote. I am just reading for the sake of good order: On the inner Nørrebro, a group of children aged 7-13 years have been troubled. The group has done vandalism, cast stones and had conflicting behavior. Then you can find other articles that show that this group, these people, does not respect our police officers or laws and rules in general. It's totally grotesque, totally crazy. What we see is this little brother effect, where you swirl a lot, very young people, yes, right down to children at the age of seven, into crime, because then you know that you could get away with this behavior more easily, where it's harder to come after you and where it's harder to be punished. One of the reasons I have actually asked this question is that before the elections, the bourgeois parties launched, that if they won the elections, they would think a whole new system for these young people and children too, so that we can get people out of crime before they can fill up the care depots, but also so that we could avoid some victims as a result of this crime. Of course, I am really impatient about when the Minister and the government intend to call us for negotiations on this juvenile court, on the age of crime. This is something that is very, very high on the wish list of the Danish People's Party and has been doing so for a long time. So we have been sitting here for a year and a half since the elections, and I think some of us are left feeling that things are taking an incredibly long time over in the Ministry of Justice. That is why it would be nice if the Minister were to be able to shake hands today on the fact that something happened, and I would like to do so very quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165717	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165718	I'm sure I can shake hands on that. And there's no real reason to shoot at the Justice Department in this context either, because it's kind of me who, in this context, has given the Ministry time, because what I know is that for example. The question of seven-year-olds who are involved in crime lies with Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen and I were equally concerned, and that is why it was important that there was a proper, well-substantiated job, both in relation to bringing young people to account and drawing a consequence of what has happened, but also so that we avoid the talk that nothing is happening and that it is just another change of the system that has no effect. I can shake hands on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165807	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165808	Another thing that is important to us in this process, just to mention that element too, is that in recent times there has been a focus on some stories that we have sent young criminals around the world, to the Caribbean, on all sorts of boat trips. There are people who are law-abiding and behave properly.I know a lot of them, including young people who have never been offered such a journey, which sounds quite exciting. Will the Minister also shake hands with the fact that an arrangement such as this will also be included in the package that the government intends to present to us?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165845	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165847	What I can shake hands with is that we are going to do what works in relation to, among other things. people who are soft, hardened criminals, and who, among other things, are. Inspires seven-year-olds to join us. It will be a response with consistency, but it is not just a response with consistency; it will also be a response that works. That is why I do not immediately rule out anything, even though I think that the example, as Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen presents here, sounds bright. That is certainly not what lies within the framework of what I have been dealing with.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165922	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165924	Just to ask a follow-up question: does the Minister also think that it is deeply, deeply unfair that young criminals are sent off on exciting trips while victims are often left with a very violated sense of justice? I think it will be a slave's start to the lives of the victims who are exposed to this, that they can then sit and watch that the people who have exposed them to it have it fantastic, they travel around the world, they live the fat life. Does the Minister also consider this to be deeply, deeply unfair?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165951	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026165952	There is a time when, if it is children who commit something, we must draw the consequences of their being children, and then we must do what works. I have not become soft soup-- no, what is such a thing, I remember what it is called now, but red porridge soup teacher or something like that, but we also have to take into account that when we talk about, for example, red porridge soup teacher. 7-year-olds, so it's hard to say that they're completely and completely responsible for what they're doing. And that is, of course, the balance that we have to find together in relation to the slightly older group, i.e. when it is one situation and when it is the other. But I can promise you I won't be presenting anything with big first-class travel around the world, that's not exactly the plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170036	The question is closed. We thank the questioner. The next question is also to the Minister for Justice, and that is what Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170045	I give the floor to the author to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170049	Thank you. What does the Minister intend to do with the development of charges against criminal foreigners which have more than doubled over the last seven years?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170059-2	The government's policy is to crack down on all criminals. This also applies to criminal foreigners. I have the expectation that foreigners, who are guests in our country, will behave properly. Foreigners who commit crime during their stay in this country abuse the confidence of Danish society. It is unacceptable if it is seen as attractive for foreign citizens to come here to commit crime. Crime must not be profitable and must meet with clear consequences. Basically, therefore, I believe that foreigners who abuse their stay here in Denmark to commit crime should be expelled as far as possible and as far as Denmark's international obligations allow. That is why I have already indicated to the Attorney General that I consider it essential that cases of serious or repeated crime, where the prosecution has considered that the conditions for expulsion are present, be promoted as far as is possible. Against this background, the attorney general has among other things. the general guidelines set out in the Public Prosecutor's Expulsion Notice. The Attorney General emphasizes that an unconditional expulsion must be sought if the relationship under the provisions of the Aliens Act may lead to the expulsion of the foreigner concerned. Steps have therefore been taken to ensure that the expulsion of foreigners is always or as far as possible sought in cases where the prosecution considers that the condition of expulsion exists. Having said that, it is worrying that the police's strategic analysis for this year also points out that part of the crime committed by foreign travelling criminals is well organised. That is why I am also very concerned that we risk standing without an agreement on Europol on 1 May 2017. If that happens, we will no longer be able to draw on the information and intelligence held by Europol on foreign travelling criminals in the fight against crimes committed by foreigners. However, we are still working, as agreed with all the parties of the Danish Parliament, to find a solution that will ensure that the Danish police are closely associated with Europol. In addition, as many aliens as possible must be transferred to serve in their country of origin once they have been convicted. And we will look into what can be done legally, economically and practically. At the same time, the government will work to establish Danish prison places abroad. In fact, I am currently invited to Romania for a meeting with the Romanian Minister on this subject. Once the criminal aliens have been convicted and expelled from Denmark, they should not fill up in Danish prisons.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170327	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170328	Thank you. With regard to the Minister's concern about Europol, it is perhaps worth pointing out that this increase has taken place over a number of years since we were a member of Europol. So I hope, of course, that there are several other tools in the toolbox of the Minister. I would like to hear a little bit about whether the Minister sees a development in the number of purely actual expulsions. For one thing, what the Minister intends and has wanted to do for almost a year and a half. But something else is what actually happens, because the victims of crime may not always understand that a long time has to pass from thought to action. So what can the Minister say about the development of the number of people sentenced to expulsion?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170416	In other words, the rules on expulsion itself are the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. What I want to deal with in this area, where I, as Minister of Justice, have the overall responsibility, is the issue of the prosecution and the role of the prosecution in cases where the issue of expulsion is relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170440	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170441	I do not think I had a full answer, but let me go in a different direction. If you look at statistics on which citizens end up in Denmark and commit crime here, a fairly clear pattern emerges. I wonder whether the Minister has never had the idea that it might be an idea to curb the approach of citizens from that very number of countries effectively.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170508	However, as I said, rules on visas, entry, etc. So not rules that fall within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. It is not because I am unwilling to reply to Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen's question, but I do not want to go into areas which concern other ministers. I have clear views on them, but this is not the right place to answer them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170529	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170530	I don't think I have any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170534	Then we close the question and move on to the next question. It's also for the Minister of Justice, and that's what Mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170556	Mr President, we have the floor. Rasmus Prehn for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170558	Thank you. I have to read out: if the Minister finds it acceptable that only 0.9%. of all reported bicycle thefts end in a charge?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170604	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170605	Statistics from Denmark show that the charges for bicycle thefts in 2015 amounted to 0.9%, as has been said. It sounds very low immediately, and I would like the charges to be significantly higher. It is just the case with bicycle thefts that, unfortunately, they are often difficult to solve because there are rarely traces of the perpetrator or other information that can lead to the investigation. Therefore, the police usually have very limited investigative capabilities in these contexts. This does not mean, of course, that there must be lawless conditions. The law must be kept, and I also know that the police are aware of whether, on the basis of a specific police professional judgement, there is a basis for a closer investigation of whether a bicycle has been stolen. In addition, I can only call for the continued reporting of bicycle thefts to the police and for the police to be approached if the purchase of a bicycle suspects that the bicycle has been stolen. Moreover, I am always open to new technological opportunities which can contribute to a higher rate of charge or to a reduction in the number of bicycle thefts.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170710	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170711	First of all, thank you for your reply. I understand that it is not in any way the Minister for Justice's responsibility that we have this situation. This is a situation that we have probably had for many years. But I think we've all been through this with stealing a bike or at least knowing someone who has, and it's a very, very big problem. Here recently Denmark's Radio had made an inventory of how it really looks with the number of stolen bicycles, and it is therefore very, very large numbers that are involved. And then when you look at how many reviews there are and how many people end up with a charge, then bikes stand out and also stand out compared to mopeds and other things. I would like to hear the Minister for Justice say: what is the reason why it may be harder to solve a bike theft than, for example, to do so. A moped theft? That seems to me to be very incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170802	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170804	In other words, starting to botanize in the various forms of investigation by the police would require me to go outside the scope of the question. I don't want to do that. That is not something I would like to be extremely wise about either. There may be many reasons for this, and they know the police better than I do. Fortunately, we have seen a decrease in the number of bicycle thefts, but that is one of my hopes in this context, among other things, is that technological development can help us solve this challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170843	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170846	Thank you for that answer. I also think that what makes sense here is that we try to think constructively and think about what we then have of opportunities. Now the Minister has said twice that it may be that technological advances can make it easier. So, you buy a mobile phone today, you can put it to be found again if it's lost you can track it. Could such a technology be used in relation to bicycles, i.e. that there may be a chip or a transmitter attached to all new bikes, so that you can find them again, or can you imagine a new form of electronic frame number or something else that makes tracking a stolen bike easier?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026170929	You can imagine a great deal in technology. The technology with chips is, for example. And you have to expect these units to be so cheap at some point that it would also be quite natural to have in connection with bicycles and other things. But I don't want to know. An innovation group is looking at these things and I look forward very much to seeing the outcome of the work they are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026171004	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026171006	I am glad that the Minister would like to look at it, because it is something that really bothers the Danes in everyday life. You have to remember that buying a bike is now a pretty expensive business. I have three children myself and have bought them new bikes; it is really a printing. And if that's how you get this bike stolen, it can be hard to find it again. That's why we need to think quickly about this area in terms of doing something. And there I think it could be good too, given what the government is doing, and what we as a society are doing, what municipalities are doing to ensure proper bicycle parking and everything else, that is, what you spend money in that area, so that you can park properly, so that something is also done so that people do not refrain from cycling because they think: Arah, the risk of having the bike stolen down at the station is simply too great.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026171053	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026171054	Now I'm the old mayor of this town, and I'm lucky I'll calm down in the sense that this doesn't seem to have an effect on people's desire to ride a bike. In fact, there are a lot of bicycles and there are increasing numbers, and there are also fewer bicycle thefts. But it is clear that this is a challenge that we also take seriously. That is why I would be very interested to see what the innovation group in question is coming up with. My hope is that we can solve quite a bit of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026171122	The question is closed. We shall move on to the next question, and that is Question No. 23 to the Minister for Justice, and that is what Mr. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026171133	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026171136	Thank you. Does the Minister agree that it is the right decision to close the local police stations in Skagen, Hirtshals and Døstring because the North Jutland Police are getting fewer resources in the new police settlement?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026171146	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026171147	The reality is that we have a threat and crime picture that is changing. In order to be able to operate in a new reality with terrorist threats, refugee flows and new complex forms of crime, the police need to increase specialist skills and obtain larger investigative units, a stronger preparedness and new technology. In this context, there will also be a need for a certain degree of co-location of tasks and of staff precisely for example. Getting these major investigation units. Overall, the reorganisation in North Jutland will provide a strengthened and self-supporting response, which will be gathered in larger and more specialised units.I also know that there is a slightly new discussion about burglary up there, which has gone down again.Similarly strengthened investigation into larger professional communities, which are shielded from patrol services. The North Jutland Police do not expect the planned changes to affect the response times of the police circle. Response times depend on the location of patrols on the roads and not on the location of the stations. Police tools are not currently running from the North Jutland sub-stations in, among other places. Skagen, Hirtshals and Dust Ring. The police in North Jutland have continuously been in dialogue with the local mayors on structural change, both bilaterally and in the district council. In November, the leadership of the police department will start an individual cooperation with each municipality on local opportunities for actual police presence. This may, for example, be the possibility for the municipality to provide a workplace in its premises. It will enable the police to use it as necessary, and it will also be possible to use the new mobile police station of the circuit at certain times.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026171324	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026171326	Thank you for your answer. We are fully aware that there are a number of challenges in terms of terrorism and technology and various other things and matters, but I am asking about that, among others. I am curious to hear what the reply is to their request, because they are concerned on behalf of the citizens. We are concerned on behalf of the citizens, they are the ones who make representations and say that the police will become less visible when our near police station closes, as they say. Then it may well be that a police car can come in every now and then, but people feel that security as a citizen of Skagen, Hirtshals and Dust Ring becomes less when there is no fixed meeting place for the police and a starting point from which you can drive. That is why, of course, I would like to know whether the Minister shares the concerns of the citizens or whether the Minister is simply indifferent and refers to the fact that there is a new technological development, so we have to deal with it. What does the Minister think?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026171428	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026171429	I certainly care, but I am also the person who has to weigh feelings and reason in this context. And if it is the case that the police are getting better by larger and strengthened units, as it is, for example. This happened in North Jutland, where when the number of break-ins increased, people gathered in larger investigation teams, people who were supposed to investigate these break-ins, and then it fell, so I have to draw the consequences of it. I will answer the mayors of Northern Jutland, but there are some assumptions that do not quite keep water in what has been said. For example: is the logic of the map, which has been in NORDJYSK Stiftstidende, that the police are staying at a police station and only leaves when something may arise. That is not the reality, because, as I said before, there are some specific places that you have never driven out of, at least not in the time I have been sitting, so I do not recognize that assumption. Secondly, it is also assumed that the police in an emergency mission run 80 km/h. outside urban development, but now I have been driving the police myself, and I can guarantee that this is not the case. You drive with an emergency, and you drive fast.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026171539	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026171540	It is only a good thing that the police come forward quickly when it is needed, but the citizens say that they are genuinely insecure, and they go to their council members, and that is why the minister gets a letter about it on his desk, in which the mayor, on behalf of the citizens, expresses his views. That is why the question is how the Minister will remove that insecurity. What I am asking here is, of course, whether the Minister has been involved in advising on the fact that there will be fewer resources and that people will have to be given to the border. I believe that the North Jutland Police Department will have to hand over. Well, then there'll be less to do with. It may be sensible to put it together in some larger units, but who has come up with the idea that it is best for the police in North Jutland to ensure that there are fewer stations? Is it the North Jutland Police Department, or is it the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026171635	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026171636	In other words, it is clear that I have full confidence that the local management and it is important that it is the local management within the framework that gives priority to how best to organise the work. Well, that's quite certain. But there is no reason to hide the fact that the Danish police are in a difficult situation, and they will do so this year, and they will do so next year. That's one of them. Therefore, that party of the author, inter alia: with a number of parties in the Folketing including my own has entered into a police settlement with which large resources are provided to the police, they just take time to get in. At present there are approx. 250 more employees in the Danish police force than there were at the same time last year, including 60 police officers, and this is a development that we will see strengthened. However, there is no reason to hide the fact that the efforts at the border and the guarding of terrorism are draining all the resources of police circles.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026171731	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026171732	That is precisely why we have to consider whether this border guard is something that must continue and whether we have got the protection of terrorism up so high that we find it difficult to turn it down again, so that it binds too many people to that task, and so that the security of the ordinary citizen in the context of ordinary police action is damaged. That is also why it seems that the government is hurrying very slowly. It has also announced that there will be a new police force, because it is true that the officers have too many hours of overtime and so on, and that no more officers can be stomped out of the ground. I think the minister usually says so. But when will the police force come so that more officers can be produced?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026171813	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026171815	It is absolutely true that both the government base and the police agreement state that a new political school must be set up, and the political school comes when the government says it will come, and I will not hold Mr. Bjarne Laustsen to the thrill, but say that my ambition is absolutely that it happens as soon as possible. I also believe that Mr. Bjarne Laustsen has been aware of and has been following the matter in public, and it has not been an easy process, but I myself hope for a swift conclusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026171845	The question is closed. As has already been announced, Question No 1 is: 24 (Spm. No. S 87) taken back. We shall therefore move on to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 25, and it is addressed to the Minister of Justice by Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026171901	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen for reading the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026171903	When does the Minister expect the condition to be normalized on Christiania as in the rest of the country, so that the police can patrol as normal, and does the Minister expect Pusher Street, as we know it, to be shut down forever?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026171914	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026171915	As a society, we should not accept that there are areas where the police cannot operate on a daily basis and where illegal activities can be carried out systematically and openly. Since the incident, when two cops and a civilian were shot, almost two months ago, there have been signs of improvement in relation to Christiania and that is, I had almost said of course, crucial to stick to the positive development. This therefore presupposes continued constructive cooperation between the Christians, the Fedaden Christiania Foundation and the police. The cooperation so far and the Copenhagen Police's intensive focus on initiatives include: led to the disappearance of the permanent hash stalls on Pusher Street, the so-called Pusher Street, and that they have not yet returned. The Copenhagen Police patrols Pusher Street to follow developments, as the police continue to work on crime prevention monitoring. The Copenhagen Police Department has my full support in this matter. And with the initiatives taken by the police, I expect the police to be able to gain free access to Christiania and that organised crime will not bite back.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172025	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172027	Thank you for your answer. I can, of course, start by fully acknowledging that I have always regarded Christiania as a lawless place, as a very insecure place, so not a place I have ever wanted to stay since. I have associated it with crime and trouble and contempt for everything called law and order, and some frameworks that you can thrive under. I do not want to hide the fact that if the whole of Denmark were like Christiania, there would not be much Denmark left; then it would all be anarchy and chaos, so nothing I associate with something that is particularly positive. We also saw this recently through what the Minister himself said, namely this very, very tragic incident in which two policemen were shot very seriously. I think that is how reminded all of us of how insecure a place Christiania is now basically. In this connection, the Minister said freely from memory that this was a momentum at Christiania, where one could include the Christianites, who might not otherwise have been particularly willing to conform to the law and the law of the country and obey the police when the police need it. There I would like to hear the Minister quite frankly: how does the Minister feel about the momentum?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172146	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172147	I think it's not done on its own that you've cleared some hashbods out there. My concern was all the time that at the moment we were delighted with something in and for itself historic because it is that the hashbods went away and that you saw the Christians themselves walk the street so said: Well, then that was it. So it's a difficult balance. I'm still hopeful about the development at Christiania, but it takes some of the Christianites. I still think that is possible: to see a decisive change after 40 years of lawlessness. I mean that. What is important is that organized crime does not bite back, and I still have a positive hope if not to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172235	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172236	My concern is that this momentum will run into the sand as soon as the media coverage disappears and we move on to other things and everyone thinks about something else. Then all of a sudden it takes time, and then you do not really get on with what the Minister himself has said, positive steps that the Christians actually took. Something that reminded me of that was when the police cleverly tried to set up video cameras that were raided again. Will the Minister work to ensure that Christiania is watched with camcorders on every corner of the street so that hopefully some of the criminal punks out there can be beaten down?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172313	Well, we need to make sure there's a stakeout. This is not so much the criminal environment, because they put on caps and hats etc., but what is certain is that buyers do not like being video-monitored. And we intend to look into this in ways that I will not go into in depth here. But at least I can guarantee that. Peter Kofod Poulsen too. It is clear that it was a step backwards in the public battle around Christiania that the cameras in question were torn down, but there is therefore no indication that the demolitions in question were carried out by the Christianites who previously made these positive statements.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172356	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172357	One of the things I think is very important if you are to keep the pressure on is that you have a strong police force to keep the pressure on this lawless area or this, at least, traditional lawless area. And that's where I can be worried when I hear about how pressured the Danish police are. We've been hearing about this for a really, really long time. We have also made a police settlement that provides more resources, but it takes time. What I would like to hear about keeping this pressure on is: does the Minister need to talk about additional resources? So, is it supposed that this pressure can be kept under the current framework?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172432	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172433	Speaking of the previous questioner, there is no reason to hide the fact that Danish police are challenged. It can be felt all over the place. Had Danish police been in a different situation, a lot of things could probably have been done quite differently than we are doing today. In relation to Christiania, I would like to say that the police settlement we have made provides more policemen. We can't just develop more of them. So if that is where it is, I would say that we have a good starting point, which can be built on in 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172511	The question is closed. We move on to the next question. It is addressed to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172523	Sir. Rasmus Prehn for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172526	Thank you very much. What considerations does the Minister have regarding the introduction of a new generation of frame numbers on Danish bicycles in electronic form or with a chip so that more of the record number of stolen bicycles can be recovered?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172539	It is actually fun that there was a separation between the questions, but we return to bicycle theft again, and it is quite fine that it is a quite important question. And what I was at least trying to say before was that I am very open to the new opportunities offered by technological development. Designing a digital frame number system and chip marking of bicycles seems to me very relevant to the challenges in question. I also know that the National Police are currently following work on new digital solutions for marking bicycle frames. The work takes place in a so-called innovation group with the participation of among others. traffic scientists, the Cyclist Association and insurance companies. As I have been informed, the innovation group will include: map a digital solution, which must be simple, practical and implementable. And it is quite certain that I look forward to hearing what the innovation group will come up with in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172632	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172633	Again, thank you very much for the Justice Minister's reply. I'm sorry I'm asking him twice about this cycling theft thing. My idea was actually that I would have put one of the questions to the Minister for Transport, but this very thing with the serial numbers actually belongs to the Minister for Justice, and that is why it was this way. So it's a big problem for a lot of people that there are these many bicycle thefts. Denmark's Radio has made an inventory of what it looks like with reported thefts, and there we can see that it is over 55,000 reviews of bicycle thefts that have been in 2015, and that is a great many. In comparison, you are down to just over 1,300 in the case of mopeds, and you have 2,100 in the case of cars. So bikes are one of the things that gets stolen most of all, and that's why we need to think offensively. I think it is extremely positive that the Minister for Justice then says that an innovation group has been set up to continue working on something here. But could the Minister not say a little more offensively that it is the government's policy that it is the Minister's policy that we should have a new generation of serial numbers? It's something about how we've had the current set numbers since 1941 or something like that. That could be a very good announcement here today, since we have even had two questions about it, that the minister could then say that he will take the lead in getting a generation of frame numbers that will enable you to find these stolen bikes much easier and much faster again, so that we can get to grips with this rather big problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172804	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172806	Unfortunately, I am now in a situation where I can say almost as in the Olsen gang: Young man, young man! I've been in politics for a long time, and I've tried my share of municipal and state-of-the-art projects. And I feel the most that since there is an innovation group and I'm not even saying it to be boring, because I think it sounds like something that is useful, I just want to see the results of it first. To me it sounds quite obvious and it is because there is a lot of pressure on all of us at the moment. It doesn't diminish the importance of this, but it's just nice to get the result in so you can base your work on something.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172854	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172855	I appreciate, of course, the realism of the Minister for Justice here and also the patience that must be required when one has such an important office, no doubt about it. What I'm thinking is that when there are so relatively many stolen bicycles, and we know from mobile phones and other things that you can trace in no time, it must also be possible to do so with new bikes, which people are healthy away for 6,000, 7,000, 8,000, 10,000 kr. for, that is, there is some form of registration of them, some kind of tracking device that allows you to find them relatively easily. However, it is very positive that, despite his reservations, the Minister for Justice says that he is in favour and that it seems obvious.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172936	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172939	However, I have actually tried it: I have been told that I am patient. However, it was actually very nice to try it too, I haven't actually tried that much before. But the thing is, that's right. It should be obvious and affordable, which is why I am very much looking forward to seeing what this innovation group is coming up with.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172955	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026172957	The Minister of Justice does not strike me as the most patient type, but I just noted in this case that the Minister of Justice took on a professional patience, and that is so quite sensible and positive. And in this case, it's very good that a vision group has been set up to continue working on this. I have actually got it out of my question, which I really wanted to do, namely focus on the issue and make it clear that something is actually being done about this, so that after having had the same kind of frame numbers since 1941 we can get a new generation of frame numbers so that more people can find their stolen bicycles again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026173032	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026173036	Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026173039	The question is closed. The next question to the Minister for Justice has been asked by Mr. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026173044	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026173047	Thank you, sir. President. How does the Minister intend to ensure the security of the citizens in relation to the police action so that it is preserved in port towns such as Hirtshals and Skagen in particular, which is only accessible from one side, namely from the road?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026173100	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026173102	As I mentioned in my answer to Question S 123, the North Jutland Police do not expect the planned structural changes to affect the response times of police circles. Response times depend on the location of the patrols on the roads and not on the location of the substations. The structural changes that are being implemented are designed to strengthen preventive and safety-building efforts within the circle. The North Jutland Police have reported that each municipality will be associated with dedicated prevention workers. They will be located at the local stations and anchored in a specialised prevention department at the main station of the circuit. North Jutland Police will introduce the use of one or more mobile police stations, which can be used locally for major events in the police circle. The station will be able to be used as necessary to ensure security, proximity and good police service. One could, for example: imagine that it will be placed in Skagen in week 29 or at the Hjallerup Market. That is a broad spectrum of tasks, I can see. The National Police Department is also setting up two new investigative communities in East and West Denmark, which will continue their special efforts to combat cross-border crime, for example. Breaking and entering. It is police work that benefits individual police circles. The investigation communities are building on the good experience of task force burglary, which has led to several sentences with significant prison sentences.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026173228	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026173229	Thank you. Thank you for your answer. I fully agree with the Minister that both Hjallerup Market and other major events are things that need to be supported. Police action may also be important. And then we come to week 29, when Skagen is invaded by people, among other things. from the Copenhagen area, and that is quite fine. But in this context the local people also say: yes, when the Copenhageners come to Skagen, we can get a police coverage, but what about the daily lives of ordinary scabbards when there are problems? So where are the police? We can also see it in relation to the ambulance emergency, because you can only get on Highway 40 to Skagen. They have the longest response times. I believe that will also apply when there is no near police station with permanent staffing in Skagen. The police have to come from somewhere else, and they're not driving around the Grenen. So where is it that this effort is supposed to come from? It's okay that it's there at special events. There is also an agreement on this in connection with the summer when Skagen's population is multiplied. It's all good, isn't it? But you want this security, and I think that Skagen Police Station is probably the one in all Denmark that has gone down mostly from more than 20 employees and a permanent police station to nothing. The Skagmen really find this difficult to understand and also the people in Hirtshals who have the same problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026173359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026173400	However, I am fully aware of and wish and politically support that Danish police should be decentralized and locally anchored. Having said that, and remembering what I am saying, that one thing is a close police station, it is really about where the patrols are going. The whole purpose of what is happening, also in North Jutland, is to strengthen the police in North Jutland, certainly not to weaken it, but to strengthen the efforts that are against burglary and violence and the like. So we must also remember that the transformation which the police are undergoing is not only due to centralisation but also to the changing nature of the crime scene.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026173443	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026173444	Thank you. I think the minister has a good sense of direction, but, you know, north of Hirtshals and north of Skagen, there are no police patrols. They all come from the south, and therefore it is difficult to cover such an area in relation to getting wagons forward quickly. That is why we know that response times are getting longer, and that is why it is so important that the efforts and the security that the citizens are calling for are restored. We can see that nothing is happening in this area. There is no report on the police school, so I ask again: what about the close-up?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026173525	Thank you. It is not only the response times that are getting longer; it is also the speaking time. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026173528	But look, that's kind of what I was trying to answer before. What is expected is that the planned structural changes that have been implemented will have no impact on the response times of the police. In other words, regardless of how geography is, if it is about saying that the response times are at least the same as they are now, then that must be the starting point. And that's what I'm gonna say to Mr. Knox. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026173604	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026173604-2	Yes, and now we know from the ambulance emergency that if an ambulance leaves Skagen, you're moving another ambulance to e.g. Ålbæk or somewhere else in the area to quickly put it in. In all that the Minister has said, there is no response at all to it. There might as well be a police car in Frederikshavn or in Brønderslev or anywhere else. That's why we can see when we look at this pattern that the response times are getting longer. But I understand that the Minister is saying that he will ensure security. The response times will be the same, no matter what you lay down. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026173641	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026173642	Response times will be the same, yes. That is what the North Jutland Police Department says, and I have full confidence in that. I would say, then, in relation to the closure of the near police station in Hirtshals, that we are talking here about a temporary closure, which took place in the spring in an overall priority of resources for the entire police force's action against forced entry, because it was precisely considered that the fight against burglary should be significantly strengthened. And apparently it has had an effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026173711	The question is over. We thank the questioner and the Minister of Justice. We move on to Question 28. This is for the Minister for Health and the Elderly by Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026173721	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026173724	Thank you very much. What is the Minister's view that the majority of the Ethics Council believes that the Danish Health Authority, like doctors, should be required to inform loyally and fairly about participation in screening programmes, vaccination programmes and the like. ?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026173738	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026173739	Thank you for the question. As I understand it, it is about whether to legislate on health authorities' information in relation to actions towards citizens. And let me first state quite clearly that, yes, I believe that the Danish Health Authority must always inform loyally and fairly. This also applies, of course, to actions that are targeted at citizens. It is clear from the authority's responsibility, which I expect the Danish Health Service to lift. In addition, the responsibility of the same authority applies to all health authorities responsible for initiatives against citizens, such as the regions and municipalities of the country. I fully agree with the Ethnic Council that a reflected position is a very good ideal, even in relation to health interventions aimed at citizens, when the consistency and importance of intervention can be equated with treatment. I also fully agree with the Council that there must be a concrete and thorough balance between, among other things. public health and self-determination when deciding how to organise a health effort. However, like the President of the Ethnic Council, I do not think it is the way forward to legislate on that balance. If we know that every year we can save hundreds of lives from cancer, health care should also have the freedom to promote participation among those who cannot or do not want to get involved in the matter. That is what I said in Jyllands-Posten on 12 October, and I believe that too today. But that does not, of course, change the fact that health authorities have to inform citizens of the benefits and risks in a good and nuanced way. For example, when the Ethical Council on the HPV vaccination programme announces that the elements of the programme provide overall a good basis for a reflected opinion and the advice on the information booklet on the HPV vaccination concludes that it sums up... comprehensive information on the side effects and uncertainties experienced in vaccinations, then I think that the HPV vaccination programme is an example of how the health authorities are able to balance both citizens' self-determination and public health without legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026173952	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026173953	What the Council is saying is that this is a balance between the ethical aspects of what we have to take into account. Is it general public health, or is it the individual? I think that is a very good debate to take, so I am very pleased that the Ethics Council has taken it up. After all, it is always a balance between risking some side effects in order to strengthen general public health. What the Ethical Council is saying is that there is no legislation, and the question is whether it can be clarified more, so as to ensure that there is the confidence that is required of the individual that one is properly guided.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174030	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174031	I agree that the debate is very important, also that we have it here in the Folketing between each other as parties. What the Ethnic Council points out in its opinion is that there must be a concrete and thorough balance between, among other things. Public health and self-determination when it comes to deciding how to organise a health effort. I fully agree with that, but at the same time I also agree with the President-in-Office of the Ethnic Council, who points out that he does not believe that legislation in this area is the way forward. And one of the arguments used by the President is that legislative clarification for individual reasons can stand in the way of actions which can be for the good of both society and the individual. But, of course, the authorities must ensure that information is provided correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174119	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174120	But that means that information can then be withheld for the individual if it serves the masses. That's what the minister says. There are different views in the Ethnic Council, and that is what is so interesting, namely that this is discussed among Members. And where you fall short is, of course, that if you refrain from informing about side effects or risks, you lose the confidence of the people the minister himself mentioned in connection with the HPV vaccinations and you lose someone who doesn't dare because they have been provided with some information.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174156	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174157	Well, this isn't about withholding any information from anyone. It is a matter of course that the benefits and risks must be disclosed to the citizens in a good and nuanced manner. And that is the responsibility which, of course, I expect all health authorities in Denmark as well as municipalities and regions to be aware of the fact that it is loyal and accurate information. As regards the HPV vaccination, which the questioner is raising as an example, I think it illustrates that this is in fact one of the areas where the Ethics Council says that they think they are able to balance those considerations in a very good way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174236	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174237	It's taken a couple of years, too. However, where I would like to go is whether we should ensure that the right information is provided. And there I would like to hear from the Minister for Health whether the Minister thinks that the Danish Health Service has done the right thing in relation to the guidelines and information provided, both in screening programmes and vaccination programmes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174257	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174258	Health authorities must always endeavour to provide good and nuanced information, and this is not the same thing as the fact that this information is static, understood in such a way that it cannot constantly improve. And the responsibility for constantly improving its information efforts is my expectation that all health authorities will live up to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174316	Question 28 is finished, but we will continue to Question 29. It is again for the Minister for Health and the elderly and also for Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174317	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174327	Does the Minister believe that the Danish Health Service informs fairly when they state in the intestinal screening programme that you have 25 per cent. reduced risk, given that it really conceals the fact that one reduces one's risk of dying from intestinal cancer by approx. 0.1 percentage points?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174341	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174342	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt for her question. As I understand the question, this is one of the examples used by the Ethical Council to illustrate their so-called ethical checklist, namely an extract from the old information booklet of the Danish Health Authority on the offer of screening for thick and rectum cancer. The health authority's well-marked previous information material showed, among other things, that persons participating in the screening study reduce their risk of dying from intestinal cancer by 25%. I would like to admit that the use of relative figures, which we are talking about here, is not always one of the easiest ways to produce things, and for some it can also be seen as misleading. I understand that there has also been an increasing recognition of this in the Danish Health Authority, and if we look at the information booklet from the Danish Health Authority which is sent to citizens today when they are invited to intestinal cancer screening, we see that the passage with the relative numbers is no longer included, and thus they no longer appear from the material. So the Danish Health Authority has revised the information booklet on intestinal cancer screening, and it is to me a very good example that there is increased attention among health authorities also to ensuring citizens balanced information and constantly working on how we can develop our information efforts so that it is precisely balanced. In conclusion, I would like to stress, as I also mentioned in my previous reply, that I think it is really important for health authorities to inform loyally and fairly about the initiatives and actions targeted at citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174522	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174525	The minister says loyally and fairly and balanced information and takes a position that now there is a new pamphlet that should be true. But the Ethical Council also says that it says that the beneficial effects of intestinal screening are produced with 10 years of participation, while the disadvantages are produced with participation in a round. Is that fair? Is that loyal?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174548	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174551	It is quite true that I think it is important that the Danish Health Authority and other health authorities inform loyally and fairly. The Danish Health Authority's new booklet explicitly states when the figures cover a five-year period, a ten-year period and a single screening round. According to the Danish Health Authority, the Danish Agency has just calculated the drawbacks of participating in a screening round in order to give the individual citizen a better chance to understand the consequences of accepting the invitation to the given screening round. I assume that the Danish Health Authority is very aware of the debate which the Ethical Council's opinion has also led to and that the Danish Health Authority will take stock of it in its further work on informing citizens in a balanced way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174636	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174637	The members of the Ethnic Council are all academics with long education behind them. If the Ethical Council does not understand what is in a booklet that the Minister of Health believes is loyal and sincere, how can an ordinary citizen understand what is in a booklet on the risks and disadvantages and advantages of screening?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174700	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174702	I have no knowledge of the length or content of training for members of the Ethics Council at all. What is crucial to me as Minister for Health is that the health authorities, in providing information to citizens in a balanced way, set out the advantages, disadvantages and risks involved in accepting a given offer. I think that is actually a good way to do that, but it is not the same as saying that everything is perfect and that we do not have to keep working with this information effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174735	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174737	I hope, then, that we will work to make it more understandable. If the Ethical Council thinks there are some problems, I also think that the ordinary Dane will have difficulty understanding it. I think that the most important thing is that we have confidence in the Health Board which is to advise us. I would like to know whether the Minister will not work to ensure that we have a Health Board which can inform, as the Minister himself says, loyally and in a balanced and secure manner, so that we have confidence in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174806	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174807	Firstly, I have full confidence in the Danish Health Authority, and secondly, I believe that we also have a Health Authority today which informs us in a loyal and balanced way. Is that the same as saying that the health service's information efforts can never ever get any better? No. Of course, we have to work on this on a regular basis, and that is why I am also assuming that we in the Danish Health Service are naturally aware of the debate which the Ethical Council's statements have led to. It is, of course, positive that the statements of the Ethics Council help us to have the debate here in the Danish Parliament to ensure that citizens are given the best possible information.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174844	We say thank you. Question 29 is finished. We shall proceed to Question 30. It's still for the Minister for Health and the Elderly, but now it's by Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174852	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174855	Thank you very much. Does the Minister believe that her party colleague, the Left's leading candidate in the North Jutland Region, Lone Sondrup, is wrong and, if so, why, when Lone Sondrup states on 30 June of this year to Nordjyske, that the regions are working very well, and I would really call on my own party to stop all talk about resignation, and that the proposal to disarm people's insecurity among employees and partners, and the proposal to decommission them, can at least not be based on a fairly thorough knowledge of how effective the regions are in 2016 to solve their many tasks?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174935	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026174935-2	Thank you very much for the question which comes after we have also spent two hours together discussing the matter in consultation with the Committee on Health last week. That is why, of course, I hope that Flemming Møller Mortensen does not expect me to join Parliament today with some new answers. Because then I must at least disappoint the questioner. The answers aren't new, they're the same as they were last week. Both I and the government have great expectations and hopes of the regions, and I think that the actions of the government over the last year bear witness to this. As the questioner knows, we have lifted health care, secured an extra boost of 2.4 billion. kr. here in 2016 alone, more than what the Social Democrats were up to when they sat in government. And together with the municipalities and the regions, we have with us, among other things. based on the left's pointers for the regions, which we formulated before the elections, jointly set eight ambitious and binding national targets in order to strengthen the quality of health care. This is also the first time we have managed to establish a common direction together, and we have given priority to resources so that the objectives can be achieved. Now, of course, it is also about ensuring that it is delivered, and I would like to make it clear once again that I think that in many ways the regions have done very well in the health field since they came into the world in 2007. I agree with Lone Sondrup on that. Very much agree. However, this is not the same as saying that there are no further challenges for our healthcare system. We can see, for example, the great geographical inequality we have in Denmark when it comes to treatment. This applies, of course, both to inequality in relation to waiting times and thus to the possibility of being treated in a timely manner, and to the quality of the treatment received as a citizen. I do not think it is good enough that there are such great differences as there are today in our small country, after all. I do not think we can be familiar with patients. That is why we must work to ensure an increased level of equality in our health services. Because I believe that all patients should, of course, have a legitimate expectation of getting a high quality of care every time and without undue waiting time and thus also that they are guaranteed high quality treatment regardless of their postal code as a citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026175156	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026175157	Thank you very much. It is true, as the Minister says, that this was also discussed here last week, on 18 October. But the reason why I take it in the Chamber is that I did not quite think I got as clear an answer as I would have liked when I called for the open consultation. What the health minister's party colleague Lone Sondrup says is that it creates insecurity when the government and the ruling party of the Left continue to talk about and continue to say that there must be some demands, and that is the ultimate requirement, and if they are not, as it were, then there is a risk of decommissioning. The Minister does not answer me here either, whether the Minister agrees with Lone Sondrup that this constant, repeated talk creates insecurity, as it is said among employees and collaborators. That is why I ask the question again: does the Minister believe that the demand made by the Left to abolish the regions, if they do not meet seven requirements laid down, can create an insecurity which is unfavorable, as Lone Sondrup is also quoted in Northern Jutland as having said?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026175308	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026175309	Well, I think the rapporteur was given some clear answers. But perhaps the rapporteur did not get the answers that the rapporteur had hoped for politically, and I do not have them with the rapporteur today either. Like the rapporteur, I do not think it is right to say that we continue to talk about decommissioning and requirements for the regions. Well, last time I checked, it was pretty much just sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, who talked about it and kept bringing it up. Therefore, I would very much like to make it clear once again that I believe that in many ways the regions have done very well in the field of health since they came into the world in 2007. I totally agree with Lone Sondrup on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026175349	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026175351	It is therefore the case that the Left said before the elections: that is why the regions are now given one more chance to prove that they can raise quality. So there's a threat hanging. It was the current parliamentary term, and it will expire if the government is maintained for as long as possible, that is until 2019. Then there is no certainty that the regions exist, and it seems that the Left's leading candidate in the North Jutland Region is completely unfair conditions to confront the regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026175432	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026175433	I can deny that there is any threat hanging. On the other hand, there are some high expectations of our regions, which I think it has done very well in many ways. The Left itself has put them in the world, while the Socialists were at that time opposed and said that we should just preserve the 14 counties that we had at that time. We did not think this was good enough because we wanted to raise the quality of our healthcare to new heights, ensuring that citizens had access to better health provision of a higher quality. So there are no threats, but on the contrary there are high expectations and high hopes for our regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026175507	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026175508	The minister says there are no threats, but only expectations. I must therefore just draw attention to what the Left wrote just over a year ago and I quote: if, after this parliamentary term, the regions are not able to raise the quality of Danish health care to a new level of world class, others must assume that task. Quote out. Is it not a threat to the regions that others will have to take on the task if the demands and threats of the Left have not been met?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026175544	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026175545	I would like to repeat that I have great faith in the regions and I do not really see how, in good faith, we can interpret what I say quite differently. As I said, I expect the regions to deliver. It is sometimes thought that the questioner has an expectation of the opposite, i.e. that the regions are not in a position to deliver.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026175608	That was the end of Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European We shall continue with Question No 1 by Mr de la Malène and others. 31, and it's for the Minister of Health and the elderly, and that's Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026175617	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026175620	Thank you. Will the Minister abolish the North Jutland Region if, at the end of this parliamentary term, we find ourselves in a situation where the North Jutland Region is worse than the other four regions on the seven demands made by the Left during the last election campaign?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026175634	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026175635	The Government has no expectation that the North Jutland Region will be worse than the other four regions at the end of this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026175646	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026175647	Thank you very much. I have to say that there is a very good connection between the answers given by the Minister in the last question and this question. For what is very clear to me now, and also clearer than what came out when we had the consultation last week, is that there is by no means any agreement between what the Left said before the elections and what they are saying today. For it is clear in the written statement by the Left before the elections that the regions will now have one more chance by 2019 to carry out the task and otherwise the regions will be closed down. That is why I have to ask again, because I asked the question many times in the consultation last week, and so did my colleague Astrid Krag: is there, Minister for Health, a risk that the Left, if a region does not meet the requirements of the Left, which by the way is very, very elastic, and it is only the will of the Left that decides whether any region has met the requirements that closes it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026175805	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026175806	First of all, it is good that there is a good connection rather than if there was a loose connection. As I said, I have great faith in the regions, also in the North Jutland Region, and that is also why I cannot see how, in good faith, it can be interpreted differently from what I am saying here today. We have no expectation from the government that the Nordjylland partout region will do worse than the other four regions. But one might almost suspect that the Social Democratic MP from the North Jutland Region has the expectation since the premise of the question is constantly based on the fact that at the end of this parliamentary term the North Jutland Region should be doing worse than all the others.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026175853	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026175854	I could also have chosen another region, I could have chosen Region Sjælland. For it is the two smallest regions, and it is regions that have some challenges in terms of recruitment and retention, for example, of doctors. Doctors are very important in providing high quality healthcare, which is why I have been based in the Region of North Jutland. But the Minister for Health is trying to explain away that before the elections the Left made a very, very concrete statement, which is that if you do not live up to expectations, to the expectations of the Left, then there are others who have to take over, and that is why I would like to ask once again: is there a risk that in one or two regions there will be shut down and shut down because they do not meet the requirements?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026175939	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026175940	Firstly, I am fully committed to what the Left has said before the elections. But we also recognise, of course, that in Denmark there are some different prerequisites for, for example, recruiting doctors for the different parts of the country. That is also the reason why we have taken this so seriously and set up a medical coverage committee so that we could deal with the problems which, among other things, have arisen. Nordjylland and Sjælland have with the recruitment and retention of doctors. But I just have to say to Mr. Knox. Flemming Møller Mortensen, that geography doesn't mean everything, and I sometimes find it a shame how Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen is busy talking Region Nordjylland and Region Sjælland into a large black hole. If all this depended on geography, can the rapporteur explain to me why the Region of North Jutland in 2011 could have the country's shortest waiting times and in 2015 the country's longest?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180028	Thank you. It is a good debate that is here, but there are also some speaking times to be observed, so I would ask you to look down on the small screen that is in front of you. We're going to the last round, and that's sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180037	Thank you. No, I'm not talking any regions into a black hole. I just really want there to be a long-term approach and that all five regions have the opportunity to plan long-term planning, and here I think the government and the Left are making a mistake, and so is the Left's leading candidate in the North Jutland Region, i.e. when the Left keeps talking about closing the regions and the regions are not doing it well enough. That is why I would like to say to the Minister for Health: no one from the Socialists is talking the regions down. Like Lone Sondrup, the leading candidate in the North Jutland Region, I think that the regions are doing very well. I know how they have different challenges, but I have to confront the Minister for Health and the Left with the question: is one willing to close a region or two if they do not meet the seven requirements?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180124	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180125	First of all, it is a good thing that the President thinks we have a good debate after all. Secondly, I have to make it clear that, of course, all regions have the opportunity to plan long-term plans, and I would also like to make it clear once again that I very much agree with the leading candidate of the Left, Lone Sondrup, that the regions have done very well in many ways in the field of health since they came into the world in 2007. We ourselves have invented the regions, and I do not think it is unnatural that at the same time we also have high expectations of those who administer our hospital and health care, and that we must ensure that all citizens, whether they live in North Jutland or North Zealand, have access to a treatment of high professional quality, regardless of their postal code.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180203	The question is over and we thank the Minister for Health and the elderly. By agreement we now jump to Question 34 to the Minister for the Environment and Food of Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180213	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180216	Thank you for that, President. I read the question out loud: Does the Minister share the concerns of local politicians about the sale of the refinery and the gas terminal at the Port of Fredericia to the newly founded Danish Oil Company as described in the Local newspaper Fredericia on 11 October 2016?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180231	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180232	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the author. First of all, let me stress that it is very important to the government that Danish companies run their business environmentally securely, which is why I am also pleased that this issue is raised in the Folketing by Mrs Susanne Eilersen. In relation to the specific case, A/S Dansk Shell operates a refinery and a port terminal in Fredericia. The port terminal is used for the discharge of both North Sea crude oil and refined refinery products. Now A/S Dansk Shell is in front of a sale of the refinery and port terminal to the newly founded Danish Oil Company. The sale is not yet final. The Danish Environmental Protection Agency is the environmental authority for A/S Dansk Shell, both in terms of environmental and risk conditions, and I have confidence in the Danish Environmental Protection Agency's performance of this task, also with regard to any new owners. In addition, it is also worth noting that it follows from the Environmental Protection Act that the responsibility for complying with the requirements and requirements for registrations already submitted by the Danish EPA to A/S Dansk Shell is extended to the new owner in the sale.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180344	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180345	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Now, according to the newspaper, this is a relatively newly created company, which was formed two months ago, and a company whose own funds 14 days before the purchase were only DKK 50,000, rising to DKK 10 million. kr. Now and here, and we can see that Fredericia already has an environmental case going on towards A/S Dansk Shell about pollution on Østerstrand, a matter that we do not yet fully know the extent of. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister who has the environmental ape and whether the Minister can guarantee the citizens of Fredericia that we will not see the same horror scenarios as in the case of Kærgård Plantage, if the Danish Oil Company closes or goes bankrupt.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180432	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180432-2	Thank you, President, and thank you for that follow-up question. The Danish Environmental Protection Agency has informed me that no one in the top management of the newly founded Danish Oil Company is registered as a manager and board of directors who are unfit to operate polluting activities in Denmark, and this is consistent with Articles 40 A and 40 B of the Danish Environmental Protection Act. There is therefore no reason why the new owners should not be able to operate the company in an environmentally sound manner. Then it is the board that does control and the like at all times, as you know from the current setup, and that is why I am of course comforted by the situation that is around the company.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180516	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180517	But now it is the case that in the past, as I also mentioned in relation to Kærgaard Plantage, we have seen that if companies go bankrupt, there is suddenly some monkey-throwing about this environment and, as I said, there is already an environmental matter at the port of Fredericia. I know, after talking to both former employees and current employees, there is also a lot of pollution out there at the Shell Refinaderiet. We have also asked the owner about the environmental aspects, but he is awaiting the Competition Authority's reply before he will say anything. Now we have heard earlier from the Minister for Business and Growth that the Competition Authority is not at all aware of this, so we are somewhat concerned about who can stand with the environmental.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180557	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180558	Thank you, President. And also thank you for this follow-up question. It is the case that for newer waste or pollution after 1 January 2001, the Danish Environmental Protection Agency has issued orders under the Danish Soil Pollution Act to A/S Dansk Shell in a number of cases, and A/S Dansk Shell is in the process of complying with those instructions. It is clear from the Soil Pollution Act that commands concerning newer pollutions are binding on a later operator, that is to say, a new owner, if they knew or ought to know upon acquisition that injunctions were notified or announced. As a starting point, therefore, responsibility goes on to the new owners.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180638	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180639	We are, in fact, well aware of the fact that responsibility goes further. But what I hear the Minister say here is that the Minister is confident that the environmental obligation will be respected in relation to Fredericia's citizens if the new company takes over A/S Dansk Shell. That is what I hear the Minister say.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180703	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for the last follow-up remark. Yes, I am with the things that are enlightened to me. And it is clear that we have a task in following things to the door, and of course the board will do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180717	The question is closed. We move on to question 35 and it remains for the Minister for the Environment and Food, but now it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180726	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180728	Thank you for that, President. Does the Minister consider it appropriate that only one complaint from a homeowner can stop a coastal protection project involving several municipalities and half a thousand homeowners, with the consequence that the next storm season could lead to new storm damage for the affected homeowners?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180743	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180744	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the author for raising this issue. I fully understand that citizens in areas threatened by flooding want rapid administration so that they can start protecting their houses. We have also seen this in the current case at Roskilde Fjord. The work of municipalities with comprehensive solutions for coastal protection should not be hampered by unnecessarily heavy processes, and so I will shortly be putting forward a legislative proposal to simplify the process. In the bill, the government proposes, among other things, that the right of appeal should be brought together to the time when the municipality has finally decided and that the municipalities should be given more freedom to organise such processes themselves. These are regulatory simplifications which the municipalities themselves have also wanted. With the amendment of the law, we will therefore avoid complaints about the municipalities' sub-decisions, while citizens still have the legal certainty that they can complain about the decision to an independent board. When a citizen complains about the municipality's decision, it must also be possible to take a decision on the matter within a reasonable period of time, and we will also implement a number of new initiatives in relation to the new board, the House of Names, in Viborg under the Ministry of Business and Growth. This is to reduce the matter in the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board. Because this is something that concerns the government, and I know it is something that concerns the questioner. We do not want people to live in insecurity when the country hits winter storms, but we must also be honest and say that we live in a democratic country with complaints and the like. That is what we are changing some things in so that things can slip better, because the few should not be able to take the many as hostages.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180922	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026180923	Thank you so much for your answer. I am also pleased to hear that the government and the Minister are taking the initiative to simplify some processes. When I ask, it is of course based on a case about Roskilde, but there are also other cases, among others. in Slagelse, where very few complaints can have a suspensive effect and where, despite the Minister's intervention, we might call it, we still have to wait six months to get a decision on what I consider to be procedural complaints. It is very worrying when people are at the same time in a situation where they know that now comes the autumn storms and that it is now that the problems arise. But I am glad that the Minister is taking the initiative. I hope, then, that the initiative will also mean that we must always be allowed to complain, but that there must be some relevance and that the time for the proceedings will be as short as possible. I hope the Minister can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026181022	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026181023	Thank you for that, President, and also thank you for the follow-up question. I can confirm that. Because what we are all concerned with, whether we sit as citizens in a situation where we may be threatened by rising water levels or storms, or we sit here as legislators or ministers, is that our citizens are safe in their housing situation. Now we have had a setup until now, where there have been certain complaints. There has also been a practice in which not all places have been able to make holistic solutions where everyone could be brought in. We are now doing this with the new coastal analysis, which is leading to an even more proactive work by the Coastal Directorate and by the municipalities, so that we get some holistic solutions done so that the very few do not sit and block the many. This is important, and I am very concerned about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026181111	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026181112	It is a very good thing that something is being done, but one can say that there are situations we are in now, both at Roskilde Fjord, but also in Slagelse there are probably other places in the country • where people are going for a winter and have to wait, not only this winter, but possibly also next winter, because there are more complaints. Does the Minister have a solution for these citizens? Because I actually find it problematic that they are now meeting a winter where it can be difficult to sleep at night, because if there is a storm, you don't know what you're gonna wake up to. In fact, I find that worrying. I am sorry that so long has to be allowed for these citizens, most of whom have just tried to find a common solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026181155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026181159	Thank you for that, President. I am also very upset, and that is why the system we have had so far has not been appropriate when we can have these long complaints. I think I have been informed at some point that some of the cases that have gone the longest have run up to ten years. It is, of course, highly unsatisfactory for those who have actively advocated a positive solution to a problem. It is my hope that with a renewed review of complaints and what we are proposing in the Danish Parliament, as well as with new initiatives between municipalities and the Coastal Directorate and citizens, we will have a better setup for the future. Then it is clear that the citizens who are in a situation now that they can fear the winter are not helping in the short run because they are in the old system and there we have not changed the rules yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026181238	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026181240	It is also quite good that something is happening. I think that the challenge we are facing in here is that right now we have an old system, where there are all these complaints and complaints, and where the citizens are sitting out by fjords, by water, by sea and can just wait and hope that there will be no disaster until we have made the rules. Is there an opportunity to make this process faster in some way, so that these people have an opportunity to secure their properties?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026181314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026181315	Thank you for that, President. As I am informed, the Nature and Environment Complaints Board will give priority to the handling of complaints, which is, of course, welcome. And what a Nature and Environmental Complaints Board can do is to consider how many people are involved in a case; is there anything that should take precedence and have faster treatment than anything else? I have been informed that the Nature and Environment Complaints Board gives priority to the handling of complaints, and I hope that will have a positive effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026181344	The question is closed. We will continue with the same debater on Question 36, which is for the Minister for the Environment and Food. Then it's Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026181352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026181353	Thank you. Does the Minister agree with the government's own coastal analysis, and what does the Minister think should be done to support municipal coastal protection projects?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026181407	Thank you for the question. Yes, I very much agree with the intentions of the coastal analysis, namely that we need to act more actively in interaction with citizens and municipalities in order to have better overall solutions. I very much agree with the idea that is also expressed in the coastal analysis: we need to have some good ways of dealing with coastal protection in some places with sand-feeding; in other places we need tough coastal protection. But what is so important, and which many citizens do not always think about, because they are not technical specialists in the field of coastal protection, is that if you do not have an overall plan, the tough coast protection, in other words, in the form of granite or other hard materials, will result in a problem being moved further up the coast or, in the case of a misstructure, the coast actually erodes, and so only worse has been done. That is why I am very concerned that we in the Coastal Directorate are being given good guidance to municipalities and citizens about real protection, and then it is the clear position of the government that it is important that we are active in this area because people should not live in fear of what is going to happen to their property and the like. Then there are some basic prefaces that have been invoked in the Coast Directorate's way of settling cases with regard to the protection of natural areas versus, for example, property, i.e. buildings and the like. This is one of the things you can then decide on what to look like in the future, if you think there should be another principle, also in terms of year, i.e. when to make bets, in relation to how long it takes before a house gets too close to a cliff, etc. etc. But basically, I think we have been given a good tool for further work, and I have also noted that it has been well received around the country, especially the fact that the Coastal Directorate has a more active role, and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026181602	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026181603	Well, now it's no secret that when I read the coastal analysis, I thought it wasn't worth the paper it was written on, because there was nothing new in it, I thought. I think that all of us who have been dealing with coastal protection, at least for a number of years, know very well where the houses fall into the sea. We know very well where the problems are and where there are floods. That is why I personally was very disappointed with the coastal analysis. Some of what puzzles me and some of what I would like to ask the Minister is whether there is an opening in relation to the way in which the coast can be secured. When I ask, it is because there are a great many people who have asked for and applied for permission to make tough coastal protection, but who have been denied by the Coast Directorate with the explanatory statement that nature should go its way or whatever. Thus they have seen their houses fall into the sea. This does not mean that you do not necessarily need sand-feeding in some places, but there is a difference between the coasts. That's one thing. The other thing is that there's a historical thing about this coast protection, namely that the entire west coast of Jutland gets about 90 million. kr. per year for sand feeding. The same problem actually exists in North Zealand according to the coastal analysis, but the residents there do not get any money. Why not? And do you open up the possibility that they might also be able to get money in Northern Zealand?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026181727	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026181728	Thank you for that, President. Thank you to the questioner for the two questions. There is no doubt that the government is of the opinion that tough coastal protection should be applied and I follow very closely how decisions are made in relation to that practice. Because the government is concerned that people who have property that is at risk of falling into the sea or the like have the opportunity to make tough coastal protection as well, but of course according to some kind of overall plan, so that, as I said in the first answer I gave, no problems or erosion of the coast are transported. On the second question, that is, in relation to payment, there are some historical reasons why the system is as it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026181806	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026181808	It's incredibly annoying, it is, with the short time, isn't it? We could talk about it at length. I had hoped that the coastal analysis would have been more, what can be said to be solution-oriented rather than just outline the problems we all know where is. Unfortunately, it is not. I am also aware that the Coast Directorate has some information meetings around the Danish country so that people who have this problem in life can come to those meetings and get some guidance. That's really nice, too. But what I am glad to hear is that the Minister is saying that there will be a possibility of tough coastal protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026181849	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026181850	Thank you for that, President. Yes, there is, and there is, especially where we can have holistic solutions with citizens and municipalities and where we do not destroy, erode coasts and the like. Then I would like to say to the questioner: the coastal analysis is descriptive in the way the questioner also refers to. What is our task politically is to act in the direction we want it to be. Now we have a basis to work on... I think that's good. In advance, of course, we must so politically manage what we want the coast protection to be like. And in 2018 we will have to negotiate a new agreement on coastal protection, and there will be some of these elements as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026181932	We go to the last round in 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026181935	My last comment should then just be: the Danish People's Party voted against the Coast Protection Act back in 2006, I think it was if I remember correctly. I hope that there will be some negotiations so that we can have some holistic solutions. I also hope that we will get some solutions where things are going fast so that we can help the people who are actually affected by this out there in the Danish country, and it is everywhere in Denmark that we see it. So I hope that the Minister will invite us to do so and that we will have the coastal protection law put in place so that the purpose is the most important and not the concerns.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026182011	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026182012	Thank you, President, and also thank you to the author for addressing the last issue. It is, of course, a legitimate political view to have, which will of course be included in the discussions we are going to have, but I would like to say that for the government it is important that citizens can live in security in their homes. Then there are some historical reasons around the country, where citizens have seen a coast erode and where there are various reasons why you do not make coast protection and the like it is something called history. Our task, together with those parties in the Folketing who want to participate in it, is to ensure how we get these tasks done forward-looking and to decide which considerations should weigh the most. I have also said that the government is concerned about this when it comes to negotiating.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026182051	The question is closed. Thank you to the Minister for the Environment and Food. Then, by agreement, we go back to item 32 of the agenda and that is a question for the tax minister by Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026182101	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026182104	Thank you. How does the Minister consider that the closure of SKAT's centres in Korsør and Holbæk supports the government's plan •Better balance • State jobs closer to citizens and businesses?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026182115	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026182116	Thank you, and thank you to the questioner for the flexibility and to the President for allowing it, and also thank you for the question. After all, the government has put forward a plan in which we relocate almost 4,000 state jobs, some of them. to Korsør and Holbæk. And it is an historic plan that I am, of course, proud, together with the government, that we have put forward and that we are implementing, and it is actually going well with it. However, this is the case, and that is what the questioner is asking about the previous government's decision to bring the existing tax centres together into larger units to ensure greater professional environments and to support efficient operation. It simply came to the conclusion that a tax centre had to have a critical mass at a few hundred jobs so that it was as efficient to operate as possible and there was a strong professional environment to attract new qualified employees. That was the background to the previous government's localization plan. At the same time, however, it was also desired that the tax administration should be present throughout the country, and therefore the previous government decided that the tax centres in Holbæk and Korsør should be closed in the long term and that the majority of the jobs should move to SKAT's existing tax centres in Roskilde, Næstved and Høje Taastrup. I would like to reiterate that I want, and the government wants, a Denmark in which the state jobs are distributed throughout the country, and that is why it is positive that the majority of these jobs moving from Korsør and Holbæk in the area of SKAT as a result of the previous government's decision, then move to other parts of the Region of Zealand. You can also see, when you look at the plan put forward by the government, that, overall, there are a number of jobs that will move to, among others. Holbæk and Korsør are among other things. Denmark's Evaluation Institute, Denmark's Accreditation Institution and Danida Fellowship Centre, which move to Holbæk, and Korsør will benefit from the Danish Maritime Authority. That is why it is an expression of a Denmark in balance with the plan put forward by the government, despite the fact that the previous government decided that the tax centres in Korsør and Holbæk should close in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026182326	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026182327	First of all, I would like to acknowledge that the government has chosen to reverse developments, if I may say so, in relation to state jobs. But when you close these state jobs in Holbæk and Korsør, you cancel out the otherwise positive effect that was in the process of relocating these jobs, among other things. The Maritime Authority to Korsør and these jobs in the field of education to Holbæk. And then a new balance has not been achieved, so the existing balance has simply been maintained, at least in relation to the old county of West Zealand, which in this way has not really taken part in this new relocation, when at the same time you choose to eliminate other jobs. So will the Minister elaborate a little on how to achieve a better balance for an area like the old county of West Zealand when moving jobs to Roskilde, which is literally on the border with the Capital Region?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026182430	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026182431	So, overall, it is the case that with the decision of the previous government I think it was under Mr. Morten Østergaard as tax minister, that is, a radical tax minister, was adopted this localization plan. It means that in 2020 • not soon, but in 2020 • there will be a tax centre in Korsør with 86 employees, and in Holbæk there will be 46 leaving in 2020. With the better balance plan that the government has made, we move 191 new jobs to Korsør and 136 jobs to Holbæk. And that means that there is a net gain for Korsør of 105 and for Holbæk of 90. I fully understand that the questioner would like us to reverse the decision of the previous government, but that has not been possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026182514	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026182515	After all, nothing is impossible for anyone who carries the will in his heart, one can say. Then I would just like to address the Minister's party colleague and member of parliament, Mr. Marcus Knuth's statements on 21 August 2015: It doesn't make sense to close the tax centres in Korsør and Holbæk and at the same time start moving other state jobs out. Is that the case, sir? Marcus Knuth is out to say some nonsense to Danmarks Radio here, or the Minister acknowledges the statement made by Mr. Marcus Knuth coming with you?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026182550	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026182551	Well, sir. Marcus Knuth is an excellent Leftman and does good for the party. And, of course, he is working to ensure that there can be as many state jobs as possible in the area he now represents. So I fully understand the point of view. However, it has just not been possible for the government to reverse all the decisions taken by the previous government, even in the area of SKAT, when it comes to the location plan. If we first started rolling back the localization plan in Holbæk and Korsør, as the questioner would like to do, and I have full respect for that, there would be pressure for the same to happen elsewhere. And unfortunately that is not economically and practically possible with the framework that the SKAT has.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026182628	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026182629	I find it difficult to understand how it cannot be practical with the framework that the SKAT has, because it is not the case that the SKAT has relocated the locations yet. And with the Government's desire to expand the number of employees in the SKAT, there should be an opportunity to maintain the locations that are now in place. And if you really wanted a Denmark in a better balance, it was no problem that elsewhere in the country you had the same wish, because then you could just get even better balance in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026182701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026182702	In other words, we want a better balance for Denmark, but we also want efficient public and state operations. This is particularly true of the tax administration, because when SKAT gets so much of the taxpayers' money in, we must also spend it effectively. This means that a tax centre, in order to run it efficiently and with a good professional environment, must have a certain size. That is why we need to reduce the number of tax centres. The previous government then decided to do so, and if I roll back the reduction not only in Holbæk and Korsør, but in general we get a tax administration that is not operated as well as it could. And I think that's too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026182738	The question is closed. We move on to the next question. It's still for the tax minister, but now by Mr. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026182742	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026182746	Thank you. Does the Minister consider it appropriate to close the two existing tax centres in Holbæk and Korsør when recruiting 1,000 new employees in SKAT in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026182757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026182801	Thank you. And thank you for the question. I would like to acknowledge the support expressed by the Socialists for the investment plan, which is, after all, part of the Finance Act and is to be negotiated as part of the Finance Act, and in which we add 7 billion. kr. to restore SKAT, to rebuild trust, and thus to recruit 2,000 new employees by 2020. It is absolutely essential for a new, well-functioning tax system. And the plan means that, overall, there will be 1,000 more employees by 2020 than is the case today, as the questioner also says. The question then is where the 1,000 employees should be, and there is a greater analysis work going on to find out. After all, we have said this, and of course we stand by the fact that at least one of the new governments must be outside the metropolitan area, perhaps more; I would like to see that as a tax minister. And many of the new employees must be employed outside the metropolitan area, where it is easier to recruit for the tasks for which SKAT needs employees. Unfortunately, however, I cannot promise that this will lead to the maintenance of the tax centres in Korsør and in Holbæk. And that is why we have told the government and also to the many mayors who have written to me as tax minister that these new employees must be recruited around the country, but on the basis of the relocation plan decided by the former government with Morten Østergaard as tax minister back in 2013. This means that the centres that are set up must close because they are too small to have a strong professional environment and you can run them effectively will continue to close and that the new employees will then be placed in centres around the country, but in other words on the centres that you have chosen to focus on. And it is not a decision that the government is immediately proposing to change, but I fully understand that the questioner is asking about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026182953	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026182955	Thank you very much. I would also like to start by saying that I have, of course, respect for the Government's ambition to move state jobs to the province. I think it is a very ambitious plan that has been put forward. That is also why it is a little shattered in my ears when you are told that it is not possible to maintain a tax centre in actually the only part of the country where there will not be a tax centre, namely West Zealand. Every other part of the country, every other old county has its tax center. After all, it is not the case that state jobs have come from Copenhagen. After all, it is the tax administration of the six old municipalities that was left in these two places in 2005 during the VK period, which is now being removed. The minister says that there are 46 employees in Holbæk... the minister must be excused if he got a little abruptly into the discussion here... but there wasn't 46 at first. There have been over 200 employees at the tax centre in Holbæk, and there is in fact plenty of capacity to maintain that number of employees. So I really do not think that the argument that there could not be a professional environment makes much sense. Therefore, I would also like to ask the Minister a question about one of the other major tax centres, which in 2014 was planned to be located in Copenhagen, i.e. to gather the addresses of SKAT in Copenhagen. It was supposed to be completed in 2016, i.e. this year, but I have been told by people working in SKAT that it is not in place, i.e. that there is no address and overall plan for how to bring together these employees who are in Copenhagen. Maybe they're wrong. It may be that they are not properly informed, so I now ask the Minister: if you do not have a plan for where the employees should be, why do you not actually use the premises that you have quite close to and where there is room for at least 200 employees on each of them? But first of all, I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm or deny whether you have a single office for all the employees who are going to be in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026183156	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026183158	Thank you for the question. I think that at some point there have been reflections and I am not exactly familiar with the idea of building news for SKAT in Copenhagen. I have said that as Minister for Taxation, and I stand by the fact that it is not being discussed. So, SKAT is going to be in the rooms that are, and we're going to relocate employees from the Copenhagen locations to the rest of the country. That's the way it is. So that's not gonna change. I would just like to say to the questioner that it is true that there are no locations in the old county of West Zealand, but inside the region of Zealand, of which the county of West Zealand is now part, there will still be tax centres in Maribo, Næstved and Roskilde. So there will also be quite large tax centres.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026183240	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026183241	Well, that's how you can make the boundaries as you like. But the essence is that the centralisation led by the Liberal Party in 2005 which brought together the tax administration with the local tax people and customs workers of the six municipalities, as there were, has now in fact been drawn even further into the way rather than using this opportunity to say that it was perhaps an opportunity to strengthen the good ambition that already exists. So I really want to hear the Minister: is there anything physically preventing you from moving into the rooms you already have?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026183321	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026183322	No, I don't know the local conditions in Korsør and in Holbæk. In some places the state owns the buildings, some places you rent them. In some places there is a long-term lease, while elsewhere there is a short-term lease. And these are some of the things that need to be looked at as part of this localization plan. But I just have to say that with the restructuring that SKAT is going through, where you build a new tax administration, among other things. with the support of Mr. Kaare Dybvad's own party, I do not think it is appropriate to throw into the air the location plan decided a few years ago and quietly have been implemented and implemented by 2020, it would create even greater uncertainty for the employees than there is today, even though I respect the wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026183401	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026183404	Thank you for that and it is also mutual. I would just like to ask the Minister, however, whether he can give a bid as to the proportion of the new employees in the SKAT to be employed in the capital region.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026183424	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026183426	The majority will have to be employed outside the Capital Region, but of course some will also have to be employed in the Capital Region. What the precise distribution is is, I cannot answer, but I am very, very happy to answer a written question, because that is of course relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026183443	We'll thank the tax minister. We move on to the last question, Question 37. It is addressed to the Minister for Employment by Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026183452	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026183454	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that veterans are refused occupational injuries for ptsd because veterans do not comply with a so-called life hazard rule, and does the Minister agree that there is no such rule in the definition of ptsd?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026183508	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026183509	Thank you for the question. May I begin by stating that the government is very concerned that we are taking good care of our veterans who have made a great effort for Denmark. It is important to me that the veterans who have been injured receive the compensation they are entitled to as soon as possible. Recent criticism has been levelled at the fact that there should have been a change in practice in the labour market insurance system, so that fewer people are recognised as an occupational injury. Among other things, it has. • the introduction of a so-called 'life risk' criterion. In this context, occupational insurance in the labour market has indicated that they have not introduced a life-threatening criterion for recognition in veterinary matters. It is not, and never has been, a condition for recognizing one's cause that one has been in danger of life. So the criticism cannot be recognized. It is true for ptsd that part of the requirement for diagnosis is that the injured person has been exposed to, and I quote, exceptional severe stress on the disaster character. It is not the same as that the person must have been exposed to the risk of life. Exceptionally severe stress on the nature of the disaster may also be situations where the injured person, for example. have witnessed executions of the civilian population, etc. The diagnosis of ptsd cannot be made if the person concerned has not been exposed to this exceptionally severe burden of disaster, regardless of his symptoms. These are the conditions arising from the international requirements to diagnose ptsd laid down by the World Health Organisation and which are the basis for their assessments in the specific cases. I am, of course, confident that the occupational safety of the labour market will make correct decisions, and at the same time I stress that the vast majority of veterans' occupational injury cases concerning ptsd are recognised.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026183735	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026183736	It can be difficult to speculate about internal working procedures in the labour market's industrial safety. According to their own figures, the rate of recognition, as the Minister also mentioned, is on the cases since 1 January 2013 at approx. 70%, but the question then is whether these are the most recent figures presented to us by the Social Security for Workers, because there is some evidence that practices have changed. According to lawyer Mads Krøger Pramming, who has brought cases to veterans, it has become much harder today to apply for compensation for Ptsd. According to the lawyer, this is due to the fact that labour market insurance has introduced this rule of life. In concrete terms, this has meant that out of 31 cases brought by the lawyer for veterans, he has recently only been recognised two cases. This has led Mads Pramming to wonder, because the cases he is losing today are identical to cases he has won in the past. It is therefore neither the cases nor the explanations of the veterans that have changed, but the criteria for the award of compensation to veterans. In a letter to a soldier who has worked as a miner in Afghanistan, the Labour Market Occupational Insurance states as the reason for the refusal: "We have emphasized that it has not been documented that you have been subjected to traumatic events of a shorter or longer duration of an exceptionally threatening or catastrophic nature during your deployment to Afghanistan. ▪ At the Army Constable and Corporal Association, we are aware of several cases in which this life hazard criterion has been used to refuse, and we are concerned about a criterion that the soldier must have been exposed to a specific dangerous situation, because it is almost impossible to prove. Recent cases in this area have left me with doubts as to whether the law is being applied as intended, and I am concerned that labour market security has established a set of internal rules which are not fully in line with the Labour Damage Act or the Veteran Law. I would therefore like to ask whether the Minister will look into the matter further and what the Minister will do about the fact that a practice may have arisen so that fewer veterans will be compensated for mentally.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026183944	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026183945	I can promise that we will follow this area very closely. And because of the public debate and because of our desire to treat veterans in the best possible way, we have been following this area for a period of time. A special legislation has also been drawn up which allows for the possibility of reporting damage, in other words, despite some deadlines which have now been removed. In the close contact I have had with the area recently, I have had the same answers over and over again, namely that there has been no change in practice. We are following the area and we are following it closely with the rapporteurs from the other parties, and I will, of course, follow it in the light of the figures given by the questioner here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026184032	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026184033	I will return to the refusal, which states that emphasis has been placed on the fact that it has not been documented that he or she has been subjected to traumatic events of a shorter or longer duration of an exceptionally threatening or catastrophic nature during his or her deployment to Afghanistan. Then I would like to read out a reply from the Minister's colleague, the Minister for Health and the elderly, to a question about the definition of ptsd. It concludes that the definition of a traumatic event has been discussed and will often be based, in clinical practice, on an estimate which also takes into account how the individual interprets and has experienced the event in question rather than only the purely objective criteria. Does the Minister agree that even if you have not been in any danger objectively, you may well have been given ptsd as a result of your work?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026184123	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026184123-2	I simply do not have the courage to give a specific answer to that. I dare not put into words how this concept, when it is related to the events of reality, should be understood. Of course, in the interpretation of the WHO and the authorities working with Ptsd, a practice will develop as to the degree of danger and the circumstances which have led to this danger, in order to recognise Ptsd. If there is dissatisfaction with the interpretation of it, it must not be I who interprets it. Then it has to be the courts. I can only refer here to the concepts incorporated in the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026184210	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026184211	I just want to know who is the supreme authority in the definition of disease in Denmark. The answer has been obtained from contributions from the Danish Health Service, which says that you make an estimate based on how the individual has experienced the situation. So, when these veterans have been recognized by specialists and the National Hospital's military psychiatric clinic, which has diagnosed Ptsd, how can it be allowed in the Labour Market Occupational Security to overrule the decisions given in the Health Authority's definition that it is an individual estimate to be taken?
ParlaMint-DK_20161026184251	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026184252	You can have ptsd without it being triggered by a particular incident that is referred to. So there are several prerequisites that must be met. You have to have a diagnosis of a certain nature and that diagnosis must be related to events of a certain nature, and there are then some rules of the burden of proof to that effect. I cannot go in and interpret a specific case or a specific description. I have to rely on the answers we have received from the authorities, who say that practice has not changed. The concept is based on the WHO concept and no change has been made in practice by the AES.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026184339	That concludes the question and Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161026184341	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 27 October 2016, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
