ParlaMint-DK_20160225100029	The meeting is open. From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 16 February 2016, it has been determined that the Resort Responsibility for Law No. 178 of 29 April 1970 on pensions under previous laws on remuneration and pensions, etc. for ministers transferred from the Prime Minister to the Minister of Finance. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 16 February 2016 states that the Resort Responsibility for Law No. 178 of 29 April 1970 on pensions under the previous law on remuneration and pensions, etc. for ministers, as amended by Section 4 of Law No. 447 30 June 1993, transferred from the Prime Minister to the Minister for Finance. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Lars Løkke Rasmussen Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Finance (Claus Hjort Frederiksen): Bill no. L 136 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Digital Post. Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 76 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the refugee facility for Turkey). Minister for the Environment and Food (Eva Kjer Hansen): Bill no. L 137 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals. Trine Torp (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 77 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the right to vote in local elections and referendums for persons in guardianship who are deprived of their legal capacity). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Children, Education and Equal Opportunities (Ellen Trane Nørby) has informed me that she wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on the perspective and action plan for 2016. R 10). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday 29 March 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225100228	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225100252	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225100314	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. Has anyone not voted? It's actually not that funny! In fact, it is not as cheerful as some people say. It is actually rather serious that we forget to vote. We shall take the vote one more time. Are we sure everyone has voted? That concludes the vote. In favour of 52 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 49 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225100524	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225100543	Yesterday the door, a little late, went up to the Mirror Hall, and the Prime Minister came in and held a press conference. Here the Prime Minister spoke about the situation in the highly tense situation of Danish politics right now and said the following about the excessively positive environmental accounts of the Minister for the Environment and Food for the agricultural package, which we must understand that he has been presented since he held a rather late evening meeting with Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen and the other party presidents in the blue together, and I quote the Prime Minister: Since then I have spent the time giving a little more detailed information on the matter itself, understanding the figures in depth, trying to understand whether correct, incorrect information has been given to the Folketing or the conciliation circle. And I find that very, very difficult to see should be the case. Quote out. But that conclusion is in stark contrast to the noisy silence that entered the Landstingshall during an expert hearing on this very subject the day before yesterday. Here seven of the country's leading experts and independent top researchers in exactly the same material, in which the Prime Minister has informed themselves, were asked whether they could mark if, with their long-standing professionalism, they could back up the fairly positive environmental calculation of the agricultural package by the Minister for the Environment and Food, i.e. the information received by the Danish Parliament from the Minister. Not one of the seven experts on the aquatic environment and nitrogen in Denmark could support the Minister's environmental accounts for the agricultural package with their professional skills. The agricultural package is a burden on the environment; a green plus, as has been said, is in fact a black coal minus · in each of the years 2016, 2017 and 2018. On this serious point, Parliament has simply not been given accurate information. Neither does the Conservative People's Party believe that they have. Nor does the Danish People's Party think so. Neither do the five parties in the red bloc. Left and Liberal Alliance remain. They've got it all figured out. You have understood that the agricultural package and the large extra fertiliser permit which the Danish Parliament will be dealing with shortly will also provide a green plus. They are not influenced by the fact that the Municipality's Landsforening (Landsforening), together with researchers, states that the fertiliser relief that we are dealing with now is a breach of Denmark's obligations under the Water Framework Directive, which is intended to safeguard our water environment against deterioration. They are not influenced by the absence of the professional and legal assessment of the impact of extra-fertilisation on our groundwater. The lack of a legal assessment is otherwise required by the draft law for the application of the fertiliser permit. But only some loose considerations that law professors cannot get over their lips should be a professional legal assessment is what the Folketing has got. Now the Prime Minister is not here to explain it, but then it may be that the rapporteur of the Left will come to the floor and explain to all Members of Parliament why we have all misunderstood these figures, except the Left and the Liberal Alliance. I also hope that the Danish People's Party and Conservatives, who have understood that the environmental accounts are not accurate, will come to the platform and explain why the Danish National Association's criticism makes no impression and explain to us how to vote a law through where the professional and legal assessment of the consequences for all of our groundwater and drinking water is lacking. I hope we have a good debate on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225101009	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225101014	Thank you. I also come from an electoral area where agriculture takes up a lot, and that is where we are very concerned about creating jobs. I also understand that the NNF and many others do. There are many slaughterhouse workers who say: can we maintain our jobs? We know that the production of many pigs is simply the flag out. So why is it that the Socialists do not seem to really care about securing and creating jobs in connection with this package? For that is what is essential, that is to say, that we can create more jobs and, of course, also take care of the environment. Moreover, we are doing the same, and I will come up and explain that on our behalf at a slightly later stage. Why have the Socialists completely lost their aim of securing and creating jobs and supporting the strengthening of rural areas? Many spoke of this during the recent election campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225101105	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225101107	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur will be able to speak again shortly, and then perhaps he will be able to inform us all of how many jobs the government expects to get out of this agricultural package. That could be interesting. Because as I understand the climate accounting in which the government writes that it is a CO2 but we can then hear about that. The policy of social democracy in the food sector is on two legs. We also want to make progress for the industry, which creates employment and growth, but we say very clearly that it must be accompanied by a green growth. That balance is not in this agricultural package. Some figures that the researchers call creative accounting, misinformation, and on this basis, the balance that we believe to be necessary has not been achieved. That's why we're not in this deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225101200	Sir. Erling Bonnesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225101202	Of course, there is no makeup, no cheating, no tampering with things. As far as the number of jobs is concerned, this has also emerged from the debate, and I can have a question in a moment, and I will explain and answer at that time, but it is quite clear that the industry itself says that there are jobs in this. This will strengthen the framework conditions, the conditions of competition. This is, of course, the prerequisite for creating some growth in rural areas. Why is it that the Socialists have completely lost out on it? I understand that the rapporteur will not answer that in the first question, and now I have a second chance, and then I will give the rapporteur one more chance: why is it that the Socialists have completely lost what we discussed in the election campaign, namely that we should have strengthened rural areas, created some growth throughout the country? One of the very best things to do is to do it precisely through an agricultural and food agreement, as we are doing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225101245	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225101247	Now almost Krasnik is in it, for there was no answer to the question. You were given the opportunity to say a little about how many jobs the government expects to get out of this package, but that is something you can say when you get on the platform. Because I haven't seen that number yet. We are in favour of a policy in which we create jobs, but in balance with the environment and nature, and there is no such policy. I just have to say this when the rapporteur himself highlights rural areas. When you do not have a legal professional assessment of this case, it is at odds with and in conflict with EU law. That's what the National Association of Municipalities says. If we do not get through the European Union with this, Danish farmers and rural areas will lose the money in the rural programme. It could be a consequence of overlooking this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225101330	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225101332	Now we are talking about a food package. It's about the bill and not about the whole process that's around. I'd like to focus on the bill itself. See, this package should provide some more jobs, not only in the agricultural sector, which I am well aware that the Socialists seem to be completely indifferent to, but also to industrial jobs, for example. in slaughterhouses and dairies. We have been able to hear that the NNF for the slaughterhouse workers has called for action to ensure that more jobs are created within the slaughterhouse. How can the Socialists be completely ignorant of the call for progress to be made so that we can have more jobs in these sectors?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225101419	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225101421	I am glad that we continue to focus on this issue, because it is precisely one thing the government cannot answer us about, namely how many jobs this package could provide. You can answer how much money agriculture gets in the next few minutes when it's green for this part of the package. Then Danish farmers will get about 1.4-1,9 billion. kr. extra paid. But slaughter jobs and jobs in general cannot be given any figures. So perhaps you should not swing too much on the high horse around it with jobs, when you are not able to answer it yourself. I can only repeat, as far as the Socialists are concerned, that we are in favour of a food policy and an agricultural policy in which we want to help the industries of our food industry and our agriculture, but it must be in balance with our green side and with the green side. That balance is not in this agricultural package, and that is why the Social Democrats are not in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225101516	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225101518	Thank you. It was a game of christiansborg chips, because you don't want to relate to the concrete. Do you want to create more slaughterhouse jobs, or do you not want to? Well, because you can't get a number, you say that you can't relate to it. It's nothing but christiansborg chips. This creates more slaughterhouse jobs. Is that something that the Socialists are opposed to?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225101538	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225101539	I think that was a christian castle question. The Socialists are, of course, very much in favour of creating jobs, but the rapporteur has to deal with the fact that no job effect has been assessed by the package before Parliament today. On the contrary, a climate effect has been assessed. It says you're neutral. It can only be if zero extra pigs come out of this deal. So you have to be careful not to make too much of it with slaughterhouse jobs when you do not have your own numbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225101615	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225101619	It was because I heard from the rapporteur that, like these seven experts, they are being used as witnesses of truth, and then they say that this agreement is coal-black from the point of view of the environment. Is it not true that one of the experts, namely Jørgen E. Olesen, who attended the hearing the other day in the committee, concluded that in the first few years, when there is much discussion about whether there is a negative or a positive environmental statement, the effects in his eyes are so small that they simply cannot be measured? Apparently, it translates the Social Democrats into black coal. Can the rapporteur please explain to me the translation of the truth witness's expert Jørgen E. Olesens's statement that it is effects so small that they cannot be measured to be coal black? How does that translation take place in the world of the Social Democrats?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225101712	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225101713	Thank you. I am glad that the Left is now starting to listen to experts, and I am glad that it may have made an impression that seven of the country's leading independent researchers from the university community in this very area cannot support the claim that this agricultural package should have a green plus in 2016, 2017 and 2018. But then to Jørgen E. Olesen, as is being asked. Jørgen E. Olesen is quoted in Berlingske on 16 February 2016, where he is asked: Do you estimate that the agricultural package in isolation will harm the environment... in the first few years? The answer comes here: Yes, it will. The package leads to higher emissions than there are compensatory measures.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225101756	Sir. Jacob Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225101800	Well, we in the Left always listen to experts, including experts who work with this out there in real life. We had a consultation yesterday, although it was very short, but the Minister was given the opportunity to reply that we are listening to the people, Sustainable Agriculture, Agriculture & Food and others, who in our opinion are experts, namely experts out in reality. But when the rapporteur concludes that the package in the first few years has an effect that is coal black, isn't it right that I heard Jørgen E. Olesen's conclusions yesterday at that hearing, because I was sitting there myself saying that those effects are so small that he would think that they cannot be measured? How is it that, according to the expert's statement, effects cannot be measured, translated by the Social Democrats into a coal-black environmental effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225101842	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225101843	Jørgen E. Olesen is quoted on Ritzau on 13 February 2016 as saying about the environmental accounts of the Danish Minister for Environment and Food for the agricultural package: the accounts do not go in plus. This is only because a lot of effects have been added that have nothing to do with the political package. He is quoted the next day, February 14th, in Berlingske to say the following: "In a research context, we would be killed, so to deliver a calculation like this. It must be impressed on the Left that the Folketing has not received the right information from the Left's own minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225101926	Thank you. And then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225101930	Thank you. I cannot quite understand why the Socialist rapporteur cannot remember the things that were said at the hearing, because it is not so many days ago that the experts were sitting at a hearing in the Landstingshall here at Christiansborg, and that one of the experts said that the effects would be so small in the first few years that they simply could not be measured. I know that the Socialist rapporteur has been sitting with me on the Rural Committee for a few years, which is why I am surprised that some of the jobs in rural areas and the fact that we are getting some 150 billion. kr. In other words, some of these figures, which we have heard over and over again, do not affect the rapporteur. Is it true that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament does not really care whether Danish agriculture contributes so much export earnings?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225102039	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225102040	The Socialists care about Danish agriculture. We also want to create prosperity and growth for our food industry. We are just saying that this must be done in a balance where there is also progress on the green side. It is true that the rapporteur and I have been sitting on the Rural Committee together and that we are interested in rural areas. If we in the Left are interested in rural areas, we should be interested in the consultation response given by the National Association of Municipalities, in which they say that the bill through which the blue majority votes in the near future is contrary to EU directives. There is no legal assessment, as is stated in the observations made by the Act, before the manure can be driven out into the fields. It is contrary to EU directives if nothing like that is available. Why is this so important for rural areas? It is because if we do not meet our EU legal obligations in Denmark, the government is gambling with the Danish rural programme of 1.3 billion. kr. It will cost Danish farmers, and it will cost Danish rural areas if it does not get through. So I do not understand that the Left can vote in favour of that bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225102142	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225102143	We sat together at the table and negotiated this package. Unfortunately, the Socialists chose to go to the end because you did not want to take responsibility. You helped fix the package. You helped to get things in the package that you thought were important, and you said several times that you have also subsequently said in public that the targeted environmental regulation is really, really important. I cannot understand, and that is what I would like a comment from the rapporteur on why you are a party that will not take responsibility, including in ensuring targeted environmental regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225102225	Thank you. And you don't use direct charges. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225102228	Social democracy is happy to take responsibility, we have always done so, but I think it is a great deal to demand that the Social Democrats should take responsibility for an environmental account that does not fit and, as the researchers say, is creative accounting and misinformation of the Folketing. It is a great deal to ask the Social Democrats to take responsibility for this sort of thing. In fact, I think the matter is quite serious. It is serious because our aquatic environment is being ignored in the eagerness to adopt manure legislation today, and at the same time it is being accepted that the Folketing receives misleading information from the government. It is a great deal to ask the Social Democrats to take responsibility for such things, and we do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225102310	Sir. Thomas Danielsen, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225102311	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur two questions. Scientists have quite rightly said that it is possible to set up calculation models for increasing leaching into the aquatic environment, but I would like the rapporteur to put on the rubber boots and go to a stream and measure it, not by making calculation models for it, but by measuring it. Would it be possible to measure an increase in leaching in the aquatic environment? Jørgen E. Olesen, to whom the rapporteur himself has referred several times, says that the effect of the agricultural package on nitrogen leaching is so small that no one will be able to measure it in the aquatic environment. In addition, there are jobs in connection with the agricultural package. There I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the Socialists recognise the LO's calculations for the agricultural package, which say that this will result in an increase in jobs of plus 3 000?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225102407	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225102408	I'd love to wear my rubber boots, and I'd like to get into a stream with Thomas Danielsen. Perhaps we should be careful not to be washed away now that all the porridge has to be cut away and there is going to be a fucking flow out there, because that is also part of the policy being pursued right now. But when the researchers are asked to consider whether the Danish Parliament has got the right information in this case and they are asked to consider whether the environmental accounts go in plus in the first three years of this period, none of them can directly be asked to move their hand up into the air and mark and say that there is a green plus in this agreement, as the government claims there is. In relation to the jobs, I am gradually getting very excited about getting the government's figures for "I understand that the rapporteur will be coming up in a few moments how many slaughterhouse jobs will come out of this agreement. I have a very good idea of that: 0.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225102502	Sir. Thomas Danielsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225102505	Unfortunately, I did not get the full answer to my questions, so I will try again: is there anyone who can measure a merwash in our water environment following this agricultural package within the first three years? And does the rapporteur recognise that the LO envisages an increase in employment of plus 3 000 jobs? These are two simple questions. Will the rapporteur answer them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225102528	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225102529	It is clear that it will have an effect in relation to jobs when, although it has been cut off, the funds allocated by the previous government to investments in stables are still being continued. It is clear that such a thing provides some construction work. However, the government has just not provided any figures and perhaps it is now beginning to be afraid of presenting some figures to the government, after all, it has to know for itself how many jobs the package creates here. In relation to whether it can be measured in the aquatic environment, I have to quote, for example. Stiig Marcage, who was one of the researchers who attended the hearing the day before yesterday, says that 5,000 tonnes more nitrogen will produce an effect in the marine environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225102606	Thank you. Then Mrs Pia Olsen is Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225102610	I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the Minister for Finance's answer to Question 81 of the Committee on Finance of 18 November 2015 is not correct and I guess that the Socialists share the view that, in the words of the Finance Minister himself, the economy as a whole is not judged to have significant lasting effects on employment. Following the debate the rapporteur has had with the bourgeois parties here in the past, I think it might be appropriate to refer to the Minister for Finance's own answer to the question of employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225102649	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225102650	That's absolutely right. After all, the government has no estimate of how many jobs this agreement provides, and that is why it is a little hollow when everyone in the Left has gradually been up and pressed into the line of speech and said that they were fighting for slaughterhouse jobs, and I do not know how many jobs should come out of this. In the Social Democratic Party, we are working to create more production jobs, including slaughterhouse jobs. We are just saying that it should be in balance with the environment and the green. That balance is not in this agreement, and then it may create that we do not know on the part of the government at all. I find it very difficult to see how an agreement which is claimed to be climate-neutral, I think, too, can be discussed, should provide a lot of slaughterhouse jobs. For everyone knows that when more pigs are produced, it also gets a strain with climate effects.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225102741	Then it's mr. Peter Juel Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225102743	Thank you. I wonder a little because when the LO can come out and say that this will create 3,000 extra jobs, how can a Socialist rapporteur just pour them completely off the board and say: 'That's a lie!'
ParlaMint-DK_20160225102758	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225102800	Here in the Folketing you have to be able to rely on the information you get from the government, and that is really a key element in this matter, you can say, and therefore it may well be that I have to move on to the figures of the LO. But so far the government itself has estimated that nothing can be said about the employment impact of this agricultural package. We can then get the rapporteur of the Left to explain this on behalf of the government, namely where these jobs are supposed to come from at the discretion of the government. I remember that once people were always talking about the Workers' Council and the LO, as if they were the red side's rain boys, and I don't know what, and now it has become the straw of the Left that one clings to in this debate where the government itself can't say anything about how many jobs there are going to be. That's amazing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225102845	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225102847	I would like to admit that when one of the social partners makes a bid as to what this could have with consequences, it is an information to which I relate and which I take for reasonably good goods. I do not have the same relationship as the Socialist rapporteur for the LO. I am counting on the LO to have pure flour in its bag, and the rapporteur obviously does not think so. Then the rapporteur has said that for the first three years this will have a slightly distorted environmental impact. Can the rapporteur say 'yes' or 'no' to me what happens after the three years? If the first 3 years give a negative environmental impact, where one of the researchers was out to say that it will not even be possible to measure it, what will the environmental impact be after the 3 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225102929	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225102930	The comment on the LO stands for the rapporteur's own account, but yes, we should like to continue out of the equation in this agricultural package. Let us look at the agricultural package and go to year 4. There is also a huge minus, and when the rapporteur looks at the agricultural package in isolation, there is a big minus. If you sum up what has been of minus over the years and what may come as a possible plus, if, if, in the case of the targeted regulation, which the Social Democratic Party also thinks is a fine model, we have proposed and adopted it ourselves, while we were in government, then the small plus will not even compensate for the great minus, which has been the first four years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225103009	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225103012	I think the Socialist rapporteur's argument is rather divergent: the environment is deteriorating, it is terrible, but it has absolutely no effects, it does not mean anything. Seems a little weird. Will the Socialist rapporteur not recognise that with this bill, when it is adopted, it will improve the raw materials base in the Danish agricultural and food industries, a raw materials base that determines how many jobs are created in the food industry, how many slaughterhouse jobs are created, among other things. In Tican, thisted? Will the Socialist rapporteur recognise that this bill increases the raw material base of Danish agricultural and food production with positive effects on employment?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225103105	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225103106	The rapporteur says that I am arguing that the environment is deteriorating. That's right. The rapporteur says that I say that there is no effect of this. For employment, it is true that there is no employment effect in relation to the Ministry's own figures. Then the rapporteur talks about raw materials and pigs. I just have to say that we have not received any figures from the government here in the Folketing showing that more pigs are actually coming out of this agreement. The fact is that the production of pigs for fattening has declined over the last few years and there is no indication that this agricultural agreement will change. I think that the essence of this is to create an agricultural package which is supposed to be good for the environment, it is not, it has a negative impact on the environment, and at the same time it misleads the Folketing in a very, very serious matter. That is what is at the heart of this, and I cannot understand why the Left does not relate to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225103210	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225103211	I think it is a pity that we cannot get a clear statement from the Social Democratic Party that this will mean a better raw material base and that something is now being delivered and not just nice toastings about declarations of intent, and that we also need to do something for our rural areas, something for those professions that are really, very much in our rural areas. The municipalities where the food industry occupies the most are in our rural areas. And there is now an obvious opportunity for the Social Democratic Party to turn the plunder into something concrete, into something that boosts the income of the industry, into something that increases the raw material base, into something that can create more activity, better agricultural development, for the food industry, for our rural areas. On the first occasion, the Social Democratic Party votes against. That is a clear admission.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225103304	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225103305	I will return to rural areas. I do not know who in the Left, it is that has the opportunity to present the figures that show that there will be more people on the shift that more people on the job will actually come out of this agreement. Those numbers don't exist. You cannot have an alleged neutral agricultural agreement, and then there will be more pigs for fattening. That is why it is going to be such a blow in the air that we are now going to turn the slaughterhouse jobs into such a spearhead in the struggle for a budget of between 1.4 and 1.9 billion in the near future. kr. to Danish farmers in isolation. When you talk rural areas loud and handsomely, speaking of toast speeches, we have a law that today violates EU law if you ask the National Association of Municipalities. There is no legal assessment in this agreement, and if this is not approved in the European Union, then it is openly presented by the government itself that the Danish rural programme with 1.3 billion. kr. to our rural areas and farmers is what has been put on the playing board and gambles with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225103410	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225103425	Thank you for that, President. Unlike the previous rapporteur, we believe that today is a day of joy, because today we are about to vote on parts of the agricultural package. The story is that as far back as April 2013, the Nature and Agriculture Commission led Jørn Jespersen with the conclusions of the work they had done. It was very clear that targeted regulation was the way forward. Then it was so that before the elections, the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservatives went together and found out how we would do it here after the elections. Unfortunately, nothing happened after April 2013 under the previous government, so we put on the work clothes, made a 16-point plan to look at how to increase the raw material base in harmony with nature and the environment, and we were based on the recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission. We then got 16 points made, there were elections, we got a new minister who from day one has worked 100% loyally to the 16-point plan that we are going to be voting through today about nitrogen. It has actually been a very good course until not so long ago. It has been a long process and there have been meetings over at the Ministry. Right after the election, the work began quickly, the Minister put on the work clothes, the office put on the work clothes. After all, the previous government had set up a nitrogen committee and that work was to continue, and the work was also to be used in the recommendations and in the further work, and now we are standing here today and having to vote through the proposal at a third reading. What then happens afterwards is that in week 7, during the winter holidays, there will be an article in the Berlingske Tidende. This means that there will be a discussion on the figures. And then I would like to thank Simon Kollerup for the fact that we had a hearing in good order, a very good hearing in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food, in which researchers also had the opportunity to come in and present what they would like to say in relation to the criticism they had made. I thought the hearing was really good. Why was the hearing really good? It was because the researchers unanimously said that this agricultural package is an environmental package in the long run. This is the way to regulate Danish agriculture. You have to make targeted regulation, and that's what you deliver with this package. There is a green account when you look at the fact that we are moving to targeted regulation. It was the case that, in the context of the discussion that took place, researchers also replied to what it meant for the environment, now that that is what we are talking about. Yeah, I guess you won't be able to measure that. If we look at what has happened in relation to nitrogen emissions in Denmark over the last 20 years, we will see that there has been over a halving of nitrogen emissions, and we should remember that what we are talking about here is down in the petites. This agricultural package is, of course, in harmony with nature and the environment, and then it is an agricultural package that creates growth and employment. Then it is true that there are some who want to ask how much it pays. Is it 1,000, is it 6,000, is it 4,000? However, there is no doubt that when farmers can produce products that are only of a higher quality, it will of course allow for increased employment. In any case, it allows for an increase in earnings. There is also no doubt that, when we go up to 1.7 units for pigs, there will be an opportunity to produce more pigs, and then there will also be an opportunity to maintain the foundations for having our slaughterhouses. That's all it is! Then we can discuss the figures, i.e. how much it gives, but we are very positive that it of course provides growth and employment where it is going to happen. I would also like to clarify something in connection with the fact that Berlingske today has an article in which the Danish People's Party and the undersigned have also been referred to about the agricultural package. We have taken note of the researchers' criticism regarding the table's presentation of the accumulated baseline. It was also the discussion that took place at the hearing where the Minister very clearly said that it was true in that sense that that presentation could well have been in another way, that one could have made a star and explained how we had arrived at what we were going to do. There should have been a reference to the reference year 2012 and a reference to the justification for the aggregation of the figures in the notes we have received on the agricultural package. There we very much agree with the Minister that this could have been done more readablely, and so it is not much longer. But that doesn't change the fact that the overall baseline should of course be counted on when we look at how the environment is being affected, and also, of course, we shouldn't underestimate it, as the researchers also said, that the environmental measures that come with the package will lead to a green plus in 2020 and in the years to come. Now we are actually at a third reading here today, so we have the first reading, after all, we have the second reading, we have also submitted a report in committee. I would just like to point out that on page 5 of the draft law this is very clear, and it has done so from day one. It is therefore surprising that this is so epoch-making knowledge, and I would like to say that I think the Minister has explained very well that better could have been done. We also had experts who said that this was hard-accessible material and that it could have been done better. Of course, we take note of that. The Danish People's Party supports the bill, of course, and we are happy to support it. We would like to thank the Minister and the Minister's official work for the fine work that has been done, for allowing us, at such short notice, to implement policies which mean so much. This is 25 years of misguided environmental policy in agriculture, which is now being changed. It has been on the desk since April 2013, but it took a new government to make Danish agriculture greener, and we from the Danish People's Party are really proud to be a part of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104118	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments. First, it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104125	A few weeks ago Mr. René Christensen for rolling cameras and gave a very, very firm guarantee that not a single Dane would pay more for his drinking water. Then we got the hearing from the Ministry. Well to feel Monday night! So three days before the third reading we got the consultation note from the Ministry... it's completely unheard of... and it says that the bill has to be paid by the water users when the municipalities are about to do this. Then we could read that Mr. René Christensen defended himself with the targeted regulation. So it won't be for four years, so my question to Mr. René Christensen is: In these four years, should the municipalities risk contamination of groundwater, or should they charge their citizens a bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104212	President. - I call the rapporteur. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104213	Now it is actually the case that, from what we have been working on, it can be seen that this is not a pollution permit granted to farmers. What is the whole purpose of the targeted regulation is, of course, to control farmers' nitrogen allocation wherever possible. And nowhere does this agreement say that nitrate-sensitive areas should not be taken into account. Of course, nitrate-sensitive areas must also be taken into account in relation to targeted regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104244	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104246	Now it was not the targeted regulation that I asked about, because we are all agreed on it. It's these 3-4 years before it's clear we don't agree on it. Then I ask you during this period, and it is actually a rather simple question to Mr. René Christensen: Should the municipalities risk allowing groundwater to be contaminated in these 3-4 years, or should they charge taxpayers a bill for the 3-4 years? I am not talking about targeted regulation, it is this intermediate period.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104308	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104310	This is the case, and the question has also been put to the researchers: what is happening during this period? What is it of nitrogen we're talking about? So you try to make a picture that now the sky falls down and the groundwater gets polluted, but that's not gonna happen. That's what's too bad. Perhaps that is why it was a little too bad that we were called to the hearing, because scientists actually reassured us and said: this is good legislation, this is the way we should go. And although there is no targeted regulation for a period of time, among other things. Also using the baseline effects, this isn't going to be measurable. So we are completely calm in the Danish People's Party, and so can water consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104349	Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104352	This agricultural package brings no harmony between nature and the environment and agriculture, and I find it embarrassing after the course we have been through that the rapporteur is standing here and putting it forward in this way. There isn't It was based on creative accounting. They had used methods which the scientists clearly distanced themselves from and said: 'We cannot do that, we would have been killed if we had done that.' It is a deliberate and systematic misdirection of the Folketing. But I would like to ask the question: can the rapporteur confirm that this agricultural package will lead to an increase in nitrogen emissions for the first four years of 7,996 tonnes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104449	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104450	I can confirm that this agricultural package is in agreement with nature and the environment, and I strongly disagree that there should have been any misdirection in the negotiations that have taken place on the agricultural package.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104505	Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104507	I asked quite specifically: does this agricultural package include an additional nitrogen emissions to our nature, our environment and our drinking water of 7,996 tonnes yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104524	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104526	This is what I tried to say before: a phasing-out of nitrogen reductions within the framework of the proposed authorisation in section 1 of the draft law could lead to increased emissions of nitrogen. However, that amount of nitrogen must be kept within Denmark's EU legal obligations. It's in the bill. No one can be surprised that this is happening for a short period of time. Then we go further: in order to ensure compliance with EU legal obligations, the increase of nitrogen standards in relation to the current level will have to be matched, as necessary, by environmental compensatory measures, including, for example, the reduction of nitrogen levels in relation to the existing level. effects of baseline. That is what the proposal says. That's not a new knowledge. This has been the case since this was the first vote in the Parliamentary Assembly. That's how it was when we had the second treatment. It has been presented all along. What's new?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104616	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104622	The Danish Parliament is examining a bill to give the Minister the power to determine the nitrogen standards of crops. This is a minister whom a majority in the Folketing has mistrust of it is a rather grotesque matter. I understood from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party the other day in another case that the Danish People's Party was generally opposed to giving major powers to the Minister, and that was in a case where it had no consequence. Now we have a case here where it has a huge impact on the environment. We have had some meetings recently and I would like to ask the rapporteur a question about the annexes that have been submitted to us. I understand that the rapporteur has come to the conclusion that it may not have been the correct figures. I would like to know whether the rapporteur agrees that in the first four years there will be an increase in nitrogen pollution of approx. 2,000 tonnes per year years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104719	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104722	On the first question, I would like to say that it is the case that, through targeted regulation, there has to be a ministerial authorisation. It is the case that the blue card has also been discussed a great deal in agricultural circles and, for that matter too, here too is a dynamic card that can move. We just walk away from the fact that everything has to be tables where you just figure yourself out. Now we go into the environment and measure and look at what it looks like out there, what the state of the environment is like. And that is why there is simply a need to be a ministerial authority here. Otherwise, we would meet a lot down here in Parliament and change it all the time. It will be dynamic and, of course, we trust that a minister, no matter what colour the Minister is, will recognise and insist that this is a green package, which is also being proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104814	Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104816	Now it would have been best to have had such a hearing long before there was a first reading of a legislative proposal which would have to give such a large mandate in terms of 62%. of the Danish area, where it is now laid up to fertilize more. I think new figures have emerged during this hearing. This is among other things. I would like to point out that there will be an increase in phosphorus pollution when standards are raised as to how much nitrogen must be discharged into the fields. It's not in any way elucidated in this bill. Nor has it been made clear that there will be an increase in pollution with straw shorteners. What is the rapporteur's view that the two aspects are not highlighted in the environmental statement presented in the draft law?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104855	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104857	Well, we fully acknowledge that this proposal is that where you can fertilize more in harmony with nature and the environment, you will have the opportunity to get some crops that yield a higher return and have a better quality. Then it is also true that with regard to what the previous government did, namely to say that only organic farmers had to fertilise with, for example, conventional manure in § 3 areas, it is now said that a conventional farmer can of course also use his own manure in a § 3 area. And that is among other things. One of the things that is going to happen is, of course, right.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104930	Thank you. Then it's mr. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104935	Thank you. It has come to light today that a motion of censure will be tabled to the Minister for the Environment and Food, on which a majority in the Danish Parliament supports. The rapporteur says to the Berlingske Tidende that a nose to the minister is okay. Can the rapporteur not try to say why a nose is okay??
ParlaMint-DK_20160225104959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105001	I don't think I'm saying that. I think I say that a majority could choose to do so. I just want to say that this case has come completely out of proportion. The Minister has delivered one hundred percent of what the Minister has been asked for, and so it is not very much longer. I have also just explained what it is that I would like to be quoted for in relation to the article that is. I also think that the Minister did a very good job at the hearing, but no one was listening. After all, the Minister fully acknowledged that this reading guide or the opportunity to get behind the figures could have been done in a different way, and of course we fully acknowledge this from the Danish People's Party. It's hard-to-access material. This could have been done in a more educational way, and there I think the Minister replied quite well: that should have been done. And then you have to choose whether you think it's enough to do a whole lot. If you need it, you will have to deal with it by the majority who may wish to do so. We do not need to give the Minister a nose or anything else. If we had had these questions in relation to some figures, we would have contacted the Minister, and I am sure that they would have been allowed to come to the Ministry and get answers to their questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105107	Then it's mr. Simon Kollerup. I would just like to say that there are a great many people who have signed in, so there are no more who can make the speech, because then we simply do not keep to the time. I'll try to reach the people who are standing here. I don't want to promise, but there can be no more. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105123	Thank you. So that means that a little up the morning you pull all this talk about DF and nose and stuff back, but we just have to take note of the fact that the party changes its mind in one morning. Then I just want to ask you another quote in this article in Berlingske, because it may have been withdrawn too, now we have to try to see. The rapporteur is asked in Berlingske's article: "Have you received correct information from the Minister? ▪ To which the rapporteur responds: No, I do not want to say that. Can the rapporteur try to elaborate on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105153	Yeah, actually, I'd like that. It was a good reporter who was practically interrogated for half an hour, and I would like to say that I am in favour of it, and he certainly has not misquoted me. I am sure of that, and that is also why I am here from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament very clearly stating what position we have on it. I was probably asked that question about 50 times, and it may well be that at some point I have said what I did there. That is the way it is, and I have corrected that by standing here on Parliament's platform, and it must be the right place to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105228	Then it is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105231	Thank you. I think it is quite interesting to hear what the rapporteur has said to BT. Now we need to find out whether the rapporteur is still standing by it, because, as I read it, the rapporteur says, among other things.: If it was I who was minister and had been in consultation, then I would have said: Yes, it is problematic. What is the rapporteur's problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105256	It's the reading guide. That was the question, at least from the Conservatives. And it might have been brushed out more, but you could have asked more about it if you wanted to have another answer. I really think the Minister made this very clear. The minister said there could have been a star. You might not think that that was so obvious. I heard the Minister say: yes, it has been a problematic reading guide. That is how the Minister put it. But perhaps one could have done that in order to have gone further than to where we are going to stand today, unfortunately, one has to say, with a very, very small thing. So what we are talking about here is a reading guide. That's what the scientists said. We should remember that we brought a researcher who said just now that she had read a lot of this and that she would recommend that it be done in the future, and indeed the Minister said so when we were there that we would do so in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105350	Thank you. It's Mrs. Lea Wermelin again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105354	The rapporteur now sounds a bit like the minister. It may be that you have been corrected a little on the same lines of speech. However, in relation to what the rapporteur is saying now, I would just like to hear: does the rapporteur think that correct information has been given?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105413	When you talk to a journalist for half an hour, you also say a lot that is not included in the article. I would like to say that at no time have we felt that someone was trying to cheat anyone. At no time in these negotiations did we feel that anyone was manipulating the figures. I would also like to say that there were parties which are not part of this agreement, but which were sitting with a very, very long time to the end. Nor do I think they will say that they felt that someone was manipulating the figures or anything in the course of the negotiations. You might not say that today, but if you ask them in a closed room, I actually think they'll say they have that feeling. It was actually a very good course. There was a good mood. There were other things that meant that this was not a very broad agreement, but that is what politics is all about. We would have liked it to have been a broad agreement, and that, in fact, was also close.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105459	Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105502	Thank you. Now there were other things than clean, raw nitrogen accounting on the table at the hearing the other day. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur is impressed by the fact that we had a talk about the use of older figures. We asked a couple of scientists how to choose older numbers and whether it made sense. The fact is that we have figures from 2008 to 2012, we can base this equation on, but on the basis we have chosen to base older figures from 1997 to 2001. Then Stiig Marcakes says that it's about like when you want to hit a target, you just go back ten steps to hit it. So you're much more imprecise when you use old numbers. Does that not impress the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105558	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105559	I think that if we had asked the researchers how they would have done it and what accounts they had come up with, they would not have agreed. Because what I heard the scientists say all the time, and that's what was interesting, because it's really hard here. What numbers do you need? It depends on how much rainfall comes. It's incredibly hard to hit the right number. Then the Ministry has chosen to use the model used. Scientists would then have used seven different models. And then you can have a discussion about it. The most important thing, of course, is that this proposal does what we agree on in this Chamber, namely that we come out and get targeted regulation. That's what's interesting. What was also interesting about that hearing was that the researchers did not agree on what it would look like.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105643	Here you go, sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105644	After all, it is quite common for researchers to disagree because they base different things on their studies, and they document it so clearly when they do. That was one of the criticisms raised here: we were not quite clear about what was actually presented by the data. But I would also like to hear about this thing with measurements, because we heard about that too. Does the rapporteur not also recognise that Stiig Marcage and several others argued that if we are to drop models and only measure them in the environment, it will be quite incalculable and that if we are to multiply the concentration values with streams and take very many measuring points, it will be expensive and very complicated and will not give a true picture? Does the rapporteur not also recognise that this is what we heard?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105727	Thank you, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105728	I fully acknowledge that we heard it, but indeed we heard the opposite, namely that making measurements out there was the only right thing to do and that you could find out how much water runs through. You could use this. That's what we heard. It also tells us that there isn't such a truth when you just sit and do it at a desk, and you go out and say, "This is where we are." There are so many parameters that go in. So we heard both sides. But I also hear that researchers end by saying that targeted regulation based on measurements is the right way to go. But from there to say it's gonna be such a walkover that it's just gonna be very easy, it's a long way. I don't think anyone expects it to be that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105805	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105809	I have to say that I am somewhat confused after hearing the rapporteur's speech here today. The rapporteur says: thank you to the Minister for the fine work that has been done. So, thank you to the Minister for the fine work that has been done. At the same time, we can read in today's Berlingske that seven researchers have told us that we cannot add numbers in the way the government has done it. I acknowledge that, too, as the rapporteur says. Can the rapporteur decide? Is it a fine piece of work, or is it not a fine piece of work that you cannot count on? It can't be both at once.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105843	It is a very good job the Minister has done. And the Minister also said that the approach to understanding these figures would have been problematic. It could have been done in a different way. And I'm gonna deal with that. That is also what the researchers said, that the method of presentation used by the Minister, in relation to the fact that we, as politicians in parliament, had to understand these figures, was problematic. This should have been done in a different way compared with reference years and so on. And, of course, we take note of that. And at the hearing and, for that matter, at the subsequent consultation that we had, the Minister also said that we want to do something about it in the future. But that does not change the fact that there has been a good progress. That does not change the fact that today we are dealing with the third reading of a bill on targeted regulation which is good for the environment. This does not alter the fact that seven researchers said that the proposal we are presenting here today is, overall, very good for the environment, while it is also very good for farmers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105935	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225105937	Well, it is nice to hear that the rapporteur thinks that there has been a good progress, but that is not what we are discussing. After all, we are discussing whether the Minister has given correct information to the Folketing. And there the rapporteur says in today's newspaper that this is not the case. So I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party: is it not a problem when a minister does not properly inform the Danish Parliament and that the Danish Parliament cannot rely on the information that comes in the way the rapporteur himself says today in Berlingske?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225110005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225110007	I have actually stood up here and read out exactly what I wanted to express in Berlingske. And at no time have we had the feeling or experience that we have not received true figures from the Minister. We have seen that we have obtained some figures which were a little difficult to obtain, and there the Minister has also said that this will not be the case in the future, and we are, of course, very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225110028	Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225110030	I also have to ask the rapporteur about the statements that have been made in BT today. And I have to, given that the statements say that the method of calculation is problematic: seven researchers have told us that we cannot add numbers in the way the government has done. I acknowledge that. It is the case that when you are interviewed by a journalist, you can get your quotes for review and it will recommend the rapporteur forward-looking. I am deeply surprised that the Danish People's Party can accept that the Danish Parliament gets incorrect information, because this situation can be compared to another food minister's situation, namely the situation with the Minister for Food, Lars Barfoed. There it was precisely about the fact that the Minister for Food, Lars Barfoed, was engaged in cleaning up in the Ministry of Food, had actually presented that the figures on the table were incorrect and he was cleaning up. Nevertheless, the Danish People's Party chose to draw the rug under the then Minister for Food. Has the Danish People's Party changed policy in relation to whether ministers need to give correct answers? Has the Danish People's Party decided that it doesn't matter as long as the Prime Minister is just called Lars Løkke Rasmussen?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225110149	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225110151	A minister must always give a fair answer. A minister must always present the right figures. That's the way it is. All ministers, no matter what they are for ministers, must do so, and the Minister has done so. The Minister has just presented it in a way where it was really difficult to obtain, and we were also told at the hearing that it was problematic that this material was presented in the way it was. We have, of course, taken note of this, and the Minister has also corrected it and said that that service will not be given to the Folketing, to the conciliation parties or to others in the future. There's going to be the reading guide to access these hard-to-access numbers in a different way, and of course we take note of that. That is what we say the Minister has not done well enough, and there the Minister has also laid down and said: yes, that is true, we have not done well enough. And we're kind of happy that we're getting a better service in the future when it comes to accessing hard-to-access material.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225110242	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225110244	I would just like to ask for a very simple answer: yes or no in fact because the Danish People's Party has changed the practice as to what ministers are allowed to do in relation to the Danish Parliament? For Lars Barfoed, the then Minister for Food, acknowledged that there was a mess and that there had to be cleaned up and he was cleaning up. He presented a report on how to start cleaning up, and he was sorry that the Folketing had been misled. It was presented openly by the then Minister for Food. Nevertheless, the Danish People's Party chose to draw the carpet under the then Minister for Food because it did not have a very long fuse and wanted the Folketing to have accurate information. It says in black and white that the rapporteur says: 'Seven researchers have told us that we cannot add numbers in the way the government has done. I acknowledge that. Ergo acknowledges the Danish People's Party that the government has provided incorrect information to the Folketing. Why, then, is it that the Danish People's Party is not behind the motion of censure that the government is facing today, and why is it that the Danish People's Party has now changed its practice in relation to whether ministers should give correct information to the Danish Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225110350	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225110353	I was asked whether I would answer yes or no. The Danish People's Party has not changed its attitude. Ministers must, of course, always present true figures.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225110400	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225110406	Thank you. It fits very well in relation to what I would like to ask. But I think I would like to start by saying that the Danish language is amazing. It can be used in many ways. A dispute with Danish environmental policy, a dispute with 25 years of Danish environmental policy, said Mr. René Christensen, that's what we're facing with this law. And then it's just a very small thing anyway, it's quite impressive. What really happens if you want to make a fight with 25 years of environmental policy is that you open the floodgates to a degree so that you really get scandals now. And it is clear that if you want to please agriculture, you just have to go crazy. When I say that about the language, it is because one after the other is trying to tell us what the facts are and then the rapporteur says: 'Ah, that is a very small thing'. Can the rapporteur confirm that the researchers who have supplied the figures used to show that the agricultural package ends up in a green plus for the environment, at the same time refer to the way the Minister has used the figures that are now listening to creative accounting, erroneous and misinformation. Creative accounting, misinformation and misinformation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225110521	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225110524	That's how I read the article. Now I've been standing up here and commenting on an article myself. I would just like to say that we did not hear that at the hearing we had to which the researchers were called; and it was nuanced researchers who had been called. What was strange about it was that the researchers did not agree either. So what was interesting about that hearing was that there were seven researchers who said that they questioned it. But what kind of model do you need? Yeah, they didn't agree on that. Well, that's what came out of it, too. You can't just draw for a ruler and say that this is the way it has to be done. There are so many prerequisites to think about, and so did the researchers. So I thought that hearing was great because it showed that this is difficult. That is also why the Minister says: of course a reading guide for this hard-to-access material must be in a different way. It's very clear that when scientists can't even agree on how to figure this out, it's of course also difficult for members of parliament to figure it out, and that's why you should have done it in a different way. And we are quite confident that we will do so in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225110624	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225110626	In other words, when the newspaper writes what the rapporteur thinks, it is not true. When scientists write but there's a lot of chatter to do. It's non-chatter, it's greenwashing, it's so manipulation of facts. I would like to ask one last question: does the rapporteur agree that, according to section 15 of the Constitution, this is the case regardless of whether Mr. René Christensen thinks he understands the fact that no minister can remain in his office after the Folketing has pronounced his distrust of him or her? Do we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225110705	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225110707	Yeah, that's what the Constitution says, and that's kind of right. I would also like to point out that we in no way distrust the Minister in any way. We have been a little disappointed that the reading guide has not been better in relation to how the figures have been presented. The Minister has also answered that question. She apologises and says that this will not be the case in the future, and we are quite comfortable with that. But that does not change the fact that the package still looks like it does. And then you have to remember, when you make those quotes from these researchers, we can talk about journalists and others; I'm not saying anyone is quoting anyone wrong... that it wasn't just the rhetoric they used in the hearing, certainly not. That was certainly not the rhetoric they were using in the hearing and I was there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225110747	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225110800	Thank you. Now we have talked a lot about the little creative accounting in relation to the marine environment and nitrogen emissions, but some other issues have also been raised: the issue of whether to send a bill to water users, i.e. whether drinking water is becoming more expensive because we need to protect it. In my own municipality, Aarhus, the officials have been worried, because if you allow to increase the norm, so fertilize something more, but at the same time say that it is not really possible at the place in question to take care of drinking water, you would have to pay compensation to farmers and that would be expensive for drinking water consumers. Then Mr. René Christensen to Mrs Ida Auken when she asked about this problem, that nitrate-sensitive areas should of course be taken into account. That's where I'd like to ask sir. René Christensen, whether it is a guarantee that if you as a municipality turn down the norm with reference to nitrate-sensitive areas, you should not give compensation to farmers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225110900	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225110902	It is not planned now that the municipalities can just forward the bill. The legislation we have today is going to run as it always has. With regard to this discussion on what this bill means, I would like to say that no farmer has been granted a pollution permit with this proposal. That is why the Minister is also given an authorisation, that is to say to make targeted regulation, that is to say that increased fertilization takes place in harmony with nature and the environment. It is probably more about the fact that you would really like it to be done in the municipalities in the future, so that the bill could just be passed on. But it's not like that. The legislation we have today will also work tomorrow, and this is not the way to get a pollution permit in no way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225110950	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225110952	However, it cannot be said, on the one hand, that this is targeted regulation, which we agree does not start yet, and, on the other hand, that nitrate-sensitive areas can be taken into account, which is why we can guarantee that drinking water does not become more expensive and then simply put it out without wanting to stand by it. Will the rapporteur give a guarantee that nitrate-sensitive areas are an okay reason to reduce the norm? Or is the rapporteur going to have to re-enchor his guarantee to consumers of drinking water?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111024	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111026	Targeted regulation will be carried out in harmony with nature and the environment. That's the whole premise. That is also why the blue card has been made, where things have been taken out. Now there will be a number of years in which we will have to roll out the targeted regulation. There comes these things, of course. It is not the case that agriculture is in any way in a position to pollute now. This has to happen in harmony with nature and the environment. That's why it ends with a green account. All the researchers also agreed on this at the hearing that we had.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111100	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111105	Thank you. In the last two weeks we have had a very big debate on the figures from the agricultural package. Specifically, we've been discussing this baseline effect. What we have been discussing in concrete terms has been whether you can pool the effects from 4 years and add them together for 1 year. This may sound a little technical, but you can compare it with the fact that if you make a budget for the Finance Act, you take the corporate tax for 4 years and put it into the budget for 1 year so that the income from corporate tax becomes four times as large as they should be. We have had a very big discussion about this. Sir. René Christensen has maintained that it is possible to do so, and he has reduced the problem to the fact that I had not understood the figures and that it had been thoroughly examined during the negotiations. Now I'm reading something in Politico today about sir. René Christensen: When did you realize that the government had pooled the years? As it is in Berlingske, Mr. René Christensen. And then it says it did on February 14th this year. Well, then, sir. René Christensen confirm that what he has said so far, that it has been thoroughly examined during the negotiations, is wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111226	I cannot confirm that in the negotiations we have not looked carefully at how we should use the baseline effect. It was clear to everyone how we used it. It was also very clear when we saw how we achieved the green accounting that the baseline effect was to be included. This is also very clear in the draft law. It did so at first reading and, of course, it did so at second reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111252	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111254	I have to ask you, sir. René Christensen is misquoted in Berlingske, where he says he has only now figured out how to use this baseline effect. Exactly the error of methodology that we have been discussing over the last two weeks has only now come to light. René Christensen, and he has not been aware of this during the negotiations? It is either a misquote or it is true that Mr. René Christensen has only found out now. And if it is true that he has only found out now, then there is something that is not connected in the storytelling that has been the last few weeks when God and every man have been told that it was about me not having followed the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111336	Thank you. With regard to 2012 as the reference year, I would like to say that it has been very much rolled up how the figures that we have been working on have been arrived at. I would say that the roll-up has only taken place after the researchers have come into play, and that is also what I have been referred to as saying. There's been a lot of progress on this. We've also had a hearing on how to use these numbers. It is quite true that the extra story about reference years and how to pool has come behind. I would like to confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111406	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111413	I'd like to sign for the speech that was given. I thought it was apt. I think it was scientifically well-founded and also politically well-founded in the sense that it was said quite precisely that this package makes a targeted regulation. It's a fight with 25 years of failed politics. It took a new minister. I thank you for that. Then I'd like to ask you something. I could understand that, sir. Simon Kollerup had understood at the hearing we all overheard the other day that scientist Jørgen E. Olesen thought this package should be black in its effects. I heard from the hearing that Jørgen E. Olesen said that the effects in the first few years were so small that they cannot be measured out in the streams. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur heard the same thing I heard, or whether the rapporteur heard it, as Mr. Simon Kollerup listened to that hearing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111504	I heard seven scientists say that this package is the right way to do it and that it is a green package in relation to the environment. I also heard clearly Jørgen E. Olesen say that almost no matter how you used these numbers, no one in the first few years could measure it out there. I think it's almost literal. No one will be able to measure it out there, in other words in the environment. That's right. I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111531	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111536	Thank you. Is it really the policy of the Danish People's Party that it is fair to send an extra bill of several hundred million kroner to the Danes, to Danish families, because with this package, farmers are allowed to spread more manure on the fields? Is it reasonable that Danish citizens should pay the bill for farmers to be allowed to fertilize more?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111610	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111613	I really don't understand the question. So I had a very clear feeling that Enhedslisten agreed that you should also have targeted regulation, which means that you can turn it up in some places. Well, we've had this kind of regime where you could drive at 80 km/h. Everywhere, even past school, but it was also only at 80 km/h. On the freeway. Now we are making targeted regulation and where the environment can bear it, including the nitrate-sensitive areas, you go in and compensate. Where there is no possibility or where it is not necessary, one can fertilise more. Well, isn't Enhedslisten in favour of us having targeted regulation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111650	Here you go, Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111655	That's bullshit, and I think everyone knows that. I ask again, and it would be so wonderful if we could get a clear answer: is it really the policy of the Danish People's Party that it is fair and right and a good idea that it is the Danes who will pay the bill for farmers to fertilize more? Because that's the consequence of this bill, and Mr. René Christensen well, I know that, and I think everyone else knows that too. Is that fair? Is that the policy of the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111733	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111736	I simply do not accept the question, because I do not know who is going to pay. This bill gives agriculture the opportunity to increase their turnover in harmony with nature and the environment, so that the environment actually gets better in the long run. This means that we can maintain our jobs in the slaughterhouses. That's a lot more turnover. So: Denmark gets richer • Denmark gets richer, the Danes get richer because we have made an agricultural package. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111803	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111809	Thank you. I just have to clarify once more to Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted that you don't say you). Thank you, Mr President. After all, the Danish People's Party was very much in agreement with Enhedslisten when in autumn 2013 we chose to distrust former Minister of Justice Morten Bødskov because he had misinformed the Danish Parliament. That is why it was actually my expectation that when a minister in a bourgeois government misinformed the Danish Parliament in the same way, the Danish People's Party would, as Enhedslisten did, as we were parliamentary foundations, act color blindly. And we are dealing here with a minister, a outgoing minister who has misinformed; who has said in consultation after consultation that the agricultural package goes in plus, also in the short term; who has supported it with an account which is deeply manipulative and which is forgery; who has misinformed the Folketing in written answers and orally in consultation. How can it be that in this case the Danish People's Party will hold hands under a minister who has misinformed the Danish Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111929	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111932	Well, we don't agree with that. We do not agree with Enhedslisten's interpretation, and then it is not much longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111941	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225111945	Well, it is very convenient when there is a minister who is supported by the Danish People's Party, but the fact is that things have been said that were contrary to the truth. But I would also like to ask a question. We have a constitution in which it is very clear that a minister who has a majority in Parliament against him can no longer remain a minister. Does the rapporteur think that it is in the spirit of the Constitution that we have a minister who is present today in the Folketing, despite the fact that a majority in the Folketing has announced that it no longer has confidence in the minister in question?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112022	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112025	I agree that this is what the Constitution says. The Danish People's Party is very pleased with the Minister, and we are pleased that the Minister is present today, where you have to deal with this proposal, which is so important for Danish agriculture, but also important, in terms of a different approach to how the environment is regulated. The way in which the majority which has distrusted the Minister has been knitted together is of course to be taken into that group. The Danish People's Party is not part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112053	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112100	Can the rapporteur not confirm that the Minister has said time and again in consultation after consultation that there will be a green plus with this package? And now that you know there isn't a green plus, but that there is a big minus, isn't that misleading the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112123	Well, we don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112126	Here you go, sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112130	So the rapporteur agrees that the Minister has repeatedly said that this package will result in a green plus. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112134	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112137	I agree that the minister has said that it ends in a green plus. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112146	Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112151	Thank you. With regard to the Danish People's Party's guarantees that this does not mean an extra bill for consumers, I simply cannot be quite sure what that guarantee is worth. Well, now you get a general permission to fertilize something more. Then there will be some municipalities which then say, in the words of the rapporteur, 'Well, we would like to wear belts and belts, and then consumers will have to pay'. That is the logic of today, and so it will be forward-looking. Can we not agree that when the general level of manure rises, there will be some farmers who will then come to the municipalities and say: Hey, if you want to go more with belt and braces, then you have to compensate us. And that bill goes to the consumer. So, when the general level increases, the bill goes up to consumers, of course. I guess that's pretty logical. And what is the guarantee that we as Danes do not get an extra bill, so worth it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112245	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112248	Well, then, we have not understood what it is that targeted regulation is all about. Targeted regulation does not mean that you just fertilize 100 per cent. in Denmark as a whole. That is not what targeted regulation is about. Targeted regulation is, of course, that you get the right to fertilize 100 per cent, but that you have to take the measures that need to be in relation to how it can be done in harmony with nature and the environment. That's what's in it. And that's why this is going to be green plus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112316	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112320	Well, I am sorry that I belong to the minority of Danes, experts and politicians in the Folketing who have not understood what this is all about. But then let me try again. When the level of manure increases and you look outside the municipalities are nervous to say that you are against that increase in your area, because then you have to compensate the farmers and that the bill for it will of course be for the consumers, then everything else will be equal ■ regardless of whether I have understood this correctly or not, or when it is phased in over time, it will mean that it will be more expensive for the Danes. I guess that's pretty logical.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112357	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112400	That's right. If the municipalities are against this increase and want to make some other measures, it is the municipalities that will pay. That is absolutely right. If it is because you are against it, it is true that it is the municipalities that will pay for it and thus the consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112417	Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112422	I would like to hear about what the rapporteur said: I do not know who is going to pay the bill. Was that correct? No? Then I'll rephrase the question. Sir. René Christensen then said: The Danes are getting richer from this package. And I'd like to know why. We have an answer from the Finance Minister saying that there are zero jobs in this package. We know that the bill is being sent to consumers and we know that some of the money for some of the compensatory measures comes, among other things. from the rural programme, they come from funds that should go to develop some of our rural areas, they come from taxpayers. Where is this growth coming from? Where are the Danes getting richer? Where is it that what the Danes get out of it exceeds the bill that you have to pay as a consumer and as a taxpayer?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112529	That does it by getting richer because we can produce some products. We are a food producing nation, and when we can make products of higher quality, we also get a higher price. That is not being questioned. This gives increased earnings to Denmark. We can produce some products that are worth more than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112549	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112552	How many extra pigs will be produced on the basis of this package?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112558	That depends on how many farmers want to take advantage of the opportunity there is. But a great deal of money has still been spent on stables. After all, we are now raising the standard from 1.4 to 1.7 pig units, so the possibility of producing more pigs for fattening is certainly present if the industry will have no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112614	Thank you. Then I would like to thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen from the Left as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112629	Thank you. We have made a good deal and I look forward with pleasure to having this bill voted through today. It's a win-win deal. We are doing something good for agriculture, the food sector, the environment and employment. It's green realism. We do not gamble with the environment and we do not harm the environment. We will also take care of the environment. We want to secure and create jobs, growth, exports and foreign exchange earnings, while also taking good care of the environment. This bill contributes significantly to ensuring a reasonable framework for agriculture and the food industry and the possibility of increasing the raw material base, and the bill allows increased exports and benefits growth and employment, particularly in rural areas. This will not only benefit the food and agriculture sector, but will benefit the whole of Denmark. There are approx. 10,000-12,000 full-time farmers in Denmark, but there are a total of approx. 140 000 to 150 000 jobs throughout the food sector. Each farmer thus creates at least ten additional jobs in the rest of society. It is our clear view that we must continue to have a large and varied agricultural and food sector, and it is, of course, a prerequisite for farmers to be able to provide the crops in the fields with the necessary manure. It is quite grotesque that we have reached that point, that farmers are forced to starve crops in the fields. We must do this and, of course, in balance with the environment. Finally, we can start phasing out the reduced nitrogen standards so that crops in the fields can instead be fertilised with the optimum amount of manure. Danish farmers have long been forced to starve their crops, so to speak, and this has had very major consequences for the industry. The University of Copenhagen has estimated the economic impact of the existing fertiliser regulations to somewhere between 1.3 and 1.8 billion. kr. a year. In other words, the current regulation has cost the food industry and thus the entire Danish society very dearly. Environmentally, it is good that we are now getting started with the paradigm shift away from the old general regulation and on to the new targeted regulation, which means that we can make a targeted environmental effort where it is needed. Virtually everyone has been talking about this for a very long time. In the context of this whole debate, we must also pay attention to the so-called non-deterioration rule, which says that we must not backtrack the environment, and neither do we. We do not gamble with the environment and we do not harm the environment. We will take care of the environment while at the same time ensuring that jobs and growth are created. I have also noted that the industry itself says that it will be cautiously estimated to provide 6 000 to 7 000 jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112935	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. First Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225112940	Time and again, our Minister for the Environment and Food has claimed that this agricultural package would bring a green plus for the environment. And to support this claim, we have been presented with a table that quite rightly shows a green plus every year from 2016. It has subsequently emerged that the table only looks like this because you have fiddled with the figures because you have manipulated because you have used numbers in a way that all researchers distance themselves from. Can the rapporteur confirm that the agricultural package will lead to an increase in emissions to our environment and our nature for the next four years of 7,996 tonnes of nitrogen?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113035	It is quite clear, also of the meetings that have been held and of what has been presented, and I also think of a great deal of what lies on the Ministry's website, that when you count it all, there is a plus over the years, and that is also what has been debated quite strongly for a long time. So I do not agree with the questioner's interpretation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113050	Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113052	I think we should free the Danish Parliament from maintaining this nonsense. Quite frankly, I think that we should start to tell the truth from the platform of the Folketing. Even if we take all the years with this agricultural package, it's all if we take all the years. So no matter how you juggle these numbers, how you turn them upside down, this is an environmental minus. I think it would suit the Left today after this long process at least to stand by their numbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113133	Well, there's no tampering with it. There's no tampering with it. If one moment such goes out in reality and sees how the reality is out there, is it affected so negatively? No, it does not, when you count it all, and that is also stated in the annexes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113147	Sir. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113154	I just have to ask quite simply: does the agricultural package provide a green plus isolated in 2016?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113201	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113203	I'm dealing with reality. If we go out in reality and look at what the overall effects are, then we see that there is a plus. Then it's connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113211	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113214	I think we're gonna have to take that one again. In isolation, does the agricultural package provide a green plus in 2016? The rapporteur can no doubt in his papers just pull out the table the Minister has informed the Parliament and read on the line called the difference. It is the one who tells us what the isolated effect of the agricultural package is. If the rapporteur can get a green plus out of it, I will simply give him a box of cream balls.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113243	What's interesting is to see the total effect when we count it all. It's like, if we have a handball or football country game, you can't just count one half of the game with which you have to count the whole game. When we look at the total result, it's in plus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113256	Now I don't know if you were meant as a man. I'll take that as it is. Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113305	Something suggests that there is a majority in the Folketing voting through this agricultural package. There is also one element that is at least interesting afterwards, and it is whether the EU does not recognise the parliament's agricultural package. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur a question. It has been sent to the Danish Parliament in reply 24 to the bill, so I guess the rapporteur has read it, namely the various minutes between the Ministry of Food and the European Commission, where it is clear that in November, when all the figures are submitted for each year, the Commission believes that this is a problematic agricultural package, an agricultural package that will have legal consequences. When the Ministry of Food subsequently changes the calculation method, the European Commission will reply in February that it looks more sensible. Is the reason why the government has chosen to mess with the figures, that you are afraid of a matter before the European Commission, and does the rapporteur really think that the Commission is not able to calculate the figures as well, since seven researchers could?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113418	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113419	I have full confidence in the discussions that will take place between the Ministry, the officials and the European Union, and that we will find a way to get this sorted out if there is any ambiguity. What is at stake is precisely the correct answer to the fact that we are complying with the commitments, including the so-called non-degradation rule. So I'm quite calm that you're gonna get the hang of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113440	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113444	and also the Minister is quite cocky on behalf of the European Union, but if you look at the record back from 27 November, it is clear that if the agricultural package goes to the negative end of the EU's water framework directive, and it is clearly based on the hearing we had the other day that it does the agricultural package, it will have legal consequences. So is the reason why the Left and the Government do not want to recognise that the figure is fancy, that you are afraid of an EU case? And is it not naive to think that the Commission cannot count on it as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113521	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113523	Well, the numbers aren't gonna be tampered with. It is quite natural that there are some questions that need to be answered. That is, of course, what we are going to do, so I am quite calm that this situation is clarified and that we are complying with our directive obligations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113535	Then it is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113541	Thank you. I think this green plus thing is a little interesting. Now it is the case that DF's rapporteur was on just now, and he said to BT: we have known from the outset that the package did not go in isolation in plus. So I just want to know if the rapporteur agrees with that statement. Does the rapporteur agree that the package in isolation, if you look only at the agricultural package, not everything else, does not go green plus?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113608	Well, I have the answer, and I relate to reality, and there it is clear that you count it all. If I'm supposed to illustrate it figuratively, it's like playing a handball game or football game, you're also gonna have to count both half-times, that is, the whole game. And when we do that, it's in plus on the bottom line.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113620	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113623	It is difficult to know what to do with someone who really denies reality, but we must then deal with it. I think it is remarkable that as a party that sits in government which presents legislation and which now intends to vote through an agricultural package, we will not be dealing with what the effect of that agricultural package is. That is, of course, what you are voting on; it is not aquatic environment plans or an overall account of how Denmark's nitrogen emissions look, it is actually the agricultural package. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur once again whether he can confirm, as the researchers also said at the hearing, that the agricultural package in isolation does not go in plus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113708	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113711	I am quite clear that the same question will come lots of times, and the answer will of course be the same, namely that we have to count it all out when we go out in reality and see how it is. The rules and directive obligations are there and, overall, of course, they will be added. I am also quite sure that the questioner is fully aware of this. So it's about dealing with reality, and then the questioner can put it up in all the ways the questioner wants, I'm just dealing with the overall result. And so it is also the case that the researchers did not agree entirely either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113738	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113742	Now the rapporteur is on the platform and not on the school bench, but one more time: can we agree on this and it is not politics, it is a calculation that if you emit 8,000 tonnes of nitrogen and there is a small emissions of 2,000 tonnes, you have over a period up to 2021 an additional emission of 6,000 tonnes of nitrogen? The rapporteur should not make all sorts of political considerations or say whether he or she recognizes one or the other. This is an equation: Can you put two lines below that 8,000 minus 2,000 is 6,000?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113822	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113824	But the questioner's going in and making various calculations stands for the questioner's own account. I can't go into that. I can't confirm that. I can just look at the overall result. That is what I, as a politician, am dealing with, and that is where we are complying with the directive obligation. I can read it, and there's a plus on the bottom line. It's fine, just like it should be. And then we do not comply with the degradation rule. I think that is a good thing, and that is exactly the basis for raising the perspective. I find it a little strange that, in such a debate as this one, one cannot gain a little more perspective on what it means for jobs, growth and employment and cohesion in the economy here in Denmark in other ways. It might be nice to get it in, but it's obviously some other details you'd like to hang on to, and fine with it. But I am delighted that there is a plus on the bottom line.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113907	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113911	There's not a plus in the package. It is in the form that the rapporteur will certainly have before him. It was said without a doubt by the researchers themselves and by the Minister in the end that during the difference • the rapporteur can look at his paper • it says minus 6,000 during the period covered by the package. Then the rapporteur asks from the perspective. The point is, this is a huge negative for the environment. The perspective is that it provides zero jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225113946	We can then easily keep driving around in the details that the questioner will be driving around in. I am just pleased that this is also a good agreement for the environment and that it is a good agreement for the industry that can strengthen the conditions of competition. It has been said by the industry itself that this means 6 000 to 7 000 jobs, so we are heading in the right direction with it. As far as technicalities are concerned, I have answered that many times, and I should like to do so again: overall, when we go out and look at reality, there is a plus for the environment too, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114013	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114021	Thank you. I note that the rapporteur of the Left is lying as much as the Minister for Agriculture does. If the rapporteur really has that table before him, he should look at the line where there is something about difference. This is where it is clear that the increase in nitrogen pollution over the next four years is on average 2 000 tonnes per year. years. If we are to deal with reality, it is like uncleaned toilet water from 400,000 people. And if the agricultural rapporteur would rather have it in animal units and in high-performance dairy cows, it is 20,000 dairy cows whose nitrogen passes into our aquatic environment completely uncleaned. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not true that this agricultural package has a negative environmental impact over the next four years and that there will then be two years of positive environmental impact. That is what the Minister has lied about, and that is why there is a majority that does not trust the Minister. I'd like to know if it's not true that this table has to be carefully seen from the differential line that's there and not from the manipulated bottom line.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114128	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114131	Well, I relate to the total, and what it's like in reality, and there's plus on the bottom line. Then you can set all sorts of middle bills, and I'm not going to go into how Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen will make his own calculations about it. I relate to the overall result and how reality is, and there's the result in plus. So I welcome the fact that the industry itself signs that there will be 6,000-7,000 jobs in it and that it is also expected in other ways to strengthen the Danish economy. So I think that's good. And then we come to what I also highlighted in my rapporteur's speech, namely that it is a wind-win situation that we can do something good for the industry, employment and the economy, and that at the same time we are taking good care of the environment. And, by the way, so do we. I think the questioner is a little forgetting that non-degradation rule. We simply must not move backwards on the environment, and neither do we.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114216	Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114220	Now the rapporteur has spoken untruely in the past when the rapporteur has said in the newspapers that this agricultural package had a positive environmental impact over all the years. I have then asked the Minister a § 20 question, No. 426 and received an answer. That's not really my number. It is the Minister's figures that have been handed over where the manipulated bottom line is, and that is the problem. These are not my figures, they are the figures of the Minister, and I think the rapporteur should do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114254	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114257	When we use these numbers and use them all together and add it all together, which we have marked several times, there's a plus on the bottom line, and I think it's worth it. I also think it is worthwhile to welcome the creation of jobs, growth and employment, while at the same time taking good care of the environment. And that's exactly what you do. I am also aware that the questioner has not yet mentioned the fact that we will then have a paradigm shift to the targeted regulation. A lot of people have been talking about this for a very long time, and I am glad that we can get to grips with it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114321	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114331	- Sir... Erling Bonnesen confirm that the researchers who have supplied the figures in question and which end up in a green plus refer to the way in which the Minister has used their figures as creative accounting and as erroneous and misunderstood? Creative accounting, mistaken and misunderstood are not my words; they are the words of specialists. - Sir... Erling Bonnesen confirm that's how they write about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114405	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114408	I cannot confirm the questioner's thesis. I can say, after listening to the debate and also the consultation with the researchers, that they are quite disagreeable. There are some who say that it will affect a lot and some who say that it will affect very little and that it has virtually no influence etc. So the researchers disagree on things, but I cannot go into the questioner's various intercepts and theses about it. I can only note that the professional basis and figures of the agreement we have reached are in order. I think we've made a good deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114434	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114437	Well, I didn't ask you about sir. Erling Bonnesen thought it was a good deal or a bad deal. I asked if the rapporteur could confirm that the researchers who have supplied the figures to the Ministry say that the way the Ministry has used these figures is wrong and is an expression of creative accounting and misinformation. They say it not only, they write it too, which means that we have it in black and white. Why can we not have just a little common ground instead of just saying that these are private assessments? This is the ministry's way of using the specialists' figures, which is why, of course, they have objected. Can't we even use it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114518	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114520	I attended the hearing the other day and I have read the things that lie there. I can only say that the researchers disagree, and it is also fair that the researchers disagree. We are politicians and we listen to the various information that is available and then we make some decisions. I am glad that, when we count it all together, there is a plus on the bottom line, also in relation to the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114539	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114549	Thank you. Unlike the Left, I do not think that our environment and our water are a detail. In fact, I think it's insanely important, and the fact is that this agricultural package will have a negative impact on our environment in 2016, 2017 and 2018. It is embarrassing that the Left will not even say it out loud in the Chamber today. But what I want to ask is really the bill that is passed on to the Danes. For this package, farmers are allowed to pour more manure into the fields. The bill for the pollution is sent to the Danes. I have heard the Prime Minister say countless times that it must not be more expensive to be a Dane. Isn't the consequence of this package that being a Dane becomes more expensive because farmers are allowed to pour more manure into the fields?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114647	We fully agree on one thing: it is incredibly important that we take good care of both the environment in general and the aquatic environment. I think everyone agrees on that. I didn't hear anyone say the opposite, and I don't think anyone does either. We fully agree that good care must be taken, and so do we. After all, the basis of the package is also to move to targeted regulation, and it also emerged from the debate before, when a fine answer was given, that if there are some specific areas that require special action, that is exactly what the targeted regulation is also about. Then it is a question of taking the stakes exactly where they are needed. As far as the first few years are concerned, we have answered several times that this is also plus on the bottom line.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114726	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114729	No, you don't take care of the environment with this package; you do the opposite. In addition, I asked one, I think, very simple question: is it not true that the bill for farmers to spread more manure in the fields is being passed on to the Danes? I do not think that is fair, and I do not think it is related to what we have heard again and again from all the members of the Left, namely that it should not be more expensive to be a Dane. I ask again, and this time I would like an answer: is it not true that it will be more expensive to be a Dane if this package is adopted, because the bill for farmers to spread more manure on the fields will be passed on to the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114820	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114823	The questioner completely overlooks the situation that I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, namely that farmers are now forced to subjugate and starve crops. Then we say that it is fine that we allow the crops to now be given the manure they need. And, overall, in the table which has been asked a great deal of times and which I should like to answer again, it has also been calculated with other environmental compensatory measures, baseline, etc. There's the answer to that a lot of times. If, at the end of the day, there should be an area, a place, to look at, then the targeted environmental regulation is precisely that of putting in where it is needed, and that is what everyone agrees with in the future. So I do not agree with the questioner's interpretation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114907	Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114913	Thank you. It must not be more expensive to be a Dane. Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen has just asked about this and, frankly, the rapporteur is somewhat unclear about this. We heard Mr. René Christensen from Dansk Folkeparti give a guarantee: It will not be one crown more expensive for water users. Then we have heard the minister from the government say that yes, it is true that it is becoming more expensive, but it is of course small change. I have to ask the rapporteur: can the rapporteur give a guarantee that it will not be a penny more expensive?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114943	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225114946	As the questioner probably well knows, there's a municipal set of rules and angles on this, and then there's the state part, in relation to what we're dealing with here. And there isn't in this that it's going to be more expensive for the Danes. This package has a whole, completely different aim. It is, of course, as we have replied to a lot of times, and I should like to repeat this: we need to increase the growth base so that we can create more jobs and growth and employment. In relation to the environment, there is also the so-called non-degradation rule, and it is quite central in terms of answering this question. We simply must not burden and harm the environment. Neither do we, and that is what is being clarified and documented here. If the municipalities themselves want to do some other extra things in other ways, I think the questioner knows well, but then it is within the municipal set of rules of the game, and as far as that is concerned, we have a decentralized regime here in Denmark. So we cannot go in and say how the municipalities will deal with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115042	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115047	But with all due respect, you cannot make legislation in here, as the municipalities then say has a consequence, and then say that yes, it is not our fault. It is true that we have made the legislation, but it is the municipalities that are making sure that drinking water is saved. Well, I have to ask you again: Erling Bonnesen guarantee it won't be one crown more expensive? We heard the Minister say that it is not so much more expensive. - Sir... Erling Bonnesen guarantee that it will not be more expensive for drinking water consumers?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115113	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115114	Well, it is in the questioner's premise that the package here should cause damage and damage to the environment. We do not, of course, do, and that is also what is shown in tables and accounts. So the questioner's premise and thesis do not hold up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115131	Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115134	Thank you. Now I'm gonna try this with whether the package goes in plus. We have this simple equation: 8,000 t minus 2,000 t is 6,000 t more nitrogen. That is the overall picture of the package. I would like to try to ask a little differently: would nature be better off without this package if you didn't bring it into play?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115159	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115201	I think it's fine that we can drive around in the various details. Overall, of course, the answer is the same, because you can read it in the different papers. Overall, when you count it all together, you can see that it is in plus, also for the environment, and that is why you can be pleased that we are also taking good care of the environment, in order to implement the agricultural package and create the basis for some more growth and employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115222	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115224	However, this is due to the initiatives that have been launched. In fact, this is due to some very uncertain initiatives that come to the end of the package. Can the rapporteur confirm that the researchers we had past the other day for expert consultation agreed that there is a great deal of uncertainty as to how these instruments will work? It is partly a purely technical question because you do not know how effective they are, partly many of them are volunteers, and it is very difficult to guess how many farmers will actually throw themselves at them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115258	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115300	I also heard that scientists were, we must say, rather disagree, if we are to say the least, about a number of things. That's the way it is. It is fair enough that scientists may disagree and give different considerations on what they are now examining. Then it is our job as politicians to take a position on it. This is what we are doing in relation to the package here, both in terms of the negotiations and the preparatory work that has been done in the Ministry. The conclusion is that on the bottom line, when we count it all together, there's a plus for the environment. That's exactly what we've been aiming for. That's good. I am delighted about that. That is why we can say with a straight back that we also take good care of the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115339	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115346	That the Left is prepared to sacrifice our nature to ensure, among other things. big landowners earnings, there's not so much new in it. However, I am somewhat surprised at the position of the Left on the democratic aspect of this. In our constitution it is very, very clear that a minister who does not enjoy the support of the Folketing cannot remain in office. That is why we are in a rather historic and grotesque situation, where a minister who has been distrusted by a majority has taken his place over here in the ministerial gallery. Can the rapporteur mention a single historical precedent in that a minister who has been distrusted by a majority in the Folketing and who has been said no longer to be trusted has refused to resign and, on the contrary, has remained in office?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115438	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115440	To the first question, whether we are going to sacrifice nature and the environment or what it was, I would say: no one will, nor are we, and I have clearly indicated this in both my rapporteur's speech and in my previous answer. We will also take good care of the environment, we will also have clean water in our taps, and we will ensure that too. We can just refer to the basis of the decision, and there is the answer several times. With regard to the other issues raised by the questioner by going back into parliamentary history, I cannot help the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115511	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115514	There is no precedent of that. We all know that it is the case that when it has become clear that a majority of parties in the Folketing are not behind a minister, that minister resigns. That is why we are in a completely grotesque situation. I believe that this is an expression of a very, very violent dispute with the tradition of the people's regime in Denmark. I think we remember Viggo Hørup's words: nothing above or beside the Folketing. That is exactly what is happening here. We have a government which refuses to comply with the wishes of a majority which says that there is no confidence in a minister. This is contrary to the way in which all other governments in Danish history have done so. Does the rapporteur think that this is an expression of respect for the people's rule, for respect for the spirit of our constitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115606	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115608	I think the Minister is doing a good job. I hope that the Minister can continue for a very long time, and that is what I can respond to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115617	Then there's two questioners left, and I'm gonna let them through before lunch. It's first, sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115627	So the rapporteur has a wish that the Minister should be able to sit for a very, very long time. However, can the rapporteur not confirm that Article 15 (3) of the Constitution provides that: 1, stands and I quote "No minister can remain in office after the Danish Parliament has pronounced its distrust of him"? And now, of course, it is a her talk here, but isn't that what the Constitution says, and isn't it a little strange that we have a minister when there is distrust in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115658	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115701	We who are in here have all signed the Constitution, and we must abide by it, and I am quite sure that we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115707	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115709	But then perhaps the rapporteur can try to clarify a little what the rapporteur thinks the wording can remain in his office after Parliament has expressed its distrust, which means if it is that the rapporteur thinks it is good that there is a minister when there is distrust of the Minister in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115732	As I have answered once, we have all signed the Constitution. And I am absolutely sure that we are complying with the Constitution, including in these situations, and I am quite safe and calm about that. I hope that the Minister can continue for a very, very long time, and I think the Minister is doing a good job.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115744	The last question is from Mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115750	Thank you. The question has sometimes been asked whether the Left will give the same guarantee as DF, because DF has guaranteed that drinking water will not be more expensive as a result of the agricultural package. If the rapporteur then answers this question, the rapporteur says that the rapporteur does not recognise the premises and theses that are in favour of the question. I fully agree that there is a huge conflict in the bourgeois bloc about what is the content of the agricultural package, and figures etc., but is it not rather strange that the Danish People's Party can give it a guarantee on the very simple question, i.e. whether this agricultural package means that it will be more expensive to be a Dane, but that the Left will not give it a guarantee? Can the rapporteur just give the guarantee that the agricultural package does not make it more expensive to be a Dane?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115832	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115835	That's what Mr. Jeppe Bruus overlooks here, is that there are like two blocks of rules. There is what the municipalities have the competence to do, and there is, of course, what we here in the Folketing and in the government etc. is competent to do so. And that is clear and clear, and that is also where it breaks for Mr. Jeppe Bruus that this decision and this package, when we get it all talked together, do not burden the environment, and thus the answer to it is actually given. If, then, the municipalities want to do some other things of their own motion within their sphere of competence, that is their decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115908	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115911	[Sound emission]. Then it is not I who misunderstood the answer, and that is completely black talk. Why can't the Left just give the completely simple guarantee that the Danish People's Party can give without all sorts of other lirumlarum? Does the agricultural package mean that it will be more expensive to be a Dane? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115936	There is not in the package here that it should be more expensive to be a Dane, and there is not in the package that it burdens and harms the environment. On the contrary, and we have answered that several times, there is a plus here, and then the municipalities have some other competences to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225115949	Thank you. Then there are no more questioners, and I shall suspend the sitting. The next rapporteur after the lunch break, where we will start again at 1 p.m. 13 is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225130138	The sitting is resumed. Unfortunately, I have to say that we have to postpone the sitting for ten minutes. We have technical problems, and it is not because I am a debutante up here, but there are simply technical problems. We'll postpone the meeting for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225131034	Then we are ready to resume the meeting after the little technical obstacle here. We will continue with the third reading of Bill No. L 68, and in the series of rapporteurs we have come to Maria Reumert Gjerding from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225131059	Thank you very much. Today we are in an absolutely absurd situation which, as far as I know, is unprecedented. We third deal with a law in which the Folketing has still not received any accurate information on the consequences of the law. Several months ago, we asked the Minister to provide an inventory of the environmental effects of the agricultural package. We have an account and it shows that the environment will go for plus all years. It's a table that shows that this agricultural package at no point in time will in no year burden nature and the environment at all. The Minister for the Environment and Food has repeated this to the Danish Parliament over and over again. This has been done on consultation and has been done in written answers to questions. This is a misdirection. The figures in this inventory have been manipulated. Figures have been added which could not be added together and a single research stand has distanced itself from the method used by the Ministry in the inventory of the environmental effects of the agricultural package. And, of course, it is not only the Folketing that has been misled in this matter... so is the people. That is why I would like to take the floor today to review all the fancy that has been going on with the environmental accounts behind the agricultural package. You have pooled years that could not be pooled; you have added 4 years together and added it up to a single year to get a figure that was high enough; you have included compensatory measures with full effect, so that already in 2016 there would be a positive effect; there is no evidence for this; you have moved on base years and made a misguided and overly optimistic projection; you have imposed nitrogen reductions on other countries so that Denmark could escape cheaper without asking them; and you have provided that the EU accepted relaxations that have not yet taken place. All this has been done in order to present a positive environmental account to the Folketing. In addition, there are quite a lot of obvious shortcomings in the material that support Bill L 68, which we are discussing today. Probably this bill and the whole agricultural package are in breach of EU directives, and that is why we are so stubbornly holding onto this misguided environmental account. Because according to the Habitats Directive, according to the Nitrates Directive and the Water Framework Directive, not just a single year should be allowed to increase the pollution of our nature and the environment. That's what you've been so busy covering up. There is also a lack of a socio-economic assessment of the impact of the agricultural package. Today it has emerged in a report from GEUS that the nitrate content of our groundwater will increase as a result of this legislative package. The bill for the increased pollution of our drinking water ends only in one place. It ends in Danish families, with Danish citizens who now have to pay hundreds of millions to compensate farmers for not polluting on top of vulnerable drinking water resources. Furthermore, it is not clear how many extra pesticides farmers will use as a result of this bill and this agricultural package. This will probably mean, in particular, an increase in the use of straw shorteners, which is a deeply problematic and very harmful pesticide to health. This misdirection and these obvious flaws and the inadequate treatment and documentation for this bill and the whole package's effects will have many consequences: Danish citizens will be stuck on an extra bill, the whole package is probably illegal, and the package as such will have severe consequences for our nature and environment. The agricultural package, for example, will: negatively affect fjords and the environment for 10-15 years to come. What remains is that the basis of this law is manipulated. The Folketing has been deliberately deceived, and that is why a majority in the Folketing expressed distrust of the Minister for the Environment and Food several days ago. But this minister, in whom the Folketing still does not trust, is still away in the ministerial gallery and is still in charge of this bill. I believe that what we are witnessing today is a deep disrespect for the Danish people's rule. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225131645	We say thank you and move forward in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225131706	Thank you. Now we have heard a number of rapporteurs talk about the world going completely low. We pour nitrogen into our waters, both the small streams, the inner fjords and the open sea. Nature will be destroyed, agriculture will again appear as a huge sinner, and it will destroy everything for everyone in Denmark. I think that this discussion has come out entirely out of proportion. I think we should bear in mind that the huge paradigm shift proposed in the agricultural package is a paradigm shift based on some of the recommendations of the previous government's Nature and Agriculture Commission, namely a paradigm shift, in which we move from a general regulation of the agricultural industry to a targeted regulation. That is to say, there are some places where a little more will be fertilised, there are other places that can be fertilised a little less, and we will now be able to do that in a way that means that we no longer just generally have to subjugate with 18-20 per cent. in Danish agriculture. The whole understanding that this will result in a better balance between nature and occupation for the benefit of both nature and industry has been completely overshadowed by a nerdy discussion on how to calculate some middle bills in an academic world. Scientists have agreed in the hearing we had the other day that such a method of calculation would not be used in academy. On the other hand, the same researchers agree that the environmental accounts will in all likelihood go in plus from 2021. In the same way, in the contract circle, we fully agree and agree with the researchers that it may be difficult and that it would be insecure to predict the consequences of such a major reform, and we therefore of course say that it will probably be necessary to calibrate along the way. If there are problems we have not foreseen, we will of course go in and address these problems immediately. I think it is a pity that the reform, which I am actually quite convinced that in ten years' time everyone will look back on and describe as a very visionary reform, has now ended up in a bickering where words are going back and forth in this Parliament hall, which I think is completely out of proportion to what is really the substance of the matter. We in the Liberal Alliance therefore very much welcome the fact that we are about to vote in favour of this reform. We have actually entered into these negotiations with a different starting point from what V, K and O went to them with. In fact, VKO made a joint agreement before the last parliamentary elections and went to the polls to make a reform that contains many of the things that lie here. We would like something different and more in the Liberal Alliance, but we have participated in the negotiations, we have asked questions, we have received answers, and we are actually very pleased that we have reached where we are. So, as the situation is today, we must say that we are satisfied. We think this is good for both nature and industry. We are completely satisfied with our Prime Minister, we are completely satisfied with our Minister for Food and we are completely satisfied with this package. So we have no reason but to be happy, and we hope that this joy of reform can at some point come to the surface also for all those who are incredibly worried and very angry at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225132059	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments, and the first to ask for a brief comment is Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225132107	Thank you very much. I think it is incredibly arrogant to call it that the Folketing has consistently received incorrect information, a small technicality about a method of calculation. That is not the case. If you want to make an agricultural package that increases pollution, the least you can do is stand by it instead of starting to flick and manipulate to make us all believe that it is the opposite. We were both at that research hearing, and the researchers said it's extremely uncertain what this is going to bring about. It depends on where nitrogen emissions take place, it depends on wind and weather, because if it rains more, it will be really bad. There was even a researcher who used words as a potential environmental disaster. But I understand that's not what the Liberal Alliance recognises. So let me just ask quite clearly: can the Liberal Alliance guarantee that this agricultural package can at no time be registered in the environment and will at no time result in increased oxygen loss and all that we have been fighting for 30 years to avoid?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225132211	It goes without saying that the Liberal Alliance cannot guarantee that in any way whatsoever. There are so many factors involved in this. However, I also think that the hearing showed the difference between academy and a parliament. In a research context, it is the nature of research to challenge, to criticise, to press on on old truths to bring out new ones. This is what creates new scientific insights, and it turned out in this panel that we both participated in, that one researcher thought that this would have violent consequences, while another researcher thought that the increase in emissions that would come would be so marginal that it could hardly be recorded. It is in this context that we, as politicians in a parliament, must have the courage to make decisions that are visionary • of course, with the reservation that if things turn out to be quite different from those predicted, we will have to change. But if we were always to wait for all scientists to agree on everything, we could never make political decisions. We live in a democracy, not in a meritocracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225132319	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225132321	What the researchers all agreed was that the government's environmental accounts do not hold up. Nobody backs those maths, no one at all. If you go a little further, you can see that the researcher who said that this could be an environmental disaster was an expert on the marine environment, while the researcher who doubted whether it could be recorded was an expert on soil and climate. So I also think that if you are interested in the consequences for the environment and nature of all of us, you also have to take expertise seriously and listen to those who know about our marine environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225132400	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225132402	We listen to everyone, both those who know about the marine environment, and those who know about agriculture, of course we do. But at some point you have to raise the countboard and say: if we want something, if we want to have both nature and agriculture in Denmark, we will have to carry out reforms that create a better balance than that which has been so far. That's what happened in this case. We are going into this with open eyes, and I am quite sure that all researchers who agreed that with the knowledge we have now and the uncertainty associated with it, this will be a plus for the environment when we reach 2021. In fact, I think we should all be pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225132442	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Christian Poll from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225132445	Thank you. I would like to start by asking the rapporteur whether it is not true that all parties have said that targeted regulation is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225132457	That is absolutely right, and I also started by saying that I think it is a very great pleasure. And I think we should all be pleased that we are actually making this paradigm change, which everyone agrees is good.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225132510	That's fine, because then we don't have to discuss it anymore. It has been raised several times in this Chamber today. Then I'll ask you something else. There was a researcher, Jørgen E. Olesen, who said that you might not be able to measure it here, but I asked later in that debate exactly Jørgen E. Olesen what porridge cutting, for example. will have consequences for the environment through nitrogen emissions from the fields. He said it would have enormous significance. It is very uncertain and depending on the instruments chosen to use, how important the nitrogen load is. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225132559	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225132603	It is obvious that whatever means are employed, it will of course be important. When you do porridge cutting, it is among other things. to get water out of here. It is simply to ensure that Denmark does not become ever-absorbed. And that, of course, is important, and in this reform, as in all other reforms, we must weigh up against each other: what are the advantages and disadvantages? What is the overall result? And there we know that the overall result in 2021 will be an improvement for the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225132632	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225132634	It really surprises me that a former pro-rector at Aarhus University has so little respect for professional knowledge and its importance out of the real world that one can completely ignore, that Professor after Professor, those who have supplied the figures, says that they seem misleading; that the reality is decorated; that the environmental effect is blown up; that it is misinformation and creative accounting. I just want to know if the rapporteur was not just a little bit worried when she read her newspaper that day.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225132704	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225132706	I always listen to scientists and, as I said earlier, it is the nature of research that it must be critical, it must challenge, it must break new paths. So there's nothing weird about the scientists going critically into this. There is just the difference between academy and a parliament that in a parliament we have to make decisions, even if we cannot figure out with a hundred percent certainty how this will affect things. That is what we have done before and at the same time said that if something happens that we have not been able to foresee, we must, of course, intervene immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225132740	Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225132741	Mrs Mette Bock was a promoter of knowledge dissemination, and it is not exactly possible to say that we are witnessing this at the moment, because it is almost the opposite that we are experiencing. That is simply not what happened during the hearing. At the hearing there was a clear consensus that the government's way of using their figures did not hold a complete consensus that the way the government had used the figures was wrong. It wasn't a methodical discussion. There was no disagreement. There was agreement. Hasn't Mrs Mette Bock with her past had the slightest urge to clean up, so that there is just the slightest respect for the professionalism of the work that the Folketing does?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225132816	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225132818	I've noticed that this way of making these middle bills has been challenged, and of course I'm listening to that, but I would like to repeat that there is a difference between academy and a parliament. It will be the case that a parliament also has to say: we have to try to look into reality. Scientists can sit with their methods of calculation. We say here: we must now try to go out, and then instead of making models and calculations we will look at how this influence is going to be out in reality. And when it comes to the environment, it is clear that many factors other than the instruments now being rolled out will have an impact. For example: will wind, weather, rain, drought etc. have an influence and therefore have to be calibrated. There's nothing unusual about that. But the point is that it is the reality that we are now beginning to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225132904	Then it's mr. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225132906	Thank you. The rapporteur emphasizes the obvious point that this House is not a scientist but a parliament. It is a parliament that feels misled; it is a parliament where a majority of Members have said that they have mistrust of the Minister and now a motion of censure is being tabled. I just have to ask the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance: what would the Liberal Alliance think about us taking just one thought example? If the Liberal Alliance tabled a motion of censure to a minister and there was a majority for it in the Folketing, but the minister stayed? Would that be accepted in the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225132945	I have to say that there is a majority including a bourgeois party that wishes to raise a motion of censure on the Minister. Good old Plato, a philosopher of antiquity, said that not until the philosophers become kings, and the kings become philosophers, we will have a good world to live in. In other words, he said that we must have those who have the insight to lead, otherwise things will go very wrong. It's not like this. We are politicians, and that is why you are entitled to raise a motion of censure. We do not support that motion of censure. We have full confidence in the Minister, but we cannot but note that that is what you want, and you seem to think that this matter is so great that it should lead to the overthrow of a minister who, exceptionally, has access to his resort area. Actually, I think that's fucked up. But it's your choice, and I can't do anything but say: then that's what it has to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133039	Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133040	I did not get much answer from that, so I am just trying to do the short version: if the Liberal Alliance had at one time to raise a motion of censure against a minister and there was a majority of the parliamentary parties that would back up the Liberal Alliance, what would be the position of the Liberal Alliance if the minister were to sit?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133100	As part of the rules of the game, we had to note that it is the privilege of a Prime Minister to appoint a government, including the appointment and dismissal of individual ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133111	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133114	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. We also think, basically, that there are a lot of good things in this agricultural package and we look forward to voting it through. But we have had a lot of debate on the figures behind it. I understand from Mrs Mette Bock that it does not make any further impression that all the professionals who have spoken, without exception, say that the way in which the government has pooled 4 years to 1 year in the baseline effect of 4 years of reductions has been taken and then added together for 1 year and thus made the reductions 4 times as large as they should be.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's what all professionals say. It doesn't make any impression. But I also understand from Mrs Mette Bock that she claims to have a much greater insight into these figures than the other more mortal people who have participated in the negotiations. Therefore, I would ask Mrs Mette Bock to explain why it is all right to add four years to one year, not about the general uncertainty in the figures, but just the fact that pool the figures I would like to hear an explanation for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133223	The way these accounts have been put together has been examined in the course of the negotiations that have taken place. At no time has it been concealed that these are difficult calculations, it is difficult to get things together, nor has there been any concealment of what the reasons for the figures as they appear have been. It has been quite openly laid out, and therefore we have looked into this with completely open eyes. I'm sorry to hear that Mr. Knox... Rasmus Jarlov stares blindly at a method of calculation and gets mad at it instead of enjoying that this leads to a plus for the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133301	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133303	I also regret that we need to spend so much time on a method of calculation when the only solution to it when you make a mistake is to go out and acknowledge it and add the right numbers. That's why we're in this situation: that's because the Folketing can't get the right information. I didn't get an answer to the question. I asked Mrs Mette Bock whether she would explain why it is reasonable to add four years to one year. When you have this incredibly great insight and when it has been explained as thoroughly as Mrs Mette Bock says it is, you have to be able to explain it. Then I would like to say in parenthesis that the list of people who think it should be explained thoroughly is getting shorter and shorter after René Christensen from the Danish People's Party has rejected it today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133344	So, unfortunately, I think that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov forgot to listen to what it was, sir. René Christensen said when he was up on this platform not long ago. He said, in fact, that he continued to trust the Minister and that he continued to trust that the way in which these figures had been screwed up was a way whose premises we had all been examined loudly and clearly. I think it is a pity that we are putting the survival of a government at risk because we are interested in some methods of calculation, which means that we will have marginally increased emissions, which will end up going in plus for the environment. Frankly, I find that a pity.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133422	Thank you very much. The next one is sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133425	The Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslisten disagree on many things................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ This was the case with the Public Procurement Act, and this has been the case in a number of other cases, such as: When we together forced the former Minister of Justice, sir. Morten Bødskov, to resign after he misinformed the Folketing. Now we are faced with a new situation in which the Liberal Alliance, and not the Enhedslisten, is a parliamentary basis for a minister who has misinformed the Folketing. It is not a question of some tables and something else. It is a question of repeatedly claiming, in consultation with the public, that the impact of the agricultural package on the environment was positive as from next year, and that is a lie. That's not true. How can the Liberal Alliance this time hold hands under a government that has misinformed the Folketing? Is it just because it's a minister you think is clever and industrious that it's okay to misinform the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133534	Thank you. The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133536	Well, as it will be, sir. Pelle Dragsted knows, I disagree that the Minister has misinformed the Folketing and misinformed the people who have been sitting around this negotiating table. I would also like to say that I personally am choking my toes when a ministerial hunt begins in this Parliament, whether it is a blue or a red block that opens it. I curled my toes during the conciliation which was against former Minister Mr. Uffe Elbæk a few years ago, and I have to say that the same blood rush that I read in the eyes of the members of the opposition at that time, I was able to recognise when we had had the conciliation the other day against the current Minister for Food. I simply do not think it is worthy of a parliament to do so, regardless of the size of the matter, when you smell the possibility of overthrowing a minister here. I just don't like it, and of course we can disagree on that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133625	Sir. Jens Joel. Sorry, there was a chance for another brief remark. Here you go, sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133631	I think it's a weird way to deal with this. I was actually of the opinion that the Liberal Alliance was on the side of the citizens against state power, and that is exactly what these cases are about. It is about whether you stand on the side of power and defend a minister who has misinformed, it is not about blood rush or minister hunt. It's about being elected here to secure and control the government's act. It is about our having a responsibility, and I really thought the Liberal Alliance agreed with that, to ensure that this information given by the government to the people is correct and correct. Why is it that the Liberal Alliance, now that it is suddenly a parliamentary basis, does not have the same approach to this issue as it used to be, and can we count on it to be the conditions for the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133714	This has nothing to do with whether we are parliamentary basis or not, because the premise that the Minister has lied or misinformed is not shared. I would also like to say about transparency that on my desk there is a large cardboard box, and these are questions and answers that have been given to the Folketing in connection with this matter. So this with openness and willingness to answer questions I think has been very much implemented and, as I said, the premise that the Minister should have lied or misinformed, we simply do not share.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133750	Then it's mr. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133752	Thank you. We hear the rapporteur talking a lot about what is worthy of a parliament, but at the same time the rapporteur also says that the criticism that has been raised is such a detail, that is to say we are interested in methods of calculation, but we are of course interested in it, because exactly the information that was given, that is, that the agricultural package went in plus every year, including from now on, has been created on the basis of that so-called small calculation error, which no researcher supports. My question to the rapporteur is this: could a calculation have been made where there was a green plus in each of the years, if it had not been made there the arithmetic model that the researchers have criticised?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133835	I simply do not know that much about the calculation model, but for me it has never been unclear that this would mean a transitional period and then a plus from 2021. It's been perfectly clear to me all the way through this process.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133854	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133856	Does the rapporteur state that it has been clear to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur that there was no green plus in the first few years?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133905	I say that the figures that are on the table today are figures that we have known all the way through, and I say that it has not at any time been hidden or attempted to remove what were the grounds for linking the figures together in the way they have been put together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133923	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225133927	It can be a long debate if the question is not answered. I understand that the rapporteur mentioned earlier that calculations have been challenged. Yes, that is quite correct, because the table submitted by the Minister, which is misleading and which is this manipulated bottom line, shows very clearly that there will be 4 years from this year when there will be 2,000 tonnes more nitrogen in our aquatic environment, and after the four years there will be 2 years when there will be 1,000 tonnes less. So when we get to 2020-21, there might be • These are the numbers that we've been told. I think there are so many things that mean that this matter should go back to committee. There are, among other things: in the draft law, an environmental impact assessment, and it does not concern phosphorus, nor does it concern straw shortens it is a huge mistake. So what do we get here today? We are getting a new document from the GEUS that has assessed things and I would like to know if the rapporteur is aware of this GEUS document, the report that came yesterday.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134038	I have not read yesterday's GEUS report, but I have noticed that some people are now trying to raise issues about CO2 and such extensive reform as the one that lies here will always be able to be challenged in a whole range of ways. We are going into this with open eyes, and that is why it is also the parties behind this that agree that we are encountering problems that we have not been able to foresee, we will, of course, go in and deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134108	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134110	After all, this bill is about empowering a minister, for whom there is no parliamentary support, to establish some nitrogen standards based on some descriptions. In those descriptions there are the environmental consequences, and those consequences are not adequately highlighted in the legislative proposal that we are going to be dealing with third-partyly today. That is why it is indecent to say that this should be dealt with urgently today after we have received a consultation note a few days ago. This is undemocratic and I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not agree with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134143	Well, it's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen's opinion that it is undemocratic. We've been working on this for a really, really long time. In fact, it is based in the time of the previous government when the Nature and Agriculture Commission was set up. Now we've come to this moment when decisions are made. And, as I have said before, if we are to wait for all researchers to agree that all uncertainties have been removed, we will never have any reforms made.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134206	The next with a short question is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134211	The rapporteur said earlier in his speech from the platform that we are living in a democracy, and I agree with that. I would actually like to ask the rapporteur whether one of the basic priorities of a democracy is not also that the majority is in charge. And when the majority of the Folketing declares mistrust of a minister, would not the right reaction be that the minister either leaves or that the government issues elections? Otherwise, the premise is that we are living in a democracy, not really present.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134245	In Denmark we have what is called negative parliamentarianism. That means it's the Prime Minister's privilege. The government must have a majority behind it, and as soon as a government does not have a majority behind it, the Prime Minister must issue an election. But it is negative parliamentarianism that we have in Denmark. And what the Prime Minister chooses to do, the Prime Minister must assess. It is possible that others would have made a different choice, but the Prime Minister has this privilege, as our democracy has screwed up. I fully agree that it is possible to assess whether this is right or wrong, but that is how our system is screwed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134325	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134327	Thank you so much for that history lesson. I am well aware of what negative parliamentarianism is. My point is that this is precisely a majority against a minister; a majority in the Folketing who has expressed distrust of a minister. And I think that the same rapporteur as I think it was yesterday or the day before yesterday will be happy to correct me, even here saying that there are different degrees of distrust of a government or a minister. There may be follow-up motions for resolutions. There we can start discussing an Iraq Commission and so on. etc. in connection with the presentation of the Iraq Commission documents. The Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, Mette Bock, has clearly said here that otherwise there may be distrust. And I would just like to ask whether, in that case, it will not apply if there is a majority in favour of Mette Bock, that is to say it must also be up to the Prime Minister himself to assess.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134421	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134423	In other words, I can only say that we have a Prime Minister who, in my view, has taken on board management by supporting a minister in whom the Prime Minister has confidence. We do not know what is going to happen in the coming days. It may be that this ends up in the Chamber and if a majority in the Danish Parliament chooses to press a button, which means that a majority has mistrust of the current Minister for Food, then I cannot know what the consequences of the Prime Minister will be. I just don't know. We'll have to wait and see. I have a hope, and that is that the alternative, which has actually been set up to create a new political culture, is trying to ensure that there is no majority in favour of distrust. This is a unique historic opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134505	Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134507	The rapporteur has said on several occasions that this is a nerdy discussion for academics. I think this is a really strange consideration, since the consequences of this legislation will affect ordinary people who will pay a lot more to get clean drinking water. They are ordinary people who live in the countryside along these creeks and streams, and users of our fjords and nature. We have seen before what the consequences can be of pouring too much manure into the fields. It can thus lead to very large water-environment problems in our nature. And I would like to hear from the rapporteur: does the rapporteur think it is reasonable that ordinary people should pay a large extra bill to get clean water? That's gonna be the consequence of this package.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134554	This is how academics should follow on from all reforms that are being introduced. That is the task of the scientists, and they are perfectly entitled to do so. I would almost say that they have a duty to do so. Now we hear again that we are going to pour nitrogen into Danish waters. There I just have to say that some of what is good in this reform is that we are actually going out and measuring it and where there are problems, we are putting in. In some places you will be able to fertilize more, in other places you will actually have to fertilize less.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134634	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134636	Well, we know that there will be a much higher water bill for many consumers around, so that they can have clean drinking water. Does the rapporteur think that is fair? Is it really reasonable that ordinary people should pay more to get clean drinking water?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134651	After all, this discussion about the price and the bill of billions to be paid to Danish consumers came because the good councilman in Aarhus said that he simply did not believe that some of these instruments that are now being rolled out will work. And if that is the premise, that is to say that you do not believe that the instruments will work, then it is difficult to take the discussion, because then I just have to say that we will not get the discussion started at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134716	Thank you. Then it's mr. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134717	I will allow myself to continue in the path that Mr. Simon Kollerup began and Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr subsequently followed, namely the question of what will happen in the event of application of Paragraph 15 (3) of the Constitution. 1 and declare mistrust of a minister. Because it appears almost as if the rapporteur thinks that we do not know what is happening in this context. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm the rapporteur and one of the Vice-Presidents of the Bureau that it is actually the case that then you have to act accordingly and that everything else will be unconstitutional: nothing and nothing beside the Parliamentary Assembly as Hørup put it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134803	I am fully aware of this, but we do have a Prime Minister who has at least indicated that there is another way out, namely that elections are being held. So there are many options and we do not yet know what is happening. We'll probably know that in a week or two. But there are several ways out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134824	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134826	Thank you, then light came. There is certainly no other way out than the two mentioned. I fully agree with the rapporteur that it is easy to choose to make it a matter of cabinet, and so it can have the consequence that the rapporteur rightly mentions. But we can also agree that there is no possibility that a prime minister may choose to keep a minister on his post if a motion of censure has been adopted, according to Paragraph 15 (3) of the Constitution. 1.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134856	I simply cannot answer what the Prime Minister is going to do. I can't answer what's going to happen. In fact, I do not believe that it is only a belief that I know as little as all of you that we will come to a situation in which we have to vote in the Chamber on a motion of censure against the Minister for the Environment and Food. However, I do not know as much about what the rapporteur does or what others do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134917	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225134919	Thank you. Yesterday I also had the pleasure and pleasure of debating this with the rapporteur in various media. I understand that the rapporteur has not learned what the alternative sees as a new political culture. But I can tell you that, among other things. is transparency, that, of course, power presents figures that can be trusted by the legislature, which is the parliament. Now I have heard the rapporteur stand and talk about what is worthy of a parliament. So what is worthy of a parliament for me is also a proper legislative process. And since there are seven out of seven researchers who say that this is not the right way to do it, and there is a majority in the Danish Parliament who do not have confidence in the way in which these figures are presented, does the rapporteur not think that it might have been possible to say: the emergency brake down, we have to give it a little time here, we have to work things out properly and present it again and take a proper debate again on this very comprehensive reform as it is?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225135014	Now it is not, in fact, a legislative process that scientists are criticising. They're talking about how to do these intercepts and how to do the numbers. This is not the legislative process. In other words, I note that there is a majority in the Folketing which has so far indicated that they do not think it has been appropriate and that they feel misinformed by the Minister. It is not my experience of it, and it is as legitimate as it is that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist has a different view of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225135043	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225135045	But part of a proper legislative process is surely that you have data that you can rely on, that you have figures that are transparent so that you can make proper legislation. That is why I do not understand why the rapporteur cannot see that when there is so much doubt about this, we could have just stepped on the brake and said: we are counting it straight through and we have some transparent, proper figures that can be read by everyone. Then you could take the third reading that was needed and say: fine, we are still standing by the policy we want. There may be political disagreements, but at least doing so on a transparent basis is part of a proper legislative process.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225135120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225135121	If what has been questioned here was something that would turn out to have enormous consequences in the years to come, then I wouldn't rule out any legislation or whatever reform we're talking about having to sit down again and look at it. But all the researchers in the panel agreed that no matter how we turn it and how we do it, there will be uncertainty here. But everyone also agreed that it leads to a plus in environmental accounting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225135158	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225135200	Thank you. I know a hillbilly who lives on the edge between the Jutland heath and the eastern part of the country. I've been wearing his shoes for 63 years. He can understand these things, because you don't have to be an academic to understand that in my simple opinion. Can Mrs Mette Bock confirm or deny that the same researchers who have supplied the figures to the Ministry which are used to show that the agricultural package has ended up in a green plus for the environment say that the way the Minister has used their figures is creative accounting, erroneous and misinformation? Creative accounting, misinformation and misinformation! If that is true, has the Folketing not been misled as well? I guess you don't have to be an academic to understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225135258	I'm sure you don't. I'm listening to what the scientists say. I also know that there are scientists who say different things. I know that no matter how you did this, fortunately we would have researchers who would try out what would criticise and who would challenge the way it was done. We have discussed in the past that the approach to things as a researcher depends, of course, on whether you are a biologist or whether you are an agrarian condom or whether you are something else or a third. That is what research is all about: looking into things from the special angle. What we then have to do as politicians is listen to what is being said, we have to lift ourselves up in the helicopter, and then at some point we have to tell ourselves that we now have the courage to make this decision, and if it turns out that something is going wrong, of course we will intervene. We all agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225135356	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225135357	I am pleased that Mrs Mette Bock did not deny that the Folketing has been misled. It's gonna be a piece of the road. These are the same researchers that the Minister himself has chosen to make the report, and when they say that the Ministry has used their figures in a way that can be called creative accounting, erroneous and misinformation, then that is where we have to rise up in the helicopter and say, "Whoa, those are the ones who have found the figures'. They say these numbers are being abused. Should we not intervene? Is that not the proper way in which we should work? I can't figure out how to make these numbers, but I can figure out what they say about their own numbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225135439	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225135440	Now I think the concept of orderlyness has been used a lot of times about a lot of things in recent days, so I think I'm gonna stay away from that word. But we do experience that situation time and time again. I mean, we're gonna make it, for example. Sometimes it does all parties, including the Liberal Alliance, lean on what the economic wise men say, what various Commission reports say etc., we also find that some of those who have been involved in writing things say: Well that's exactly how you can't use it, because it has to be seen in this context. Or: The prerequisites for us to do this were that and that. That is the way it will be, and it belongs in a society such as ours, where, fortunately, we can discuss things openly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225135523	Thank you. The last brief remark in this round is from Mrs Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225135527	Thank you. I take the floor because the rapporteur has now spoken about the alternative in his mouth sometimes. It seems to me that this debate on new political culture must be based on transparency. That is why it is very important for the alternative that the correct information is provided. What I think the rapporteur constantly does is that the rapporteur keeps saying that it is not so important, because overall it will be a good package and so on. But does the rapporteur not agree that it is important that proper information is provided to the Folketing? It must be information that is transparent, which everyone can understand not only the parties who have been sitting at the negotiating table, because I understand that the rapporteur says that the rapporteur is well informed about what is in the package, but also for the rest of the parties who are not sitting with, and not least for the rest of the people who have not been sitting at the negotiating table. Is it not important, then, that proper information is provided so that a decision can be taken on the right basis in this Parliament and that the people can keep track of what is going on in here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225135629	Of course, transparency is important. I have followed the emergence of the alternative, this new party, with very great interest. I find it exciting that we have a Parliament which has new parties that act on a new time basis. This is the case, whether it is the Enhedslisten or the Liberal Alliance or the Alternative. I have therefore also read the values on which the alternative is based its work. It is true that there is transparency in one of them. I am in favour of that, too. Courage and generosity are two other values that are also important. I am very much in favour of them too. I just want to say that I do not believe that the Minister has misinformed or lied or distorted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225135713	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225135714	Thank you for being able to reproduce the values of the Alternative. I was a little impressed by that. It is a fact that there are seven researchers who have been sitting and saying that this is not a correct way to do it. Then I understand that the Liberal Alliance does not attach the same value as we do. I just still want to ask something: is it not a problem that we have seven researchers, the seven main scientists who sit and say that we can't do it this way, and then we do it anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225135746	The researchers who have criticised it say that in the academic world one should do it in a different way. I would like to refer to the time when the previous government made a legislative package to ensure that more people were going to work. This package was supposed to trigger 150,000 more jobs. When you go in and look at what figures were behind it, you see that some structural improvements had been included in these figures, and the previous government's argument was that out there is really going to happen. Some of it comes from these initiatives, other things come from something else. I think that is actually a very good parallel, which shows the difference between what it is like in a university and in a parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225135831	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225135852	Thank you. Now I have been a member of the Folketing for more than six months and I have to say that I am a little shocked by the course we have been modeling here for the last few weeks. I have been somewhat shocked by the way scientific data are used as a basis for making political decisions. I come from the scientific world myself I am an engineer and if we democratically do not base independent research and knowledge on the decisions we make, what should we take as a basis? Is there anything left but those who cry the loudest that we can use as a basis? That is why I think this matter is quite serious. I have been shaken in my foundation by the fact that, in other words, scientific data are taken and presented in a way that a team of researchers behind the results appear and are very critical of. It is true that what is going on in this Chamber is not science, but the decisions we are making here should be based on knowledge and not on faith. We have here a package that we have been discussing across and across the recent past. We have focused a lot on a few things, especially on nitrogen, and the package is presented as if it were going in plus for nature and the environment. I can just say that we haven't finished hearing about what this package is doing. What about the dry nature? We've only talked about the wet nature. How is the dry nature affected, how is biodiversity affected by higher consumption of fertilisers? If, as a result of this package, we succeed in getting a bigger pig production, we will probably also need more copper and zinc for the piglets if they are to continue to be taken from the mother sow after 3 weeks. What is the environmental impact of this? What about the higher consumption of spray poison, which has also been mentioned earlier? I mean, when we give more manure, the straws get taller unless we use straw shortens. It also has an environmental impact. What about the entire phosphorous angle that Stig Marcage and Kaj Sand highlighted? It is not described at all. When we fertilize more, when we fertilize more, we use more nitrogen, but we also use more phosphorus, which we emit in nature. We know that phosphorus gives this spring boom, which is also a strain on inland waters. Then comes the whole climate angle, which is also relevant, because we have a Paris agreement. We have reached an agreement here in December to keep temperature increases worldwide below 11⁄2 degrees, and we know that in the course of 2016 we will have some demands from the European Union that we start to implement reductions in agriculture. Here comes the government with an agricultural package that does not have that angle at all. If it's up to believers, it goes to zero, but it can also go to minus 1⁄2 million. t CO2 Here we are talking about a package that is counted as something that is good for the environment, but you are seriously only dived down into the nitrogen angle of it. The way data is presented is even in conflict with the way scientists think you can use their data. Therefore, the alternative cannot, of course, support L 68. If a supplementary package is to be negotiated, the alternative is ready with a lot of suggestions on how we can create compensatory measures. We are, of course, happy to enter into a debate on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225140316	We have one brief comment to make. It's from sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225140321	I think it was a good list of what has so far been studied. I fully agree with this that phosphorus is completely overlooked in the treatment that the bill has been given here, and the same with pesticides, especially straw shorteners, this with increased amounts of zinc and copper by a permit to have more pigs. The list is getting longer and longer, and then there is the whole climate issue. I'm new to the Folketing, too. I am sometimes surprised that the treatment of things has to go very quickly in order to be finished, so you can have those 4 months of summer holidays that are then well deserved, of course, but I would like to ask the rapporteur how long we really should have if we had to get to the bottom of this before we took a third reading in the Parliament, whether Mr. Christian Poll has such an assessment of how many months we should have to do this job properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225140420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225140422	I don't know what exactly lies in the data out there in advance and what data needs to be generated in order to get a more accurate picture of it here, but I'll assume it will take several months. After all, some agreements have to be made with some researchers who have to supply the data. So I guess so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225140439	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225140441	I think that the other day we had a good process with the scientists we had inside who gave their input. It was liberating to hear that they said their opinion. I think there's a missing after-processing of what they brought. I could also imagine that other scientists could be taken in. Today we have received an email saying that GEUS has produced a report that assesses how this increased fertiliser standard affects our groundwater for the next 2 years. I would like it to be looked at for years. I'd like to know if Mr. Knox is here. Christian Poll has a comment on what we have received from GEUS, which concerns our groundwater protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225140517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225140519	I regret not having had the GEUS report dived yet, but I would say that it is true that we need to know more, among other things. In the whole area of how this package will affect jobs in agriculture, too. I have read an article which tells us that there are currently high fertiliser prices, that there are low prices for cereals and milk, so the question is whether it will even give the desired effect in the industry to allow more fertilization.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225140551	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move forward in the rapporteur's line and the next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225140602	I'm gonna start by going a little back in time. Because when the Social Democratic Party, the SF and the Radical Left last had the power of government, we chose to set up the Nature and Agriculture Commission, and we did so because we had witnessed how nature and agriculture under the previous government had been in an eternal battle with each other, how there was ditch digging and there was simply no dialogue between the two parties, and then we thought that these interests must be brought together in a better way. So we set up the Nature and Agriculture Commission, and there was broad support, and we worked with all the stakeholders in agriculture, we worked with the Danish Parliament's parties, and we created a process that everyone was really happy about. Then the Nature and Agriculture Commission came out with a large number of proposals, and one of the most important proposals was the proposal for targeted regulation. A targeted regulation was what should make it smarter to fertilize places that could tolerate more manure and fertilize a little less places that could tolerate less. So that's quite logical. There were also a large number of other proposals to make sure that there were benefits to nature so that there could be a balance in the accounts, so that there was something both for agriculture and for nature. Then what happened? Well, then it happened that one after the other suddenly started jumping into the goal. First, there was an association called Sustainable Agriculture, which is an extreme association which does not care about professionalism and facts and which lobbies with various methods and which cannot be used in a serious political dialogue when one wants to achieve one another, because they have only one objective, and it is for themselves to win and eliminate environmental protection. Then it happened that, at political level too, the goal began to fall, and at one point agriculture & Food also began to leave that agreement. In other words, when we got a change of government, we chose to say that we wanted to have the targeted regulation, that we wanted to have the part of the work of the Nature and Agriculture Commission which was good for agriculture, and all the other things were scrapped. Perhaps you could have made an agreement with the Danish Parliament's parties just about a targeted regulation. We do not have the power of government at the moment, which is why it could have been said that a targeted regulation is something that we all agree on and that a broad agreement could have been reached. There is no disagreement about that. What is at issue is whether, when the targeted regulation is clear and it is no earlier than 2-3 years from now, and that is if everything goes well then can remove environmental protection until then. That is what we are discussing, and that is what we disagree on. Of course, there are many of us who say: No, we cannot eliminate environmental protection for three years; it is irresponsible when we have spent billions of dollars correcting our aquatic environment and government after government has fought for life to come again in our fjords, for people to start seeing the eel grass and for the water to be clear when people bathe and there is no oxygen loss. No, we cannot do that when we have some groundwater that we drink, no, we cannot eliminate environmental protection for 3-4 years. Of course, this must be done at once. Why does it have to? Among other things: For that reason, if you hand out all the gifts now, how much will there be to pay a price at the other end? You'd think that this government and this minister I don't know at the moment if I should call Minister if anyone should be the ones who knew how unwise it is to hand out the gifts first. The last time the minister sat in the chair as a minister, they chose to distribute all the gifts. The set-aside system was removed and some 100,000 hectares of nature were allowed to be ploughed up, and then some environmental protection should be provided later. So, what was it that came? What came at last, long after the Minister had got a gigantic nose, was something called Green Growth. And do you know what was in Green Growth? There were the rim zones and the catch crops. They were the ones who came into a panic solution, hovsa, bums, down over the heads of the farmers because it didn't hold out just to hand out gifts anyway. And if you think something else is happening at the moment, you're also a little naive, and then you've forgotten the story. If you think there's not gonna be a proper hovsa in a minute, where there's gonna be something completely new that's gonna hurt someone, then you're a little naive. So anyone who has upset the balance, those who have destroyed the compromise between nature and agricultural interests, is not a red block, but they are the ones who are in power right now. They're the ones who haven't done anything for the balance. If the balance had been maintained, we wouldn't have been in this situation. It would have been better for the environment, it would have been better for agriculture, and I think it would have been better for the government too. Now it is happening that an agricultural package is being made which primarily helps those farmers who make money in advance, and then you choose that taxpayers out there have to pay 655 million. kr. in 2020; they have to pay farmers to pollute less. We have to pay farmers to pollute less. That would be like saying to someone in the textile industry: you are paid for not pouring purple color into Mariager Fjord. Why should we do so, given that we have a good principle which states that the polluter pays and that whoever makes money from pollution actually pays to clean up and does not pass that bill on to society? And I am surprised that the Liberal Alliance thinks we should have a state-owned industry in Denmark where the others have to pay for the pollution of the industry. That really puzzles me. Another thing that puzzles me is that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. René Christensen, can stand on television and guarantee that there will not be an extra bill for drinking water for the citizens out there and that there is no chance that they will pay more for their drinking water until we see the consultation note, which, I think, is coming, 21⁄2 days before we have to stand here and vote at the third reading, which also shows how unheard of this process has been. Because the consultation note says that it turns out that there is a need for local action to ensure drinking water, the bill will have to be paid by water consumers. Then today we get the GEUS note, which says that up to 10%. In the case of nitrate-sensitive areas, there may be additional nitrogen discharges, and that means, I would say to Mr McMahon. René Christensen that there is now a bill for it. There will be a large number of places where municipalities have to ask their citizens for more money, including drinking water. So there is an extra bill for the citizens, quite contrary to what the Danish People's Party has said. Then there's a clause in this package, there's a seven or eight times. I do not know whether it is the life insurance of civil servants, but at least here it says that it is a prerequisite for phasing out the reduction of crop nitrogen standards that it is assessed on a professional and legal basis that the environment, nature and surface water and groundwater are not affected. So it is really exciting that today there is a report from GEUS that says that groundwater is deteriorating. I do not see how the power given in the law can be implemented today, and I will pursue it very closely and the Radical Left will do so whether it is simply legal to allow the authorisation to enter into force now. Then we come to EU law, and here we can see that the only legal assessment that has been made of this huge legislative package is one and a half pages. It says here that the European Court of Justice may refuse to extend the Danish derogation to apply more manure, that it may choose not to approve a new rural development programme, that is quite a lot of money and that it may choose to take legal action against Denmark. But that does not make the Minister shake his hand that there are so many uncertainties. When we look at communication with the Commission, it is quite clear that it is a huge uncertainty, a huge, huge uncertainty. It is like moving out on a highway in the wrong direction blindfolded and thinking that you are not hitting anything. Here you go, I think you're gonna hit something in a minute. With regard to environmental accounts, which have been discussed a great deal today, apart from the fact that it is made up, and that there is no green plus neither the first four years nor seen together over the whole period, we must also say that the small hint has been made that the catch crops have been taken out of it. How can you do that? If something had been decided in the draft budget to produce an economic effect in 2016, and you closed it again, then it could not be said that it would never have entered into force, and then that money would be lacking in the budget law, and in the same way it is with the post-crops. The catch crops are missing from this account. I can see that the catch crops are the first to be mentioned by the government in its communication with the Commission, and then you do not think it is relevant here, and the minister sweeps it off as if it doesn't matter. We are sitting here with a minister without a majority. We have not seen before in Danish history a minister, a junior minister, sit and wait to be voted out of the Folketing. Where is respect for the history that has been Denmark? Why are we going all the way out here where we have to vote a minister? It's so disgusting. I think we should remember what is at stake today: it is 30 years of work for the aquatic environment; it is groundwater that people drink; it is our living fjord; it is our nature that we have not even touched on, but where there is also a habitats directive that we have not heard much from lawyers. I would say that I do not believe that the future of Danish agriculture lies in having to pollute a little more. I do not think that this is what creates healthy agriculture that can produce good green food. But I think that is to have some vision of how to convert the technology in agriculture and how to find the markets where we can actually sell things, and have some vision of what direction we are going to take, instead of thinking that a little more fertilizer is the way forward. I am sorry to say this, but this package is of no benefit to anyone, and we can also see that not even the Ministry of Finance has been able to find that this should provide jobs out there. So what exactly are we doing today? The Radical Left cannot, of course, vote in favour of this bill in any way whatsoever, and I have to say that in my nine years in the Folketing I have had nothing like it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225141556	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225141618	We are here today in the Folketing to deal with a law that should have been postponed as a minimum in all areas; a law that does not meet the basic requirements of parliamentary work, what we are doing in here, what is illustrated up here: wisdom, vigilance, justice and truth; a law that, as part of the agricultural package, is based on incorrect figures and on a method that not a single researcher for our hearing on Tuesday could or would back up; a package that has been repeatedly referred to by the Minister as green and as a plus for the environment, when it is an undeniable fact that the package is being emitted 6,000 tonnes of extra nitrogen. It is a package that reduces the climate, while the Minister calls it climate-neutral; a package that, according to the Minister's own assessment, does not have an effect on employment, in other words no jobs; a package where there is not the necessary legal assessment; a law that is in all likelihood contrary to our international obligations and thus illegal and then comes back and hits us as a boomerang, not only Denmark, but also those farmers for whom it will mean financial costs. It is a law that is rushed through so that the Committee on the Environment and Food did not have the time necessary for legal proceedings, so critical that a unanimous committee, all the parties of the Folketing, had to express criticism of the haste that forced us to draw up a supplementary report, so that we had to state what we thought of a package before we had the necessary data base before we had the consultation answers we were supposed to have. It is a law put forward by a minister in whom the majority of the Folketing does not trust because of precisely the manipulated figures and environmental calculations that had been presented. This law should not be voted on today as a minimum. Whatever one thinks of it politically, so much is in the direction of at least postponing it. There has been no legal assessment, as several of my colleagues have said; there has been haste; there have been objections from organizations; there have been researchers, all researchers for a hearing saying that this law is based on some figures that they will not vouch for. When they are asked directly: which one of you will vouch for this method, then not a single scientist would take the method in defense. Whatever we think of agricultural policy, natural policy, environmental policy, it is a scandal to legalize a bill which is perhaps illegal, which certainly lacks a legal assessment, where there has been an unusual haste, where there has been evidence of pressure on researchers to rush it through, where there is evidence from the Ministry to get them to draw conclusions in advance where, according to e-mails, they have said: we simply cannot vouch for that. This law is a democratic and parliamentary scandal and, of course, the SF cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225142002	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225142019	Thank you. We intend to vote in favour of the agricultural package. We do so because we believe that the basic thing is an improvement in Danish agriculture which is needed. But I would first like to say a few words about the process. After all, it has been incredibly unsightly that we all agree on that and we are in a bad situation now. On the Conservative side, we take the view that civil politicians must also present the consequences of political decisions openly and honestly, because civil policy is so good that we can easily convince the people that it is right without having to hide the consequences of it. In this case, it just didn't happen. No true picture of the consequences of the agricultural package has been presented. It can then be based on a mistake. It is fair enough that mistakes are made. But when you are then made aware of errors, it is important that you correct them, it is important that you correct them, and it is important that you willingly then present a true picture of the consequences that have not been properly established in the first place. In this case it has required, I don't know how many front pages in national newspapers, I don't know how many items in Deadline. Seven experts have been called in for a hearing at Christiansborg, and they all reject completely unequivocally and unreservedly the method used by the government to describe the consequences of the agricultural package. The impression has been given that nitrogen emissions will fall in the coming years, but the truth is that they will increase in the early years. Is it important? It is of course important in this way that it has been possible to tell a story that is not true that the package did not present a challenge to the aquatic environment from the outset. The figures are not great, it is not violent, and in itself this error is not, of course, enough for us to get there, for a minister to be distrusted. But when the Minister gets 117 written questions about this package and there's so much debate in the public and we have these hearings etc. and we still cannot go any further than the Minister will recognise that perhaps there should have been a small star at the bottom of a table and when the figures that would have been right are not put forward, then I think we have a serious problem. That's why we've come to where we are now. It is certainly not with our good will at all, but I do not see the possibility of turning aside from the point of view of the fact that we must provide fair, honest and willing information on the consequences of political decisions. It is not because we are intolerant of errors, not at all, but we are intolerant of simply refusing to rectify them and refusing to present what we ourselves know is the true picture of this agricultural package. It was the process. Then there is the very contents of the package. There is something more positive, since we are actually voting in favour. We would also have voted in favour if we had had the picture we now have of the consequences of the agricultural package. We would probably also have liked to have had a slightly more green package, but we would also still have voted for it, with the consequences that we now know of, of the agricultural package. I do not agree that this will be the environmental disaster that some are trying to proclaim it to. There will be a few years in which nitrogen emissions are increasing, but we need to get the proportions in place and say that, after all, it is less than 2% if you take the next three years and compare with how much nitrogen was emitted in advance, and then take the increase that is now in place after the figures have been calculated in the right way. I fully agree that there may be some uncertainties, and I fully agree that there may be differences of opinion on the figures, but if you do a methodologically correct representation of the government's own figures, we get it to those just under 2%, at least when I count it together. I asked a researcher about that the other day during our expert hearing, and I was told that it was not a major problem for the aquatic environment. Of course we would like to go further down, but in 5 years we will have lower nitrogen emissions than we have today, and then our aquatic environment can continue to improve. Conservatives also went to elections on this agricultural package, and it is important to remember that it was a joint electoral promise by the bourgeois parties, and we want to honour that. We also feel that we do not want farmers to be taken hostage in this unsightly political process that has been going on in here at Christiansborg. There are many families, thousands of families, around Denmark, who are looking forward to the implementation of the agricultural package. They have had the expectation since Christmas that this would happen. They have planned after what they have planned their work this season after this is done, and we don't think it's fair to cancel it because of this process. Democratically speaking, it would be perfectly justified for this package to be stopped because the process has been as it has been, but some people suffer if you do so, and therefore we choose not to do so. We do not think that we can afford to do that in relation to agriculture. Conservatives then hope that we can agree with some parties to make an additional agreement so that we can have some more nitrogen reducing initiatives, which could be wetlands, forests, set-aside, after-crops and some other things. We are, in fact, open to little of each, and we have made a large number of proposals. We hope that some parties, together with us, will help to decide on this and thereby improve the environmental accounts that now look a little worse than they have previously been informed to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225142708	We have a few brief comments to make. The first brief remark is from Mr. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225142712	Thank you. I think it is clear from the rapporteur's speech that there is no longer any confidence in the Minister for the Environment and Food of the Conservative People's Party. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that the Conservative Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of the motion of censure tabled against the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225142734	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225142736	It is true that it is our intention to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225142742	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225142745	Thank you. That's all I needed to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225142748	The next one is sir. Christian Poll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225142751	Thank you. I just want to hear the rapporteur: does the Conservative People's Party believe that granting permission for more fertilization will actually save a profession that is in a great crisis and that it will help those in the profession who need help by means of these measures?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225142812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225142815	We don't think it's gonna save the industry. Agriculture is in big trouble. It is a very, very hard-pressed business with a debt of hundreds of billions of dollars, very many bankruptcies, very many families sitting around in a really difficult economic situation and really threatened. That's why we want to help them. But no, I do not want to pretend that it solves the problems of agriculture. But we always want to improve the framework conditions for agriculture, and if we can do something good for them, then we will. I know there are some from different parties who say that we should do a whole lot of other things and that it would be much better for agriculture. We usually have the approach to business policy, and this also applies to agricultural policy, that when people come and tell us that they think it will help them and that it will be beneficial to them, you have to be a little better informed to say: No, it won't be, it will be bad for you. So as far as that is concerned, we are quite sure that it will help agriculture, but of course it does not save everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225142917	Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225142918	I'm gonna drop out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225142920	Then we move on, and the next one is Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225142925	Thank you very much, and thank you for your speech. The situation we find ourselves in is, in fact, an unfortunate situation, because it always undermines confidence in the rule of the people and in the parliament at all when we are all misled, both Parliament and the people. But when that has happened, and there have even been numerous opportunities to get things right, to get the truth out, to get the right picture and the right-wing basis for a legislative package, and when it is not corrected and the chance is lost, then it must have consequences. There I would like to sign that the Conservative People's Party is apparently the only party in the blue bloc that believes that it is not okay to mislead the Folketing. I think that creates hope, after all. I find it a little strange that we are choosing to vote on this bill today. We have always insisted that the environment should go to zero as a result of the agricultural package, and I would like to ask whether what we want to negotiate in this environmental package is something that comes very close to compensating for the negative consequences, so that the environment will go to zero after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225143037	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225143040	I have to be quite honest with you and say that we are not in a situation where we can make ultimate demands in relation to negotiations on an additional agreement. I know there are many who say: well, why does the Conservative People's Party not vote against the agricultural package and require additional initiatives before agreeing to the agricultural package itself? And that would certainly put us in a better negotiating position, there is no doubt about that. But it would have the cost that agriculture would suffer, that it would suffer all these families sitting around and in need of this handshake, who have had a perfectly legitimate expectation of it and will feel justified failed by the political system if this discussion, this argument, were to go beyond them and they were deprived of the things that have been promised from in here. That is why we do not believe that we can afford to stop the agricultural package. We simply do not think that we can be familiar with agriculture. So I just have to say that we are, of course, going for as much nitrogen reduction as possible, but I cannot quantify it because it depends on what other parties will be involved in. And, of course, it must also be cost-effective. We do not want to throw money out of the window, that is clear too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225143146	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225143149	Okay, but let me ask: is the environmental package you want to get as close as it can possibly get to bringing the negative consequences of the agricultural package to zero, so that this agricultural package, which right now will lead to 8,000 extra tonnes of emissions over the next four years, will, after all, be compensated so that it does not have these serious consequences? I just want to say that this environmental disaster is not something that Enhedslisten has made up. It was thus a researcher at the research hearing who was concerned that this was the scenario we were looking for. It's just to make sure we're talking about the same thing. So will the Conservative People's Party orientate widely in the Folketing to secure a majority for an environmental package that can get as close as possible to bringing this environmental account to zero?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225143238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225143240	There is no research agreement at all. I heard only one researcher go so far as to use those big words that it was an environmental disaster, and there were others who said that, at least in relation to nitrogen accounting, which is what we have talked about most, it was hardly anything that could be measured. So I do not think it can be said that this is an environmental disaster that is now being voted through. If that were the case, we would not be voting in favour either. We want it down as close to zero as possible, but there are some limitations. Firstly, there are some things that it is not physically possible to do. Well, it'll probably be limited how much we can start in 2016. And, of course, there are also some economic restrictions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225143316	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225143318	Thank you. Now that we are discussing the agricultural package here, we have tried to ask both the Danish People's Party and the Left whether they can guarantee that it will not be more expensive for the Danes in relation to having to pay for drinking water as a consequence of this package. The Danish People's Party has given a guarantee: yes, they can guarantee it does not. The left won't give it a guarantee. Can Conservatives guarantee that it won't be more expensive to be a Dane as a result of the bourgeoisie voting through this package?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225143345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225143347	I have to say that it is a very imprecise question whether it will be more expensive to be a Dane. It depends a lot on what kind of Dane you are. If you are a farmer, I would say immediately that it will probably be cheaper to be a Dane. But in relation to the water bill: No, I can't guarantee that. I can't guarantee there won't be a bill on water.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225143406	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225143408	Thanks for the clear answer. I couldn't get that out of the Left. I could get a guarantee from the Danish People's Party that it would not be more expensive, not only for farmers, but also for consumers. That is, in fact, the opposite answer I am now receiving from Conservatives. I know that there is confusion in the blue block, but apparently there is also very much confusion in the blue block about the extent to which this will be costly for consumers in relation to paying for drinking water. I note that the Danish People's Party has given me a guarantee that it will not. Conservatives are now saying that you can't promise it won't. I guess that's what they call ambiguity in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225143445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225143446	So, that is an overinterpretation, I have to say, because it cannot be concluded that because one side will not give a guarantee and the other side will give a guarantee, then it is necessarily contradictory developments that we are talking about. I just don't think I have enough power over the implementation of this package to guarantee anything or have enough power over the uncertainties that might be associated with it. But I am not saying that it necessarily does, i.e. that it becomes more expensive for the water.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225143516	The last brief remark is from Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225143518	Thank you. In fact, I have only spoken to praise the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party and the rapporteur's party chairman for standing firm in this matter. Because you can disagree on very much politically, and the Enhedslisten disagrees with the right thing to do, for example. is adopting this package today. But it is so crucial that we in the Danish Parliament and the public receive accurate information from a government. In the Enhedslisten we have tried to find ourselves in the situation that the Conservative People's Party is facing today, that is to say to be in a clash, if I may say so, with the government we ourselves support, because misleading information had been given to the Folketing. It is not a very nice or funny situation, and it is a situation that you have not chosen and that you do not want to be in. Nevertheless, it is an extremely important task for us in the Folketing, regardless of which government sits, to ensure that the properness is there, to ensure that the Folketing and the people's rule can actually function. And that is really just my comment today, namely that I think it is admirable that the Conservative People's Party is sticking to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225143627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225143628	Thank you. I share that view. I do not see it as an opportunity to accept that a minister will not provide accurate information on the consequences of a political decision. I simply do not see how to accept it as Parliament. And there's no question of whether it's a friend of yours or whether it's one of your opponents. The principle of the rightful disclosure of information should be maintained. I almost had to google myself to the fact that Enhedslisten once overthrew Morten Bødskov as minister, and I just remind you how fast it went, how little one really remembers it today, and how fast one moved on. So it's a lot about how to handle the process.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225143722	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr as a privateist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225143735	Thank you. I did not intend to go to the platform as a privateist, but I think that this is a very serious situation we are in. We have a Minister for Agriculture who has a majority in the Danish Parliament against him, and we do not trust the Minister, and yet the Danish Parliament must treat an agricultural package for which the same minister has presented incorrect figures as a basis. I think that's grotesque. The accounts have been decorated and the agricultural package has been made greener than the facts actually are. On Tuesday Parliament held a hearing on the agricultural package. As many as seven experts participated in the hearing. None of the experts supported the Minister's interpretation of the impact of the agricultural package on the aquatic environment in the coming years. Nevertheless, the same minister now presents an agricultural package in the Folketing for the third reading on the basis of the very same wrong figures and despite distrust towards him. I cannot therefore say how serious and grotesque the situation is, not only for the aquatic environment, but also for our democratic institutions. Democracy is based on trust, openness and honesty, and all that is put under pressure today. The Blue Block votes through with reference to subsequent negotiations, series of meetings or circular pedagogy in the Prime Minister's Office. That's absurd. Here I would like to quote a former Prime Minister: "It is as if the learning of professional skills has been downgraded in favour of sitting in circles and asking: It may be good to sit in circles and discuss and have a conversation with each other. But the first prerequisite for having a meaningful conversation is that you know what you are talking about. If unqualified opinions become as lively as qualified knowledge, then it all ends in emptiness and stupidity. ▪ For once I agree with former Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen about this, for the figures do not change, although right now there is circular pedagogy over at the Prime Minister's Office. It must be professionalism on which we base our figures, and that does not change a series of meetings. I would therefore urge Parliament to vote down the agricultural package, not only for the sake of the aquatic environment, but also for the sake of democracy. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225144002	The next is the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225144012	Thank you to the rapporteurs for today's debate. Thank you for all the many questions that have been put to this bill, namely 117 questions in total. We have had a long debate on this proposal and I am very pleased that we have now reached the third reading. Mrs Ida Auken went a little back in her history today, in fact back to the years when Mrs Ida Auken spoke of settling the trench war, that is, the trench war between the environment on the one hand and agriculture on the other. This was in 2013 when the Nature and Agriculture Commission made its proposals, and among others. Mrs Ida Auken wrote as a follow-up to their proposals: we now have a range of good ideas on how to develop agriculture, create jobs and take better care of our nature. The idea of more targeted environmental action is central. We want to create better environmental action with more nature, while at the same time giving farmers more freedom. But it takes time, and it takes courage and responsibility from all sides. A new regulation can be an operational advantage for some farmers, but also a disadvantage for others. That is why there will also be a need to discuss solidarity solutions in agriculture. That is how Mrs Ida Auken wrote and I wish it were the case that Mrs Ida Auken had retained this approach to the subject and to this area now that she is a radical participant in the debate. Imagine if we could have continued the constructive dialogue with each other to find out how we are best implementing the targeted regulation, which, after all, a broad majority under the previous government in 2014 agreed was the way forward. That is what we are now taking the courage and responsibility of us to implement. It's a big challenge. It is a paradigm shift that happens in Denmark when we now move from a general way of regulating environmental action to a more targeted effort. And yes, it takes 21⁄2 years to develop the model itself, and it is clear that there will be plenty of questions and also lots of uncertainties associated with it. At no time have I concealed that fact. Then Mrs Ida Auken says that we are removing protection and that we should have kept our balance. That's exactly what we're doing. We are going to go after there is no deterioration in the aquatic environment in the first few years, and then we are going to take action with further reduction of nitrogen emissions. Because of all the reports from the rapporteurs today, I have to repeat what I have said many times now: no figures have been found. No incorrect figures have been provided. No numbers have been manipulated. I've left all the numbers open. I have been open about the uncertainties and risks associated with this very big exercise with a paradigm shift that we are doing, and I have been so both in relation to the environment and in relation to compliance with EU directives. So there is no question that some information has been misleading or manipulative. It's all explained, and it's all connected. I have taken note of the criticisms that have been made, both here in this Chamber and also from researchers, and I have noted that there is a great deal of disagreement among researchers about the environmental consequences of the change in the law. The assessments range entirely from the fact that there will not be a measurable effect, regardless of how we take baseline into account, to the risk of compromising the entire effort so far. There is one thing I have learned, and that is that forward-looking all tables we make should be self-explanatory. As I mentioned on Tuesday at the conciliation meeting, it is really a comment to Mr. René Christensen can be annoyed that I didn't just make this footnote or set a small star, where I reminded you that remember now that the starting point for the target load is 2012. This is the most recent year from which we have data, and that is why it is the year from which we start. However, I am pleased that we have arrived at a very ambitious food and agricultural package, in which the legislative proposal we are discussing today, L 68, is, of course, a very central element. There are significant gains to be made both for the industry, the environment and society by moving to a new targeted regulation. I think it is a pity that the process has been as it has, with struggles about numbers and with tricks, when the bottom line is that with the food and agriculture package, of which the law of fertilization is an important part, we will in any case receive a plus for both the environment and for the food sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225144533	There are a number of brief comments. The first brief remark is from Mr. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225144540	Thank you. I think we are in a historic situation. I guess it must be. We have just been through a long series of rapporteurs; a majority of the parties in the Folketing have expressed their distrust of the Minister for the Environment and Food; and the Minister goes on the platform as if nothing had happened and talks about forward-looking tables of stars and footnotes. I have to ask the Minister: how can the Minister choose to sit with the distrust expressed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225144616	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225144618	I will always follow the decisions taken in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225144622	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225144628	Does not the Minister have any impression that a majority of parties in the Folketing have chosen to express their distrust of the Minister? Doesn't that make an impression?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225144638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225144639	It makes a very big impression.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225144644	The next brief remark is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225144649	This process started 10 days ago with some researchers • a little unusual, at least in terms of language and scope, because their criticism was so plainly said: We cannot stand up to the way our numbers have been used; our professionalism cannot stand up to that. You expressed this criticism, which has made it all roll. We could have had a hearing and a consultation on Tuesday, when the Minister could have said: no, the package is not green. Because we agreed that what is called baseline is not an initiative in the package. But the Minister keeps sticking to it, and that is why we have expressed distrust. That is why the government's support party has expressed distrust. Can the Minister not follow us and the Conservatives over in the blue block in that we have not been able to see ourselves in this course?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225144800	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225144802	Well, I have listened to the criticism that has been made, which mainly addresses the question of where to place the baseline effect from 2013, 2014 and 2015 in relation to the overall course. I have also noted that the researchers behind the baseline report agree on where we land in 2021. I note that there has been criticism of the way things are done. That doesn't make it the wrong number. Nor does it make it appear that the conditions have not been clearly stated, that it has not been discussed, sent over to the Folketing, discussed, posted on the website, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225144836	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225144838	At any rate, I am impressed by the fact that when you are sitting with seven researchers who have been invited by both red and blue blocs, and they are asked which of those who will defend the method that has been, then there is a resounding silence. It makes an impression, because it's all about more than our work in here. After all, it is also about the independence and integrity of researchers. It is about us, as Parliament, being able to rely on what comes from the government, from the ministers. It is about a process that has been so hasty that the committee must express criticism, and much, much more. That is why a majority in the Folketing no longer trusts the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225144916	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225144918	But I simply disagree with Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen that this has all the consequences. There has been criticism of the method by which we have calculated the baseline effect for 2013, 2014 and 2015, and I have taken note of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225144932	The next brief remark is from Mrs Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225144934	Can the Minister mention a precedent in which a minister has remained in the chair after the Danish Parliament has expressed its distrust of the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225144945	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225144946	So now I am not aware that such a decision has been made in the Folketing and, as I said, I will always follow the political decisions taken in the Folketing. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225144957	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225144958	I can tell the Minister that it has happened quite many times that distrust has been expressed, but it has never actually happened that one should come down here and vote out a minister because there has been respect for the rule of the people and for some of the unwritten rules. So I would just like to ask whether the Minister will be proud to be the first, not Prime Minister, to enter the history of Denmark by having to come down here and vote out of the Folketing. Or is it something we should not be proud of, because we do not respect all the unwritten rules and are in favour of the respect we have for each other in here, where we do not have to humiliate each other in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145030	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145031	Today I am proud that we are dealing with the third legislative proposal L 68, which is going to mean a great deal and which is absolutely crucial for us now to launch a paradigm shift in the way we regulate the environment in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145044	The next brief remark is from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145048	I do not have any more questions on this matter, but I have one comment to make. We have had a very, very long process and a very, very long process of this agricultural package. For me, it has been a very, very long struggle to get the truth out and get some honesty about what this agricultural package will mean for our nature, for our environment and for our drinking water. And I think it is so incredibly sad that right now we are in a situation in which the Danish Parliament has still not received accurate information and a majority can no longer possibly have confidence in the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145133	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145134	Legal information has been provided all the way through. The figures have been left open and I have explained how we have done the figures. All prerequisites have been known, so the truth has been there all the way through this process.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145150	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145152	I find it incomprehensible that the Minister today feels that the Minister has the legitimacy to stand on the floor of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145202	I have no comment to make on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145204	The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145208	Thank you. I would just like to ask the Minister whether he understands that my confidence has fallen dramatically over the last two weeks, especially on Tuesday, when it became so clear where seven scientists sat and said that what has been done here with their figures cannot be done and where the Minister then did not give himself or was approachable at all, but kept saying just the same things. Can the Minister understand that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145243	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145245	No, frankly, I cannot understand that, because, as I have said, we have had a detailed account of how and how we have used the figures. There is a criticism of that inventory method in relation to the baseline effect in 2013, 2014 and 2015. I have noted that, but I also heard at the hearing that in this table I should have made a small footnote, reminding you that the starting point was 2012. It is clear that I regret that I did not get that footnote in the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145313	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145315	But that wasn't all. A number of other things were mentioned which were not in the package at all or which were very thinly described in the package and which are part of an environmental impact. I did not hear the Minister reply to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145329	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145331	It is clear that there are a great many things to be assessed here and, as I have emphasised many times, it is also associated with uncertainty and risks when we make such a big change as we are doing here. However, I also noted during the hearing on Tuesday that there was relative agreement among researchers that the food and agriculture package provides a green plus in 2021, that the targeted efforts and regulation are the way forward, that the accrual of baseline is associated with uncertainty, and that the transition from the current general regulation to the targeted regulation will hardly be measured in the aquatic environment due to wind and weather.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145410	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145413	First, a question about the package. I have tried throughout the day to find out whether this is now going to be more expensive for Danish consumers who are going to pay more for their drinking water. The Danish People's Party has assured me that it will not. The Minister's own rapporteur will not answer the question, and the Conservatives have said that they cannot guarantee that it will not be more expensive. Can the Minister guarantee the same as the Danish People's Party and thus also confirm the Danish People's Party's guarantee that it will not cost the Danes another penny as a consequence of this package?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145448	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145450	Well, the really good thing about this package is that it's going to be 1 billion. kr. in terms of structural GDP, as assessed by the Ministry of Finance. In relation to groundwater, it is clear from the agreement that we need to have a closer look at whether there may be places where there are risks associated with groundwater. And then, of course, we have set aside funds for a special effort there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145509	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145511	So the Danish People's Party's guarantee was not worth anything. Then I have another question in relation to the Conservatives. Rasmus Jarlov says that the figures presented were not accurate. Now the Minister is saying that the truth came out completely and that everything was right. Both arguments cannot be right. Is the Minister saying that the Conservatives and Rasmus Jarlov have been completely wrong in this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145531	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145533	What I have said is that I have left the figures open from the beginning; I have explained how the figures have been used and what assumptions I have included. I have noted the criticism about the baseline effect from 2013, 2014 and 2015, and it is, in fact, the focus of this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145554	The next brief remark comes from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145558	I also thought we had a very good hearing the other day. I just think it is a pity that the Minister has not learned anything from it. So it is not a question of a small star missing, it is a question of the Minister having answered a question from me • a § 20 question, no. S 426 - where a table has been provided which is not accurate; it clearly shows that there will be an increase in nitrogen pollution to the aquatic environment over the next four years of approx. 2,000 tonnes, and then there will be 2 years, in 2020 and 2021, where there will be approximately 2 years per year. year will be an environmental benefit of 1,000 tonnes. So we are faced with something that has a negative impact on the aquatic environment for the next six years, and I simply cannot understand why the Minister cannot simply say that this is the way to read the figures, because it would then be possible to see that the Minister has not properly answered a paragraph 20 question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145658	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145659	I always answer all the questions correctly, including the question put by Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. After all, we discussed it on Tuesday, when Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen asks about the overall effect, and I answer that, just as I enclose the very famous table, which we can gradually memorize. What's really weird is that sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen doesn't think we should start from what it looks like in reality, i.e. how the aquatic environment actually feels. Because there's a baseline effect that has an effect and that should therefore also be counted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145735	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145738	There may be many consequences. I understand that the Danish Nature Agency asked GEUS on 11 November to consider how the nitrate impact would be with the added fertilization planned here from 2016-2018, and the email we have received today, which is a news release on February 24, says: It is estimated that approx. 5% of the Danish groundwater resource will be affected by the phasing out of nitrogen standards in 2016-2018. I would like to know if the GEUS report is one that the Minister has ordered.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145815	I am, of course, very concerned about getting GEUS' assessment of whether there is a risk in relation to groundwater. And that's exactly what I answered Mr. Mr Bruus said that the parties that negotiated the food and agriculture package were very close to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145830	The next brief remark is from Mrs Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145833	Thank you. I have to say that it is extremely strange and also very regrettable that the Minister is standing up today with blinds and will not be dealing at all with the situation we are facing. Now I'm newly elected, but after all, I've been in line with the Constitution, and it says in section 15 paragraph 15. 1 that no minister may remain in office after the Folketing has expressed its distrust of him. I assume that the Minister is also familiar with the Constitution, so I would really just like to ask whether the Minister does not recognise that a majority of parties here in the Folketing have said out loud that they distrust the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145918	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145920	I agree that this is what the Constitution says.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145922	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145924	Okay. But it could be that the Minister could then also listen to those parties in the Folketing which have just a majority and say that there is distrust of the Minister. One must then assume that something else is true. The Minister also said that she could not understand that the alternative had mistrust. Well, that's one thing. But does the Minister consider it unreasonable that a majority in the Folketing has mistrust of the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145952	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145954	I repeat that I am dealing with the decisions that will be taken in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225145957	The next brief remark is from Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150000	The minister has misinformed the Folketing and has understated the consequences for the environment of this agricultural package. We have simply tried to draw a picture of the environmental consequences that are nicer than what is the reality. I know that the Minister does not agree with that, but a majority in the Danish Parliament believes so, and on that basis a majority of the Danish Parliament's parties have announced to the public that they no longer have confidence in the Minister. Why is it that the Minister does not resign? Among the parties at Christiansborg there is a majority who has openly announced that they no longer have confidence in the Minister. Why is it necessary to withdraw the matter from the Parliamentary Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150050	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150052	I haven't misinformed the Folketing. Of course I haven't. I wouldn't dream of doing that. On the contrary, I have left the figures open all the way through, and that also applies to the conditions and the way we have done it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150104	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150106	The minister did not answer the question. Many people have asked why the Minister is not resigning and each time the Minister has replied: well, it has not been voted on in the Parliamentary Chamber. And it is true that it has not been voted on in the Chamber. But I am sure that the Minister will follow the public debate in Denmark, and if you do so, you cannot help but notice that a majority of the parties in Christiansborg have made it quite clear that you no longer have confidence in the Minister. So I ask again, and this time I would like an answer: why does the Minister not resign? Why is the Minister suggesting that we should vote on a motion of censure in Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150153	A moment ago, Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen said that I had misinformed the Danish Parliament. I haven't. And what is the discussion is whether or not I have misinformed the Folketing, and I have clearly explained that I have not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150205	The next brief remark is from Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150211	Following on from that, I would like to ask the Minister: now the Minister says that she has not misinformed the Folketing, but who really decides? Who decides whether the Minister has misinformed the Folketing? Does the Minister decide, or does a majority in the Folketing decide?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150233	Well, I can only explain how I have processed the figures and put things forward and what information I have sent over. And I've arranged to inform the Danish Parliament of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150243	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150245	It was, in fact, a relatively simple question I asked. I put the question to the Minister: who decides whether the Minister has misinformed the Folketing? Does the Minister himself decide, or does a majority in the Folketing decide, whether there is any misinformed? I do not ask whether the Minister agrees with the Danish Parliament's decision. It is completely irrelevant that there is nothing about, and there is nothing next to the Folketing. So what I'm asking is who decides if it's misinformed. Is it the Minister who decides, or is it the Folketing that decides? Because we are in the slightly weird situation that the Folketing has been misinformed and yet the Minister allows himself to stand on the country's finest platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150325	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150327	Well, I understand that Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil is not at all interested in my interpretation of the situation. I understand that it is obviously quite irrelevant how I can explain that the figures are all pre-conditions, the whole basis of the political decisions that have been put forward openly. Then I would like to repeat the answer with which we actually started this debate, namely that I will always respect the decisions taken in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150352	The next brief remark is from Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150355	Well, you don't really know how to deal with this. On the one hand, it is almost comical, and on the other hand it is actually quite creepy that we are faced with a situation in which the majority of the Parliamentary Assembly has even expressed its distrust of the Minister here today. And for the first time in the parliamentary history of Denmark, the Minister chooses to ignore the majority of the people, to contest the majority of the people. Parties elected here in the Folketing by a majority of the Danes with the mandate to represent the Danes in here have announced, even here, that they no longer have confidence in the Minister. In other words, can the Minister at least acknowledge that the Minister is the first minister to choose to overhear a majority of the people after there has been distrust?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150457	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150459	On the contrary. I'm expressing respect for the Folketing. I understand that there is a majority in favour of the third reading of L 68, which is why I am, of course, present at this debate as the minister responsible for this matter. It was just like when I was in a consultation yesterday called by the Socialists, when I was given the opportunity to answer questions of conciliation, after which the Socialists, who had themselves called me in the consultation, chose to interrupt it in the middle of it all. Well, I am following what the Folketing is asking me to do, and right now there is a majority wishing to treat L 68 third.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150533	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150535	The Minister knows very well that one could have sent another minister or the Minister could have resigned, and then it was a new minister who dealt with L 68. So this is a strange way of avoiding the problem. The fact is that it is an expression of disrespect for the Folketing and disrespect for the office, when one chooses to completely ignore and overhear what a majority of the Danes have expressed quite, quite clearly, that on the basis of the course that has taken, there is no longer any confidence in the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150610	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150611	I am running for the consultation, I am running for the debate in the Chamber, as the Danish Parliament has asked me to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150617	The next brief remark is from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150622	Thank you. I know that the Minister is very proud of this agricultural package. The Minister has said that over and over again. That is why I simply have to ask the Minister if she cannot explain when it was seven researchers out of seven who questioned these figures on Tuesday and thought that they were misleading and when a majority in the Danish Parliament expressed that they did not trust the Minister, why the Minister did not already pull the emergency brake on Tuesday and said: we go straight back to the Ministry and examine these figures again and lay them out clearly. For the Minister is proud of the work the Minister has done. And then we can look at it with the right numbers, so that everyone has an opportunity to see in a transparent way what it is for a job that lies and to take a position on it. Then the minister couldn't have pulled the hand brake already on Tuesday?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150713	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150714	I'm gonna have to correct sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, because it is not the figures that are wrong. What I am being criticised for is that I have included the baseline effect for 2013, 2014 and 2015. There is a broad consensus that we should look at the whole period. The researchers behind the baseline report agree that the figure in 2021 is the right number. What is being discussed is how to include the baseline effect for 2013, 2014 and 2015. I, along with the parties behind the agreement, have chosen to include it because the effect is what is happening out there in reality. In other words, there is an effect of past actions and of other external factors. For me, the key is how we protect the aquatic environment, and I think that the focal point should be the aquatic environment and our protection of it. And what we have agreed is that in the coming years it will be a matter of making sure that there is no deterioration and then there will be an improvement. I think we have delivered that with the agreement that has been reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150817	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150817-2	I think it is a pity that the Minister chooses not to reply to what I am asking. Does it really not impress the Minister that seven out of seven researchers in this way are questioning it? And does it really not make the impression that a majority in the Folketing has expressed that they do not trust the Minister? Does it not make a personal impression on the Minister, who is now standing there and does not even answer the questions that are being asked?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150838	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150839	I mean, I'm answering the questions that are being asked. And yes, it makes a very big impression. That is what I said, because the same question was asked earlier. I do not like the fact that there is anything to criticize, for example. this inventory method, which deals with the baseline effect in 2013, 2014 and 2015. I think it is a pity that we should have so much fuss about the way we have done it. I just have to say that I have put it openly, how I have done it, and I have described the prerequisites. Well, it's done with open eyes, and it's sent over to the Folketing, so everyone has had the opportunity to deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150913	Next brief markings are from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225150915	Thank you. These are the specialists from whom the Minister himself has helped to obtain some figures. When they say that the figures cannot be used, as the Minister has done, what is it that makes the Minister say: I do anyway? In other words, they say that the Minister has used their figures in a way that they call creative accounting, and they use words such as misinformation and misinformation. I mean, if it had been some other academics who had said so, then I could even understand it, because then there was enough disagreement. But it is they who have made the figures, and that is why it is a little important to listen to them and say: Madam Minister, that is not the way to use the figures. And they even use quite powerful words. I'm not gonna tell you a lie, and they didn't tell me that either. But does the Minister find it strange that, on the basis of such clear reports from these scientists, one feels misled in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151023	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151024	Well, I can tell Mr. Knox... Christian Juhl, that I fully agree that it is important to listen if there is criticism from some researchers who have been asked to provide some figures themselves. And I can repeat that the researchers behind the baseline report fully agree with the figure for 2021. We have then also had a discussion about whether we should not divide it up on an annual basis, and so I think we need to do this for the sake of this debate on non-deterioration. However, this has to be seen from 2013 until 2021, and the final figures are agreed. The disagreement that then exists is about where to place the baseline effect for 2013, 2014 and 2015. But the researchers behind the baseline report agree with the end result.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151106	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151107	Yes, but what they are protesting about is that the Minister says that there is a green plus for the environment all the way through. That is why they say that the way the Minister has used the figures is creative accounting and that it is erroneous and misleading. I am gradually beginning to understand what this is all about and to get into depth with such things here, and it has been a training in the last few weeks. And I don't understand why the Minister doesn't say: hey, I don't want things like that hanging on me. For by the Folketing it can only be understood in one way, and that is that one is misled.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151142	I'll admit, sir. Christian Juhl, that it's complicated matter, and you need to spend some time getting down to the details of this. There is no doubt that over the years the package will go in a green plus. That is what is essential to achieve, and the researchers behind the baseline report agree with me that the figures are correct when seen over the years. There's the challenge, so where to include this effect for 2013, 2014 and 2015, and there's been a criticism of the way I've included it in the inventory.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151215	The next brief remark is from Mr. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151218	Thank you. My question is of a parliamentary nature, and it goes to a colleague, a minister who, as one of the few in here, has had a 25-year anniversary. I would really like to know who decides whether a minister has misled the Folketing by giving incorrect information to the Folketing. Who's gonna decide?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151239	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151241	In the situation where it is the Folketing that takes a position on matters, it does not mean so much what you think it is that the majority of the Folketing decides it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151250	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151251	Thank you. I'm glad to hear that, because that's how the game rules are. Then I would like to hear why the Minister will not listen to the majority of the people who have now expressed, both in consultation and in several consultations, that there has not been a true picture of the course of negotiations that has taken place and the agreement that will later be voted on today. Why is it that the Minister will not listen to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151315	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151317	I just have to say that I disagree with that. I think I have given a clear, accurate picture and that it has been presented openly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151324	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151326	Thank you. It is clear to everyone that there is a majority in the Folketing who has mistrust of the Minister. At the same time, the Minister says that we are not going to comply with this, but that we are, of course, following a parliamentary decision. Is it to be understood that the Minister refuses to resign before we have voted on it in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151350	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151351	I note that a majority wanted to deal with L 68 third, and that is why we have this debate today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151359	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151400	That was not an answer to the question: does the Minister refuse to resign before we have voted on it in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151411	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151412	I have no further comment to make on that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151415	The next brief remark is from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151419	Then I would be kind enough to follow up on my colleague's question. The Minister has previously said that it is a majority in the Folketing that assesses whether the Minister is telling the truth or not, and a majority in the Folketing believes that the Minister has provided misleading information in the Folketing on the agricultural package. Yes, there is now a majority in the Folketing who believe that this is misleading information and there will be an urgent question which has been tabled and supported by a majority in the Folketing of the very same parties to be dealt with on Wednesday. There the Minister will be met by a majority against his person and his continued activities as Minister for the Environment and Food. Is that the first place the minister chooses to leave?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151504	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151506	I have given legal information to the Folketing, so I actually think the whole premise for the question is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151513	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151515	I try again: if the Minister is voted down on Wednesday by a majority in the Folketing, does the Minister resign or does the Minister also choose to sit and overhear a majority in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151528	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151529	It's a lot of days till Wednesday.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151533	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151537	I would just like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for the work that has been done on this matter. We have reached a political agreement on the basis of what a bourgeois majority wanted. It will hopefully be voted through in a little to the benefit of the agricultural industry, the accompanying industries and the environment, and with export earnings for our welfare societies and thousands of jobs resulting. Thank you for that effort. I would just like to ask: how does the Minister experience the séance that we had yesterday in some media stunt called the Minister in consultation, motivated the consultation question and allowed the Minister to answer and then use the argument that there was distrust of the Minister to interrupt the consultation? Now, obviously, we want to discuss both the process and the content of the package we are discussing here with the Minister. What is the Minister's assessment of that behavior?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151629	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151631	Well, you can only wonder about that performance yesterday. Moreover, we conducted the closed consultation with the presentation of the forthcoming EU Council agenda. It was obviously wanted to be presented, and it is a little surprising that the closed consultation was interesting. The odd thing in the open consultation was that the questioner, who is a Socialist, justified the question and only chose to interrupt after I had answered it. I think that is a strange course in a parliamentary committee. But let me finally say that the crucial thing for me and what I welcome today is that, in the middle of all this crisis, we are now dealing with L 68 and that, as the rapporteurs have said, there is a majority in favour of voting through L 68. I'm really glad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151722	Then we move on to the next brief remark, which is from Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151729	Is it, as the Minister says to the Folketing now, that the Minister is resigning immediately after this third reading?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151741	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151743	I simply cannot imagine what Mrs Stine Brix's view is like.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151747	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151749	Then it must be the case that Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen says that she will not resign until the Folketing has voted on a distrust agenda on Wednesday. Why is it that Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen insists that there should be a vote here in the Danish Parliament when it has been clearly expressed not only in public but also here in the Chamber today, in the debate we now have, that there is no confidence that Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen can call herself a minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151823	I think, when I got this question here earlier, I said that I have no further comments on that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151830	Let us take another brief comment. It's from sir. Jonas Dahl, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151833	There is a great deal of confusion about what the Minister is replying to. I just want to hear: does the Minister expect to be a minister next Thursday?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151842	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151843	Here and now I welcome the fact that there is a majority behind L 68, which we have now dealt with thirdly today and had a very good discussion of. I think it is a very important decision that is being taken and I am glad that I am part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151857	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151858	Well, that's not what was asked. It was asked whether the Minister expects to be a minister in a week's time. Because there has been so much controversy about this, and not least the content of the agreement we are discussing here today, and it is of course also interesting to know whether the Minister is also going to be the minister who will ultimately implement the bill. That is what is at the heart, and that is what has been the debate today, yesterday, the day before yesterday. And the Minister must also have observed that there is a majority against her. There's a mistrust of the Minister. Doesn't the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151930	Now I have very readily replied to all the questions that have been raised. I just have to say that what we are discussing right now is the third reading of L 68, and in this context I do not really think those issues are so relevant. What matters is the content of L 68 and the importance of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151950	There is one more brief comment, and it is from Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225151954	Does the Minister think that the government currently in office must follow a majority in the Folketing at all times?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225152004	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225152006	I don't know if I understood that question. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225152010	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225152013	Does the Minister think that a government should follow a majority in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225152017	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225152019	This is quite important for a government to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225152024	We thank the Minister for the answers to all the comments. Do more people want to speak? Since we need 2 minutes in relation to the time limit we usually give people to come down to the Chamber, I suggest we just breathe, but please stay in your seats, because we would like to have a vote in 2 minutes and yes, it is a good thing to breathe!
ParlaMint-DK_20160225152206	I understand that there are no more people who wish to speak and, as that is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225152213	The final adoption of the draft law will be put to the vote, and that is Bill No. L 68, we're voting on. And as soon as your boards are ready, we can vote. We shall conclude the vote. In favour 52 (DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 49 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225152300	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225152342	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and is draft law No. L 86. We shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 101 votes. The bill has been passed and will now be forwarded to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225152421	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, and that is why the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225152448	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (EL and ALT) and can be voted on. We shall conclude the vote. In favour 18 (EL, ALT and SF), against 83 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27 and 29 submitted and joined by the same minorities as rejected. They are rejected. The vote will then be taken on Amendment No 1, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 2 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (EL and ALT) and can be voted on. We shall conclude the vote. In favour 18 (EL, ALT and SF), against 83 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, 26, 28 and 30 submitted and joined by the same minorities as rejected. They are rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 31, joined by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225152704	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225152744	The debate is open, and first it is Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225152826	Thank you. I want to say that the Socialists support this bill. This is a very good draft law, which has in fact been in demand for a long time by both patient organisations and professional staff groups and organisations. Unfortunately, there are quite a lot of citizens who find themselves in a situation where they are unable to take care of themselves and thus cannot secure the normal, secure environment and physical security. This also applies when, for example, citizens are admitted to the country's hospitals or to the country's nursing home. Unfortunately, we hear too often about citizens who have gone away from home, away from their homes in nursing homes or hospital wards, without knowing what they are doing. Unfortunately, we are also hearing about far too many situations where they are found too late. This is a very serious situation and this proposal for a directive calls for us to try to prevent the very serious situations. The bill here ensures that you are hospitalized, and if you are either permanently incompetent or brought into a situation where you are ill-advised, personal alarms and directional systems can be used, that is, what we know in everyday terms as GPS equipment. In the same way that the Services Act has, in fact, for several years enabled us to make use of this kind of electronic equipment in municipal institutions, the aim of the bill we are dealing with here today is to create the same good opportunities at state and regional institutions, especially hospitals. The aim is to create a really better and more secure and dignified care and treatment situation for these very vulnerable citizens, i.e. overall to create a more secure health care system. But the aim is also to create greater security for families and touching and to help staff to provide a more dignified framework for their daily care tasks, thus helping to prevent these serious situations. Therefore, increased use of GPS equipment is the content and purpose of this legislation, and at the same time it is built into the legislation that staff are given the opportunity to escort people back to a department. It is a question that the use of electronic systems is done solely to achieve these objectives. It is not a question of replacing personal care and care with electronic equipment, and this is made clear in the bill. It is gratifying that for a very long time we have had a very good political process on this bill. It is also gratifying to see that there have been a great many positive consultation responses and that some consultation responses have suggested that adjustments have been made to the legislative proposal. The bill has clarified who has the authority and responsibility for making decisions on the use of GPS in hospitals. It is the Chief Medical Officer with the consent of his immediate contact or guardian. The draft law also specifies how it should be recorded and provides for reporting to health authorities on the use of this electronic tracking equipment. It is also proposed that an evaluation of the law should be carried out after two years, and we are very satisfied with this by the Social Democrats. So, overall, we Social Democrats are pleased that we have come up with such a good legislative proposal and that so many parties have been consulted and have said that they think this looks really good. And it is precisely to prevent serious situations for some of the most vulnerable fellow citizens we have in our society, those who cannot create the secure everyday framework that they could in the past, if they have ever had the ability to do so. So, from the Socialist side, we are happy to support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225153328	Thank you, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225153343	Thank you, sir. President. Now we have just been in the election campaign together in the same great circle, so it might be that the President had noticed my name there. My name is Jeppe Jakobsen. Then it's just added. Every day we hear in the media about people with dementia who have disappeared, and we can all imagine how terrible it must be when someone we care about and who are close relatives has had a disease that makes them unable to find their own homes. Therefore, we have also several times amended the law so that people with dementia in the municipalities can get a GPS so that they can be located and brought back home. But a few years ago there was a problem in one of our hospitals when a citizen suddenly disappeared. He had dementia and was unfortunately found too late. The hospital sought the Ministry to be allowed to use GPS on patients who have dementia, but unfortunately the law did not allow it. Then we've been working on how we could change the law from here, so it was allowed. That is why we in the Danish People's Party are very pleased that the Minister has now put forward this proposal. We are also very pleased that the Minister was responsive and changed the bill to deal with temporary incabile too, because we know what it is like with the law. It bears witness to the earlier example of the fact that it has to be followed, which means that one is hospitalized with strokes, possible dementia or another brain damage or, as a third of the elderly, with organic delir, the law will not apply to them. We raised this problem with the Minister, because it would be a real shame if we had to wait another two years to get a law to help this group of vulnerable people. So thank you to the Minister for including it in this bill. So we are really happy with the change and we are sure that it will be well received, because we are all concerned when some of our relatives are admitted and we cannot be present ourselves. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225153607	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen from the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225153616	Thank you for the floor. I must say that I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. Today, we are dealing first with a draft law amending the Health Act and the Law on the Authorisation of Health Careers and on Healthcare Services. In short, it concerns the possibility of using personal alarm and directional systems, the possibility of detention and the possibility of returning patients to a somatic hospital department permanently or temporarily. This is a bill that has been in the pipeline for a long time, and we on the Left have looked forward to the first reading, because the need is there. In the press we have, among other things. was able to read: On 10 August 2011 a 50-year-old dement man from Næstved Hospital disappeared, on 14 February 2015 a 75-year-old dement man from Esbjerg Hospital disappeared, and on 10 January 2016 a man who had had a brain hemorrhage disappeared from Holbæk Hospital. These are just three sad examples out of a large number of other sad examples of how demented or other patient groups who, for one reason or another, have a reduced mental capacity or cannot take care of themselves for a short or long time have disappeared from the somatic hospital wards. The bill here is intended to help create security and to show those who are permanently or temporarily ill-advised, care and respect. But it is also a question of giving staff the opportunity to care for patients. If, as now, you choose to allow the staff of the somatic departments to apply personal alarm and directional systems to patients with impaired mental function and to withhold and re-impose this group of patients, then there are many considerations behind it. And we have devoted a great deal of energy to discussing the possibilities and, above all, the ethical dilemmas that such a bill raises. For it is a delicate balance between the respect for freedom and integrity that everyone is entitled to, on the one hand, and the desire to protect and secure the framework of safe hospitalization both for patients and relatives on the other. For us in the Left, it is a matter of great importance that the social law already provides for the possibility of using personal alarm and directional systems, but not in hospitals, and that is precisely what the bill opens up now in relation to the health law. It also weighs heavily on us in the Left that the comments on the bill stress three things in particular: that in the specific situation there is a real risk that the patient will suffer personal injury by leaving the hospital; that it is a prerequisite that the intervention is absolutely necessary to prevent personal injury; and, last but not least, it is also of great importance to us that the intervention should be as gentle as possible and that the interventions in retention or reversal should not cause physical damage to the patient. The minimum mean and proportionality principles are absolutely crucial here. The starting point for the bill was originally the permanent inadvisable, but several consultation responses have pointed out that it makes good sense to include the group of temporary inhabiles as well. This means that patients with e.g. delir or patients who are confused will also be able to benefit from the security that is intended to be created by the bill as long as the patient is ill-advised. Of course, the actions must be stopped as soon as the patient can take care of himself again, just as all interventions must be recorded. The Alzheimer's Association, Danish Disability Organizations and the Ethical Council all point out in their hearing answers that the opportunities offered by new technology to care for patients' safety must not replace personal care and care. It is good point to have in mind, and I share those considerations, that the meeting between people can never be replaced by a machine. Although the draft law here provides a clear legal basis for the regions to be able to impose personal alarm and directional systems on patients with the permission of the head medical officer of the department, and there are also provisions in the draft law as regards guardians and immediate relatives, yes, it cannot be ruled out that situations may arise along the way which are currently difficult to foresee. That is why we in the Left support the assessment of the law here two years after its entry into force, so as to ensure that both patients' legal certainty and the objective of protecting patients' safety, dignity and integrity are intact. The Left supports the bill as it has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225154045	Thank you to Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left. The next rapporteur is Mrs Stine Brix from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225154053	The bill here, as several have already mentioned, is about giving an opportunity to use GPS in relation to, for example, dementia in a hospital. It is a proposal which interferes with the individual patient's self-determination with the aim of caring for the patient. Today, of course, we are primarily familiar with such interventions from psychiatry, which is why it is, of course, a question of principle and an ethical issue on which we must take a decision. It is therefore, on the one hand, the balancing of individual self-determination and, on the other hand, the need to be able to provide care. For us in the Enhedslisten, it is absolutely essential that it is emphasised in the bill that this kind of intervention can only be applied with the patient's best interests in mind and that it can never be applied with reference to resource, personnel or economic conditions, just as it is also emphasised that it is a last resort or a minimum remedy and that other methods must have been tried first. It is new after the consultation phase that the temporary involvement group is also included in the legislative proposal, and I am perhaps a little more sceptical about that than is seen from what other rapporteurs have pointed out. It is firstly because it is a group which is considerably harder to define. Secondly, because there may of course be doubts as to when you are temporarily indisposed, in a completely different way than that of a group that is permanently insufferable. I also think that this is actually very good in the consultation note, where among other things. The Danish Disability Organizations and the Ethical Council are calling for the bill to work with some kind of disability or dementia investigation, to which the Ministry responds that there is no need, in that the bill deals with the permanent inhabile. But that is precisely what has changed. I therefore believe that we still need to take a position on how to ensure that it does not become too far-reaching an intervention in self-determination when we also talk about the group of temporary inhabiles, which may be considerably more difficult to define than the other group. That is not to say that we cannot support going that way, but that is to say that we have a number of questions and a number of concerns about that very thing. And we would also like to ask once again whether it is not relevant to carry out a feasibility assessment when the group is now enlarged. Another question is about storing the data that is generated. It is clear from the draft law that it is the regions that are the data controllers and that it is therefore also they who are responsible. Nevertheless, I think it is very important that we fully agree that this must mean that the data stored are not the position data for the patient back in time. What's relevant in this context is where the patient is at the moment you can't find him. But where the patient has been is, in fact, completely subordinate. Therefore, of course, those data should not be stored. But the conclusion is that we are positive about this bill. We see a need. We think it is very important to strike the right balance. I think it is also a long way along the way in this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225154439	Thank you to Mrs Stine Brix from the Enhedslisten. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225154447	Thank you. As we have already heard, the aim of this proposal is to increase patient safety for demented people and other people who are permanently or temporarily inhabited and cannot take care of themselves. Healthcare professionals are given the opportunity to take care of these patients by using e.g. a GPS, so you can react if the patient is leaving the ward and putting himself at risk, which unfortunately has been seen many examples of. Health care professionals may withhold or return patients permanently or temporarily, but shall neither restrain patients nor lock them in. And personal pointer systems must never replace personal care. Since the proposal is intended solely to ensure the well-being of patients, the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225154541	Thank you to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225154548	Thank you. I will start by saying that in the alternative, we are also positive about this bill. Among other things: We welcome the fact that the draft law very clearly expresses a intention to take the lead in caring for the patient while preserving dignity, which, of course, for us and for everyone else, is also very important. We also welcome the fact that it is actually stressed that the use of these new technological possibilities must not be made by reference to human resources. Other rapporteurs have also mentioned this, and this is, of course, very important. We are pleased that it has been decided to evaluate the scheme after two years. In such a bill as this, there may well prove to be something that is complex and that has many facets. Among other things: I agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur that when it is then that you are incompetent may be difficult to assess in the situation. So there may be aspects to the implementation of the bill, which we have not been aware of from the outset and which will emerge in a subsequent evaluation and which we will then have to have the necessary political humility to change. And I think there are great and good intentions in the bill. We have a couple of attention points. One relates to something of the same, as the National Knowledge Centre for Dementia and Danske Patients and the Danish Society for Patient Safety say in their hearing answer, in which they call on the government to ensure that some resources are provided for the staff to develop skills, in terms of how to act in a situation where, for example, you can use them. must withhold a dement patient. It's both about handling this detention in a way that spares the patient, but it's also very much about the physical and psychological working environment of the staff. And it has actually even been suggested by the Danish Society for Patient Safety that you find inspiration in the forced package made in psychiatry. We very much support the consultation responses to say that when you come up with such a bill as this, it would be appropriate to include resources that staff can use for the development of skills. The Ministry replied to this, and I quote from the consultation note: 'It is the view of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly that decisions on further training etc. of staff should be taken by the regions as operational and personnel responsible authorities within the existing financial framework of the regions. I simply do not think that is good enough. I myself come from health care and I know how frustrating it can be for the working environment when new rules are imposed from above, but resources do not follow that. So I can be concerned that resources are being taken from other areas for this task or that skills are not being developed well enough among staff, which is also a major problem. So this is a concern which I hope the government will take into account in further work. The second point of concern is one which the Ethical Council also mentions in their hearing reply, namely that it is apparent from the draft law that the right of appeal against interference in the right of self-determination in the somatics must follow the applicable right of appeal. After all, these complaints are dealt with in the Board of Patient Safety, and there is a long wait, and that means that it may mean that you will not be able to agree to a complaint while you are in the process of being treated, even if it may last several weeks. It is therefore not inconceivable that a patient may repeatedly be deprived of his or her self-determination, even though he or she is actually able to make the relevant decisions, and we think this is actually a very important point of attention. So we would like to call on the government to reconsider and try to see if there was another appeal body that could ensure that in these cases the complaint could take place more quickly. These are the two points of attention we have to it, but we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225154941	Thank you to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225154948	Thank you. It can be dangerous when a person with dementia doesn't know where he is while in a hospital and thinks of walking out the door. It's not hard to imagine what it must be like if you think you're on your way home, and then suddenly you don't know where you are and can't find your way back. Unfortunately, this happens sometimes, which is why the Radical Left is behind this bill. We believe it is important that the patient himself and the patient's family can be confident that the patient has the right care and care and that the hospital is at all a safe place. Until now, hospitals have not been allowed to equip a patient with a GPS without consent, nor has it been permitted until now to return a patient who has left or is leaving a hospital ward if it is against the patient's will. The staff may call the police, but it can make the experience somewhat more violent, both because the human being with dementia may be able to go quite far away, but also because most of us will probably still think that being held and led back by a policeman is more violent than if it is by a health care professional. With the proposal here, we therefore allow, as the other rapporteurs have also mentioned, the health staff of our somatic hospitals to use GPS for temporary or permanent intolerable patients and, in exceptional cases, to be able to physically withhold or return these patients to the hospital department if they have left or are leaving the department. In the Radical Left, we are generally in favour of restricting surveillance and coercion, which is why this is a very special matter for us too. My assessment is that this makes sense for the individual and his or her family, just as we have together tried to decouple it by adding an obligation to report, a right of appeal and an evaluation into the bill, so that we keep a leash on that it is not used more than is necessary. The Radical Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225155214	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod from the Radical Left. Then the last rapporteur is Mr. Jonas Dahl from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225155221	After all, the draft law aims to strengthen the care and protection of demented persons and other persons who, because of one or other type of disability, may depart from the institution, the nursing home or where they are now staying. This is something that I think has touched many of us, not least the numerous examples of particularly elderly people who have passed away and who have subsequently spent infinite amounts of resources on finding and sometimes, unfortunately, have also found too late. That is why I think it is important that we take this step forward and look at what we can do to protect these elderly people, who will be mostly involved. I think it is a good thing that we are now moving along this path, even if I share the concerns that others have also raised about registration and about what monitoring we are putting in place. But I think it is important to make it clear that this is a special group which needs care, support and monitoring in a quite different way from many others, because otherwise the consequences may be fatal to this particular group. Therefore, it is also important that this happens with the consent of the patient's immediate relatives or guardians together with a doctor, so that both medical supervision of it and the support of the action of relatives are ensured. It will usually be those who share the concern for the elderly. The second point, which, among other things, is: The radical rapporteur also mentioned, I think, is proposing both to record and report the interventions that will take place, and I believe that this will also be an important political task, following up on what sort of interventions are actually going to take place. And if it is the case that we go too far, then of course it will also be something that we must pay attention to politically. I am therefore confident that health professionals will be able to carry out the difficult task that they are now going to have in assessing the specific cases, and I also believe that this is an approach which will be welcomed by both health professionals, but also by the many relatives who have a concern that their elderly should go out. Against this background, the SF can support the proposal, but we will follow in particular closely to ensure that the filings to which it is proposed are also followed to the door.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225155433	Thank you, sir. Jonas Dahl from SF. Then there is access for the Minister of Health and the Minister of the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225155445	Thank you. Thank you for your comments and for the debate. I am very pleased that all such basic and overall support for the legislative proposal, which we have also spent a long time discussing thoroughly before it has become a legislative proposal here today, namely as part of our discussions on ethical issues in health care. I think it has become a good tradition that we health rapporteurs can go into depth with some of the important areas and issues and sometimes dilemmas that we have and experience and which require us to spend some extra time together in order to find the right balance. I welcome the fact that we hope to be able to adopt the bill as part of helping to ensure greater security and security for inpatients. The draft law allows us to use GPS equipment in order to locate patients who have left a hospital department and who are at risk of injury. It will also be possible to withhold and return patients who are leaving the department or who have left the department. I think we have found a sensible and balanced arrangement which takes into account both the protection of the patient's safety, dignity and personal integrity and the consideration of the patient's right to self-determination. I have noted, as I have said, that overall there is general and broad and, of course, almost unambiguous support for the draft law, but I have also noted that there are a number of questions and concerns that we must have drilled out and answered during the further reading of the committee, and of course I am making myself available for that. But thank you again for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225155643	Thank you to the Minister for Health and the elderly. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. If there are no objections, I consider this proposal to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225155705	The debate is open, and it is first the Minister for Health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225155728	Thank you for that and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution to remove transsexuality from the health classification system and to ensure that the authorities work actively to remove groups F64 and F65.1 from the WHO classification system called ICD-10. Everyone has a gender identity. However, there are also some people who experience that there is a difference between the gender they were born with and the gender they experience to belong to. It is only when people who feel that they are born in the wrong body seek treatment that we talk about transgenders or transsexuals. First of all, I would like to stress and put a thick line on the fact that I fully agree with the proposers that transsexuality and transsexuality do not, in the words of the Danish Health Service, represent a mental or somatic medical condition. This is also clear from the Guide on the investigation and treatment of the transbejælde, which was published by the Danish Health Authority back in December 2014. But when a person approaches the hospital and seeks treatment, it happens that the doctors make a diagnosis. In the health care system, a diagnosis is a very common prerequisite for and part of the treatment of patients. In fact, a diagnosis includes the outcome of the professional judgements and considerations of the health professionals in relation to the treatment. A diagnosis is therefore the basis of the treatment offered and the guarantee that the treatment is offered on a sound basis. In the treatment of transsexuals and transsexuals, it is important to be aware that hormone treatment and surgery are typically extensive interventions and also interventions that can not just be reversed. Therefore, it is also important that there is no doubt that it is the treatment being initiated and that the person seeking treatment has given his informed consent. The government cannot therefore agree with the proposers' desire to completely remove transsexuality from the health classification system. In other words, it is important to say that the diagnosis of transsexuality is relevant in a clinical context, not as a disease, but as an indication of treatment. Because when hormone treatments or surgical procedures are used to treat the sex-modifying sex, the justification and thus the diagnosis is precisely the transsexuality of the person. Therefore, transsexuality should continue to be found in the health care diagnostic classification system. This is among other things. to ensure what we all want, namely that transsexuals and transsexuals receive the best and most secure treatment. We follow in Denmark WHO's international diagnostic classification system called ICD-10. It is considered by health professionals as a professional and neutral working tool. This is absolutely necessary, among other things. in specific medical clinical work, the ability to communicate internationally in a common language in the form of the ICD-10 diagnostic classification system. This also applies to the monitoring and international comparison of quality, statistics and planning. ICD-10 is an overview of the reasons why people come into contact with health care. That cause can be very different. It contains many different groups, including groups that are not sick, for example. pregnant, healthy, newborn and hospitalised healthy companions, but I fully agree that it can be seen as offensive that transsexuality is today placed in a subgroup called gender identity disorders in a section called psychiatric disorders and behavioural disorders. So we need to change that, no doubt about it. The ICD-10 is currently being revised. The revised classification system will be the 11th edition and will therefore also be called ICD-11. Compared to the previous version, the ICD-11 will have extensive changes in the whole structure and content of the system. Denmark is working with the other EU countries, not least the Nordic countries, for transsexuality to be placed in a new section or in another section of the ICD-11. For good reasons, I cannot say here today exactly where we land or end up. However, I can inform you that the status of the work with ICD-11 right now is that transsexualism is expected and hopefully being moved to the section "Factors fluencing health status and contact with health services." This means that transsexuality will no longer be covered by the chapter on psychiatric disorders and behavioural disorders and the subgroup on gender identity disorders. For both F64, i.e. gender identity disorders, and F65, it seems that the concepts will not be included in ICD-11 at all, and that is why the work on ICD-11 is also complete and fully in line with what I think we are all agreed in the Danish Parliament on in this area, namely to place transsexuality in a new section, which is not experienced as stigmatising or discriminatory by trannised people. The work on ICD-11 is also fully in line with the proposers' wish that F64 and F65.1 should be completely removed from the WHO classification system. As I said, we do not know for sure where it ends, but I can inform you that ICD-11 is expected to be ready for presentation at the World Health Assembly in May 2018. As I said at the outset, I fully agree with the proposers that transsexuality is not a disease. It's not a somatic or mental illness. Gender identity is something we all have, and we should all have respect and understanding for how the individual perceives his or her gender. However, when a person who perceives himself as transgender, he approaches the hospital with a desire for treatment such as: hormone treatment or surgery, is the basic cause of the person's transsexuality. Therefore, the diagnosis of transsexuality is also still clinically relevant. It is not relevant as disease, but as an indication for treatment, complete like that pregnancy is not a disease, but an indication for treatment. And transsexuality should therefore still be found in the diagnosis classification. I share many of the views and intentions behind the resolution we are debating today. Actually, I think the whole parliament does. But the crucial argument for me and the government in this case is that the tranned can get as good and safe a treatment as possible if desired. A prerequisite for this is that there is a diagnostic code so that the treatment can be done in a clear indication, so that the treatment can be followed up, and so that research is able to develop and make the treatment better and safer. So it is in fact the consideration of the tranners who make us think that there is a need to stick to the laid line, namely that Denmark, together with the other countries that share our point of view in this matter, is working to get it classified so that it does not conflict with the values that we think are important, but it should not be completely tampered with. In the end, that does not serve the interests. The government cannot therefore support the main aim of the resolution, namely the removal of transsexuality from the health classification system. At the same time, however, I would like to be cautious in welcoming the fact that the status of work with ICD-11 is very well in line with the Danish wishes to move transsexuality to a new group in the classification system and, in relation to the part of the motion for a resolution which obliges the government to work actively to remove sub-groups F64 and F65.1 from the WHO classification of diseases, I can finally say that we and others already do so. That work seems to be bearing fruit right now. I would also very much like to enter into the further dialogue on what we can do in the short term to make it even clearer that, at the same time as we are working on what must be the objective, namely to change the WHO classification system, we have a national track that shows that we in Denmark do not consider the diagnosis of transsexualism to be an expression of a disease or suffering. We have already had a closed consultation on this, where I think we had some very good discussions, and, as I said, I am very happy to go further in a constructive dialogue with the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225160725	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225160733	Thank you for that and thank you for the statement by the Minister. No, I think I'm gonna start somewhere else. I would like to start by saying that the Minister is right to say that there is an error in the motion for a resolution, but I admit that we do not want to remove transgender from the ICD-10 but move it into another chapter, and that will require a specification on our part. It was not in the original resolution, but that is what we want. We would like to move the diagnostic code into Chapter 21, to which the Minister also refers, and to which we have also heard from the environment that you want to be placed. So it's an admission. My question concerns what the Minister says about the fact that it is expected that the work of the WHO will be completed in 2018. It should have been completed for the first time in 2012. Then it was pushed to 2014, then it was pushed to 2015, and then again now to 2018. Can the Minister give a guarantee that we have finished work and that the code has moved in 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225160841	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225160843	First of all, I note that the authors of the motion do not quite mean what is actually proposed in the proposal. That is, of course, positive enough, because then we have already come closer to what I also call a common goal in relation to our work here in the Folketing. It is of course no secret that we have been discussing this issue in this matter several times over for many years, and when I have always seen in my time as the health rapporteur that there has been a common interest in what is the aim, namely to change the WHO classification system. Then I share the rapporteur's vexation, one might say, that it has not been completed before. I myself am also one of the impatient people who would have liked us to have gone further in this work, but with regard to whether I can give a guarantee here from Parliament's platform that we will finally be finished in 2018, I can say that it is a guarantee that is not in my hands to be able to give, because it is a guarantee which also assumes that everyone else agrees and is prepared to be able to give that guarantee. But I can assure the Danish side, on behalf of the government, that we will not delay the work. On the contrary, we are working actively to promote work in relation to what is the Danish interests. We are advocating this through a Nordic track and, in particular, by speaking with our voice in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225161016	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225161018	But I am glad that the Minister says so, because I did not expect a guarantee to be given either. I also understand why, but in view of the many, you might say, discharges that have been so far, it is also clear to everyone that 193 countries in the WHO have to agree on this, and not everyone has the same view of transgenderness as we have in Denmark. Therefore, if you ask me, there is a great likelihood that this will not be completed in 2018. So my question to the Minister is: will the Minister then take the initiative that we in Denmark, until the WHO finds out a new categorization, then go ahead and change the code or move the code into that section, we have been talking about • so now while we are waiting for the WHO?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225161107	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225161109	I do not quite share the rapporteur's probabilities, I suppose. I think, in fact, that there is a good probability that we can achieve the target in 2018, a goal that I would have liked to have seen us achieve sooner. As I have also indicated, the objective is the important one for us, because that is where we can really make the difference between changing something not just ourselves but what is the WHO classification system that all countries use. But I would also like to work out a different path: what can we do in the Danish context? And it was here that I thought we had a really constructive dialogue about it in the closed consultation that we had under the auspices of the Committee on Health and Prevention, where we were just discussing what we can do on the Danish side in the short run in relation to adding a note or something that makes it clear that we do not consider it possible to have a diagnostic code for transsexualism as an expression of a disease or a suffering, because that is our clear starting point, and that is what I believe we all agree on here in the Folketing. It could also be said in this way that we all agree on the objective. Now it's about getting there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225161226	The next brief remark is from Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225161231	What we in Denmark can do in the short run is for me to see a very simple, concrete thing, namely that we take the initiative to take the lead and move the codes we are talking about more than one chapter, so it clearly signals that, when you are transgender, you do not have a psychiatric disorder, then you do not have a personality disorder, as is shown today. It is therefore simply a question to the Minister: why will the government not do exactly that, making the decision to move the codes to another chapter? Then you can always later, if it should one day go so well that the WHO makes a decision to do something in this area, follow that decision. But why is it that we should not take the lead in this area and move the diagnosis away from the psychiatric classification system to somewhere else in the classification system?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225161338	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225161339	As I mentioned earlier, it is possible to make some national changes to the international classification. It can, for example, be done. We do this by making more detailed sub-sections or by completely dropping diagnoses for which we do not offer treatments at all, which are therefore superfluous and which are therefore not needed. This is what Denmark did when homosexuality and sadomasochism were deleted from it. After all, this is no longer something for which treatment is given. However, Denmark cannot simply move around the diagnosis in the classification system or establish its own special Danish chapters. At the same time, I would also say that it would be unfortunate to completely delete a diagnosis which, after all, is still really an indication of treatment. But that is what I am delighted to say in the motion for a resolution that it does not mean anyway. So far, so good. We can do something on the Danish side, and it is in that sense that I reach out to Members, namely in relation to being able to enter into further discussions on it. I have suggested that we do as we did in Sweden, because if it was as simple as Mrs Stine Brix outlines, please let me know if there were not some others who had just done so. This has consequences which I am not entirely sure Mrs Stine Brix is interested in. However, we can do as we do in Sweden, and we may even go further, by adding a note which makes it quite clear that we do not therefore consider it either to have a code of diagnosis of transsexualism as an expression of a disease or suffering.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225161511	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225161513	I can at least hear that there is an opportunity for us to agree quite quickly to delete F65.1 which is about transvestism, which is, moreover, a code that is not used at all in Denmark today and which I believe can be fully compared with homosexuality and sadomasochism, which has already been deleted. So maybe that's an option. I simply do not understand the Minister for Health's argument that we cannot do so. Of course we can. We can make a decision that this is how we think our classification system should look in Denmark • that it should, for example, appear in chapter 11 or chapter 12 or in a third chapter where we think it might be relevant that there may be codes for e.g. gender identity disorders or other things that we think could be the name of that which can provide an indication of being treated in the health care system. I know that this is also something that has been decided on elsewhere. At any rate, I have read an article stating that it has been decided in France and Malta. But we can look into how they've done that. So I have two questions: could we make a decision to delete 651? And couldn't we, if we wanted to, move the code to another chapter?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225161629	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225161630	In relation to the penultimate, what I said in my speech was that we are in agreement on this, namely that diagnostic codes that are not relevant, because they are not something for which treatment is required, we do not need them. But we cannot just delete those we need, and that is what I am delighted that the rapporteurs for the authors of the motion have also arrived at, despite the fact that they propose it in their own motion for a resolution, because I think it is a step forward that we have come to that realization. Then I am not aware that there are other countries that have deleted or completely moved things to other paragraphs or other things, as the rapporteur said. But that is something that we can get drilled into the further reading of the committee and thus get it clarified. In any case, I can neither confirm nor deny that this is the case. However, we are starting the work of the office to find clarification on this as soon as possible. But last, when we asked France, the diagnostic code for transsexualism was still away in the psychiatric diagnosis section. We were told this by France as recently as November last year, so it was not so long ago after all. After all, moving the diagnosis to a new location should take place internationally. Now I can see from the President's position in the Chair, or whatever that is called, if you do not have to say anything wrong, that I shall end now, but it may be that there will be an opportunity to elaborate on it later.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225161800	I think so, because there are a number of people who have wanted to make brief comments. And the next one is the wish of Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225161806	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister. In the rapporteur's note, which has been sent over, the Minister describes that a change, regardless of the WHO classification, hampers international health-care communication on trannages. Is there not a weighting here in relation to international work, where we have to say that there is therefore a minority group in Denmark which has expressed a desire for the relocation of this diagnosis? Why don't we start weighting this minority group and take it seriously that this isn't just last year, it's been postponed. It has been postponed so many times, and I heard a good colleague here in the Danish Parliament who said that she thought that she had put forward something similar in 2001. In other words, this is not a new matter; this is an old matter, and the Minister knows that as a former rapporteur for his party in the field of health. So should we not soon put the minority group above international cooperation in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225161914	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225161915	Yes, there is a consideration that is far more important than statistics, and that is the need to ensure that high quality health care is given to the minority group mentioned by the rapporteur. That is also why I am saying that we cannot simply delete a diagnosis, which is still really an indication of treatment, or simply move it around, so we will probably be the only country that then does not follow the WHO classification system. Above all, a diagnostic code is a working tool to ensure that the treatments we offer in the Danish health care system are provided professionally. So if we say tomorrow that we are just changing the code of transsexuality, that means in the long term that the tranned do not really receive a health care treatment that is as safe as other treatment offers. And I also believe that we have an interest in what the rapporteur just calls statistics, but which is more than that, namely that you as a citizen, as a patient, move between national borders. It is not quite unusual for treatment to take place across countries, and therefore it also requires that we have a comparable basis. But the concern for a treatment of the highest quality must be what matters here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225162041	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225162044	Yes, but moving the diagnosis does not mean that we cannot offer proper treatment in Denmark. And since there is now a minority group that feels stigmatized because of the location of this diagnostic code, shouldn't one take it seriously and say: No, now we have waited long enough for this international work; nothing is happening and it has been moved year by year? We can then hope that something will happen in 2018, but there are rumours that it will not happen either in 2018, from people in those negotiations. So should we not take the voice of the minority group seriously and say: then we do something about it so that we do not stigmatise a group in the way we do it today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225162125	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225162126	If it was so simple that we could just do it tomorrow, as I know no one else has done, and it didn't matter in relation to the people it's all about, then I totally agreed. However, when the guidance we receive and this is also clear from the rapporteur's note in relation to the Danish health authorities, then there are other considerations which relate to the treatment we receive, so that we should not set it aside in relation to the quality of the treatment, then I also think that this is a strong argument which we cannot just sweep aside. However, I have said that it is absolutely crucial to me too that we clearly demonstrate from the Danish side that this is of great importance to us. That is why we have to work hard on the WHO track, and that is why we also have to do something from the national side. After all, I am inviting you to continue discussions with the rapporteurs on this and the longer we can get, the better. But we must ensure that the various considerations can be taken into account so that we do not jeopardise the quality and safety of treatment. That is what must be the decisive consideration in the end, precisely on behalf of the group that the rapporteur himself also refers to. I think we agree on the objective, and I am very concerned that we will find solutions that will hopefully bring us there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225162255	We will take another brief comment, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225162301	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Minister. I can assure you that we, the Social Democrats, will follow the further process of close cooperation in order to achieve as much as possible without sacrificing the WHO classification system. It is a duty for us here in Parliament. I would like to ask the Minister a question. This concerns the fact that in his speech the Minister says that in their new guidance the Danish Health Service has stated that transsexualism is not a disease. Can the Minister not confirm that we are here in Parliament as far back as May 2013, i.e. In a report in a debate on the same subject, did all parties say that transgender is not a medical or psychiatric disorder and that, at the same time, we said that we could, in fact, politically well understand that the transgender could feel violated by the position it has in our current classification system? I ask because I think it is essential to clarify that it was clarified here by a very broad majority before the Health Authority provided their new guidance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225162414	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225162416	The Minister can fully confirm this. And if the Minister's memory is otherwise correct, I think I myself, as rapporteur, helped to make that report. So I would very much like to confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225162428	We thank the Minister for Health and the elderly. We shall now proceed to the rapporteurs, and that is Mr Beazley. Flemming Møller Mortensen of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225162445	Thank you very much, President. This subject is actually one of the topics that can get my emphasis on a high rent. It is incredibly important for the Socialists to focus on the rights of transpersonals, on the rights of minorities in our democracy. When we had a Social Democratic government, it was clear from the government base that we focused on the rights and challenges of transpersonals in Danish society. Therefore, the day when we obtained a majority in favour of introducing legal gender change in this country was a really, really important day. It was a long, long sought after wish and not enough with it, it was actually something that aroused reverberation not only in our country and in our continent, but throughout the world. I have expressed here from the platform in these contexts on several occasions something that is very important for us Socialists, and it is that the depth of democracy is known by the way in which minorities are treated; what rights are offered to minorities and what opportunities and forces are put in place to safeguard minority rights. Therefore, it is important to constantly listen to where minorities feel violated or challenged in our society. The Health Service classification system, as the Minister has said, is based on the WHO system, which provides room for improvement. There is a challenge, just as the motion for a resolution shows today, to the fact that there is a choice of words and a position which may be offensive and which is offensive, and we had an understanding of that. It is not reasonable to place the codes of transsexualism under personality disorders in the psychiatric section. That is why it was an important, important report that we made the broad majority announce at the time, and the trans-environment in Denmark knows that it is the position here in the Folketing and that it is broadly anchored. I do not think that there is a single party that does not think that is the way it is. We have a challenge. We have a challenge because our classification system is necessary in our healthcare to ensure that things are noted and that they are done in a system so that we can constantly improve quality. I have great impatience in this area, but I also have respect for the fact that we have to be bound up with international systems. And in this context, it is so important to make it clear that when it comes to the rights of minorities, it is essential that the WHO, UN organisations and other international organisations and authorities clarify these things here, because in doing so we are helping to bring rights throughout the world and not just in a well-functioning rights democracy like the Danish one. I am pleased that the WHO is clarifying and the most recent voices say that there is really reason to believe that in 2018 we will have the opportunity for total adjustments in this area, which does not give violations and stigmatisation to the transgroupings. I want us to take the lead. That is why I also called for a closed consultation on Tuesday to have a debate without prejudice in this area and to try to get the parties here in the Folketing to come closer to a solution in this area. And, as I said to the Minister just now, we will not be calm in the social democracy until we have searched all the possibilities to change the chapter position in relation to what is our options. It should not be a question of letting go of the framework that is in relation to the WHO. But it must be tested, and that is why the Minister can be absolutely sure that we will come to all the discussions, and we would also like to take the lead, as with the closed consultation on Tuesday, in reaching solutions. I think it will be obvious and I hope that it will still be an opportunity to do a re-location in relation to our classification system. I think it is quite right that we are working towards a note which clarifies the political position, just as it has been clarified here from the platform many times back in 2013 and here too. That must be my hope, and I hope that all the parties of the Folketing will be able to gather all their strength in this matter. However, as has already been said by one of the authors of the motion for a resolution, there are some problems in the motion for a resolution as it has been tabled because it is intended that we should remove the codes. We do not think so from the Socialist side, and that is why I hope that further work will enable us to clarify and find political solutions so that we can meet the challenge that has been acknowledged.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225163033	There are two brief comments. First, Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225163037	Thank you. I would like to hear how I understand the speech of the Socialist rapporteur in relation to the clarification made by Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier before. If what we want with the proposal is for Denmark to take a decision not to remove, but to move the relevant diagnostic codes to another location in the Danish classification system, what is the position of the Socialists? In fact, I think it is a little difficult to understand, because at the same time the rapporteur talks about the fact that it is very, very important for the rapporteur not to conflict with the WHO framework. So how are we supposed to understand this? Are the Social Democrats prepared to make a decision to move the relevant codes to another chapter, even if it has not yet been done in a WHO context, or are they not?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225163132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225163134	Thank you very much for the question. I would like to clarify this. I think that insofar as it is possible to make a move to a new chapter, we should do so. What I hope is an opportunity is to look at the code that we have today because it is the one we are bound to internationally, it is the one that allows you to exchange across national borders and if it is possible to move that code to a new chapter, then we must do so. If it turns out that that option does not exist, then I think we should have patience and wait until 2018. But then, I think, we should do what I know Sweden did and which came out in the closed consultation on Tuesday, namely that we are making a note against the coding that is in the classification system today, where we are preciseing the political position that we do not consider this to be a disease. I believe that in the work of the committee we must work on both and take the discussions with the Minister for Health that we can all have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225163243	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225163244	Well, that's possible, because we're the ones who decide what we want. It's as simple as that. If we in the Folketing decide that we believe that the relevant diagnostic codes should be moved, then we can do so. It's as simple as that. In my view, it is not enough to keep the same code, i.e. F64, as it is called. Because that is precisely the number and letter that signal that we are talking about psychiatry and that we are talking about personality disorder. And then, in my opinion, we have not solved anything. Will the Social Democrats be involved in a move to a chapter, so this gets a different code, for example. one of the Z-codes that we have in chapter 11 just to become really technical? Because that's how we can solve the problems in accordance with the wishes of the Danish LBGT environment to address this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225163338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225163339	I am not so sure that Mrs Stine Brix is quite right that it is so simple. But here I think we should have the Health Data Protection Agency sit with the committee so that it becomes clear what options we have. And I believe, as I also signaled at the conciliation meeting on Tuesday, that we should have LGBT Denmark close to us, and if they say that they have understood the political signal and if it is not possible to have a new code created, then it must be possible to move the existing code to a new chapter with a new heading. It's just a matter of what maneuvering options we have. I think we should look at all the options.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225163432	The next brief remark is from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225163433	Thank you. I will start by saying that I received an email from the Chairman of LGBT Denmark yesterday, who told me: We want to have the code removed from Chapter 5. So it is actually very clear what LGBT Denmark wants. Chapter 5 is the chapter on mental disorders. But I must admit that I am also confused at a higher level in relation to what the Socialist rapporteur really wants. Of course, we can decide how we legislate in Denmark. We decide Denmark's legislation. It may well be that we are following an international classification system, but to the extent that we consider it to be offensive and discriminatory, we can take a step that means that we stand elsewhere. The rapporteur said to me yesterday: it is not just the same with the WHO, because 193 Member States have to agree when making changes to the ICD-10. So I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he considers it realistic that the amendments proposed by the World Health Organisation will come into force in 2018 and, if so, from where does he have that information?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225163548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225163549	Thank you. First of all, I do not think that Mrs Magdalene Maier has read the note which was handed over at the closed session on Tuesday. It says that a telephone contact with the WHO has partly indicated that it will be moved to something that is not stigmatising in relation to the chapter heading, and it also says that the best prediction is that 2018 is the year when it will be finished. I am a very positive thinking and believing being, and therefore I believe that it is right. However, it is important for me, as a Socialist, to make it clear that the WHO classification system is essential for the detigmatisation of this area worldwide. That is why we must not close our eyes to how important it is that the WHO speaks and that work is being done on this issue. And as I see it, and as I have heard the Ministry tell it in the closed consultation, there is a positive development here, and it is true that I want to see if we follow WHO classifications, we have to move these diagnostic codes to a new and second chapter. That's my goal. Therefore, it is now important in the process to find out whether this is possible, while at the same time not overburdening, that we do what we must, of course, in relation to the WHO. So it is important for me to find out what we have the opportunity to do at national level.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225163731	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225163732	But it is also clear because I have actually read what has been circulated that what has been proposed by the Ministry in relation to a note does not move the classification from Chapter 5, which deals with mental disorders and behavioural disturbances. It remains in Chapter 5, which means that it is still stigmatizing, insulting and degrading. So I just ask: if we are now working for an amendment which moves the diagnosis from Chapter 5 and for example. to Chapter 21, will the Socialists be in on it if we try to do so now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225163818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225163819	I have said that we must try every opportunity to move the Danish classification now, and that is what we must stand together after today. And then it is my clear opinion that what has been signalled at the meeting on Tuesday, about what is going on in the WHO, is that it is moved under a new title that does not seem stigmatizing, and I would like to welcome that. That is because the term sex in English can be stigmatizing for transsexuals, and that is why it will not appear in the new chapter heading as it was presented on Tuesday and as is also shown in the note we have received from the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225163905	Thank you, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Jakobsen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225163915	Thank you. This is a matter which we have had up a number of times, as I said. We have also found common ground in an alert stating that we will all press for the WHO to change its diagnostic codes. That is why I and the Danish People's Party were also pleased to receive the announcement that the WHO has now moved forward and last week made the proposal that we have heard of several times. I hope that this is something that can reassure those affected and that they have found the right place for those people who want to be treated for their challenge. They get the space with others, we should call them non-diagnosis such as pregnancy or, for example, pregnancy. Freckles. And I also think that we could ask our officials to go to the negotiations with the other countries to change the term 'diagnostic codes' to something else. It could, for example. be conditions instead of using the word diagnosis. Already there we are moving a significant step forward. It may be difficult to agree with the other 200 countries, but one thing is certain: if we do not say anything, it will never change. We look forward to further treatment in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225164050	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen. A brief comment has just been made. Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225164058	I just have to understand the rapporteur correctly. In other words, will the rapporteur wait for the WHO ICD-11?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225164110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225164111	Yeah, that's correct. After all, there are some people in the situation that they want treatment for their condition. And that's why we want to make sure that they don't fall between two chairs and have to experience problems. This is particularly true of this population, which is, of course, characterised by the fact that many people are being treated abroad. It is important that no problems arise for them, in case we simply change the diagnostic codes at home without waiting for the WHO.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225164143	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225164144	There is nothing in the way of treatment if we move them into a new chapter. You can be treated. I would like to emphasise this point. What is happening today is that when you get a referral from your doctor, you have to go through a psychiatric investigation, among other things. Because you have a psychiatric code in the system. Some of the questions raised in the course of the investigation have been left on a piece of paper here. One is, do you think about your parents when you masturbate? These are the sort of questions that transsexuals are asked when they are going to study. Does the rapporteur think it is worthy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225164225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225164226	It sounds like a relatively irrelevant issue in relation to the diagnosis, but I shall not invoke the title as a psychiatrist, and I shall not be able to know what is behind it. I hope there's a good explanation, I'll say. But that sounds like a weird question. I'll give you that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225164246	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225164255	Thank you for the floor. The proposal, which we are dealing with today, is an old acquaintance, one is tempted to say, because we in the Parliamentary Assembly have dealt with resolutions on exactly the same thing as the Enhedslisten and the Alternative here propose, namely to require the government to remove transsexualism from the health classification system, so that it is no longer categorised as a diagnosis, and so that, for example, we can say that it is not possible to do so. transsexuality is not perceived as a disease or disorder. The alternative and Enhedslisten also propose that the authorities should work actively to remove F64 and F65.1 from the WHO disease classification. The core is that the WHO has classified transsexualism into a category of mental disorders or personality disorders, which is highly stigmatizing. We fully share this point of view in the Left, as I have already said on previous occasions. I would like to repeat that here. Let me say straight away that we in the Left share the view that transsexualism must be moved to a non-stigmatizing category. That is the clear objective. People are different. We have different preferences in terms of way of life, style of clothing, form of expression, whom we love, yes, in general how life is to be lived. This is very much linked to personal freedom and the right to live as you wish. Neither gender nor sexual orientation must form the basis for stigmatisation, and for us in the Left, one way of life is as good as the other. With the clear starting point, we can also basically support in the Left that transsexuality as a mental diagnosis is removed from the lists of the Danish healthcare classification system, and we have great sympathy for the Alternative and Enhedslisten's proposals. Earlier this week, in a closed consultation, the Minister for Health and the Elderly once again assured us that the work is, fortunately, in full swing under the auspices of the WHO and there is still agreement to move transsexualism to a non-tigmatizing category. From the Left we see it as an opportunity to move transgenderness to the section, chapter 24, factors fluencing health status and contact with health services. But I have also taken note of the LGBT Denmark's response to the consultation and I would like to encourage that we invite LGBT Denmark to a joint discussion under the auspices of the Danish Parliament's Committee on Health and Older People's Rights. All the parties except Enhedslisten wrote back in May 2013 a joint report that we in the Left continue to support. This shows, and I quote, that the parties recognise that it may be offensive for transsexuals that transsexuality occurs in a group known as the sexual identity card. Therefore, the parties welcome the fact that a proposal from a working group to move gender identity disorders from the chapter on mental disorders and behavioural disturbances is already being considered in the WHO's Board of Directors and that an alternative non-stigmatizing category is introduced in the next version of the diagnosis classification. A single European Union supports this proposal. Today the Danish classification system follows the WHO's international diagnosis classification system, and that makes sense. In the Left, we are convinced that transsexuality should not be regarded as a mental disorder in itself, but it is not the same as the fact that in a course of treatment there can be no relationship of a sexological, psychiatric, somatic or social nature. We therefore believe that it is still necessary to have a diagnosis for transsexualism, as this is a prerequisite for treatment. On this point, I am a little unsure of what exactly the authors of the motion for a resolution have in mind when the motion for a resolution states that transsexualism will be removed from the classification system of health care so that it is no longer categorized as a diagnosis. All treatments in the Danish health care system require a diagnosis. This is also true, for example. Pregnant, who aren't sick either. As we see in the Left, a diagnosis summarises the outcome of a professional investigation so that appropriate treatment can be offered on a professionally sound basis. A diagnosis is therefore crucial for patient safety reasons, and tranned people, like all other groups in the Danish healthcare system, have high patient safety requirements. On the Left side, we have mentioned a great deal of sympathy for the motion for a resolution, and we agree that transsexuality should be deleted from the list of the Danish Health Authority and WHO classification under the heading "psychic disorders and behavioural disorders', just as we would like to see transvestitic fetishism and gender identity disorders deleted from the classification and not transferred to the new ICD-11. However, as I said, we want to await the WHO review of the diagnostic classification system, which is expected to be completed in 2018, and we do not support the proposal, but we would like to support a joint report, just as we would like to enter into dialogue with LGBT Denmark, as I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225164809	There are two who wanted to make brief comments. First, Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225164811	I understand from the rapporteur that, although we have a great deal of understanding of the wishes of transsexuals and also believe that this is a problem in relation to the rights of transsexuals, it is nevertheless more important for the rapporteur and the Left to follow the WHO's lead, one can say, and follow the classification system that exists there. That is why my question is how long the Left is actually prepared to wait for the WHO. As has already been mentioned in today's debate, we have at present. waited since 2012. What if it turns out that the process is being postponed again and nothing comes in 2018? So, what's the left's position? Are you prepared to take the lead, perhaps in recognition that it may take a very, very long time for the WHO to come up with what we all want, namely that transpersonals are not categorized as mentally ill?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225164906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225164907	Well, I admit it's taken a long time, and in my world it's taken too long. Now it's hard to deal with hypothetical questions when things are dragging on. Of course, I relate to what is now in place, i.e. that it is expected that it will be completed in 2018. Then I would say that what is really important to me is that we ensure that there is also patient safety, that there is also security about treatment when you are transsexual. In fact, I believe that some things are being put at risk by the fact that, what should be said, the model which I think the authors of this resolution are proposing is being pursued. However, Mrs Stine Brix may be able to clarify what you really want.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225164957	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225164958	It is no more hypothetical that it can be postponed than that it has already happened five times, and that LGBT Denmark, which, together with the international organisations in this area, of course follows the negotiations very closely, says that what they hear is that we are actually talking about postponement again. Of course, we do not know if this is going to happen, but that is why I just think it is relevant to deal with it. For that was exactly the same explanation that the Left made three years ago, the last time we discussed this proposal: let us wait for the WHO. Then it was postponed, and now we are standing here three years later, and then it has been postponed again. Are we going to stand here in three years and wait again for the WHO, or is there a limit to patience?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225165038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225165039	In fact, I think I am at least as sorry as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur here says I am. I also said in my rapporteur's speech that I actually think we should invite LGBT Denmark to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. It is quite new knowledge to me that, as the rapporteur says here, there appear to be signs in the sun, moon and stars that it will be postponed again. And I would very, very much like to learn what kind of knowledge LGBT Denmark has that I unfortunately do not have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225165109	The next brief remark is from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225165114	Thank you for that, and thank you also for your sympathy with the purpose of the resolution. When the rapporteur says that she is at least as sorry about this as Mrs Stine Brix, I would just like to ask: why does the rapporteur not just go along with it? Why does the rapporteur not agree with our proposal that we are already taking the lead in Denmark and moving the code to, for example, Denmark? the chapter that the rapporteur himself mentioned earlier? Why wait? Why don't we just do it now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225165142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225165143	As I also said, I do not think it is a good idea for us to deviate from the WHO classification system. We follow this in all respects in the Danish health service. I think that is a very good principle, and I think we should stick to that. I do not think that we should put the tranned people at a disadvantage than we put others in the Danish health service. And I actually think we'll do that if we choose to move transsexuality to another category.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225165213	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225165215	But I would like to ask the rapporteur to clarify this, because I simply do not understand what the rapporteur is talking about. As far as treatment is concerned, we still have an offer of treatment, but the category is different. How exactly is it that we place the transsexuals at a disadvantage by moving them to another chapter, for example. the relevant chapter 24?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225165241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225165242	Well, moving it to chapter 24 is what's in the new ICD-11. We fully support the fact that that possibility is there, and I expressed that too. However, if we are going alone at this stage in relation to how we classify diagnosis, then I do believe that, in relation to, for example, research and the opportunities for the tranned to go abroad and receive treatment, which is what should be said to be identical with what is in the diagnostic code, puts part of patient safety at risk, and I do not think we should do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225165319	Thank you to Mrs Jane Heitmann. The next rapporteur on the platform is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225165325	Thank you. It was in 1981 that Denmark, as one of the very first countries in the world, removed the diagnosis, as it was then, of homosexuality from the list of mental illnesses. Today, fortunately, it is quite unthinkable to regard sexual orientation as a disease here in Denmark, and although it may seem extremely late that it was only a decision taken 35 years ago, Denmark was in fact a pioneer country and among the first to make such a decision. This helped to put pressure on the WHO, which only removed the same diagnosis from their list as recently as 1990. With today's motion for a resolution, I believe that the Folketing has an opportunity to write the same story as we did in 1981. We propose that the codes that are relevant to transsexuals should be moved from the list of psychiatric disorders I agree with, you can read it in a different way, but that is actually what we mean, and you can also read it if you read the notes ■ to another chapter, which does not indicate that transgenderness is a psychiatric disorder or a personality disorder where it is actually classified today. We simply propose that consideration be given to the use of some of the existing chapters which already exist. It may be Chapter 11 on factors relevant to the state of health and contacts with the health service; it may be Chapter 12 on special functions; it may also be a third option. What is crucial for us is that we establish that a person's gender identity is no more than a person's sexual orientation is neither a mental nor a medical illness. It is a demand which has been made numerous times by LGBT Denmark and Amnesty International and has also been raised abroad by many organisations representing sexual minorities and minorities with a different gender identity. Both organizations in Denmark regard the present situation as discrimination, and in fact they also point out that it is not only a symbolic violation, but also a quite specific violation, which is reflected in, for example, the situation. a case running at the moment, with a transperson who, because of the diagnostic system we have, is refused to obtain an insurance policy, which means that the code is called F6 and thus covers a personality disorder, one will not offer an insurance policy. So we are talking about both symbolic and very specific discrimination. Our hope is, of course, that the fact that Denmark is taking the lead will also lead to changes internationally, as we saw back in 1981. This will put pressure on the WHO the next time you review your disease classification. And, as I said, this will not be the first time we have had the example of homosexuality, and there is another example that we in Denmark have done something different than the WHO's classification of diseases, in other words, has gone ahead. If you listen to today's debate, you may get the impression that, despite many good intentions to guarantee the rights of transpersonals, it is still more important for some parties that we follow the international diagnostic system. And I have to say that I simply do not understand that priority. When we are dealing with the fact that it is deeply offensive, not only symbolic, but also concrete, I believe that this weighs far, far heavier than the troubles that may come from the fact that you may call it something different in Denmark than you do in Belgium, for example, or somewhere else. Of course you can do it. As has also emerged from today's debate, there is much to suggest that we can wait a very long time for the WHO. The first time I heard that a new diagnostic system was announced was in 2012. Then it was postponed 2 years to 2014, then until 2015, then until 2017 and now until 2018. And as I have just said from my seat, what I hear from some of those who are following the negotiations very closely is that it is also a question of postponing the negotiations once again, and that is what we can do. Then we can meet here in Parliament every two or three years and then we can wait for the WHO and then we can go to another postponement and then we can wait for the WHO. So if we are to succeed, I actually think it is absolutely crucial that some countries want to take the lead. That is why I hope that the heartfelt speeches on the rights of transsexuals will also be translated into concrete action and that we will dare to take a step, and that we will dare to take a decision that we want to be the country that takes the lead and removes the codes from the psychiatric chapter of the diagnosis system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225165848	Thank you to Mrs Stine Brix. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225165856	Thank you. The proposal here has the very positive aim of not encoded in mental and behavioural disorders. And I very much agree with the quite unreasonable view that transgender people are perceived as sick or mentally ill. In addition, it also appears that more people are being subjected to unfair treatment in connection with investigation. These conditions would like to change the Liberal Alliance. There must be room for all types of people in this country. If you feel like a sex other than what you are born as, there must be the possibility that you can change this sex without being subjected to degrading psychiatric conversations. And it is not reasonable that transgendered persons are classified in Chapter 5 on mental disorders and behavioural disorders. There is therefore a need to re-evaluate both coding and guidelines for the investigation of traned persons. But the need for encoding, investigation, and diagnosis is beyond doubt. As with all other treatments, both investigation and diagnosis are required, at least as long as you want the government to pay. The Liberal Alliance supports the overall aim of the proposal, which is to change the coding so as not to categorize people as mentally ill. Unfortunately, however, there is some ambiguity in the current wording of the resolution, which states that transsexualism must be removed from the classification system. And, as we have already heard several times today, it is not possible to remove either tranned or others from the classification system if the health system is to continue to offer treatment. On the other hand, the code can be changed, and I look forward to constructive and positive committee work on which coding will be possible and appropriate and, at the same time, neither stigmatising nor discriminatory for tranners. And in that work I would suggest that we also look at the guidelines for investigation to see if they could be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225170133	Thank you to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225170143	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we believe in the freedom of people to be who you want as long as you do not violate others. We believe in diversity. This applies both to which god you believe in if you believe in someone who you fall in love with and how you see yourself and your sex. We in the Radical Left, like the Socialists, are proud to have opened up legal gender changes. Today we are discussing a proposal to remove transsexualism from the list of mental illnesses. I fully agree that being transsexual is not a mental illness. Fortunately, we agree on that here in the Danish Parliament. In return, we discuss how to get there. Because, on the one hand, someone is arguing that just because transsexuals stand where they do in the system, it does not mean that transsexuals are mentally ill and that classification is an opportunity to create coherence internationally. On the other hand, transsexuals feel offended by it, even though we have tried to say so. This leads to discrimination and practical problems which are totally unacceptable. As a starting point, I am concerned about going my own way in Denmark. It is my basic view that, from the outset, it is always right to follow international criteria so that we can also learn from each other across countries. Conversely, I also find that the promised change in the WHO categories has been postponed and postponed and postponed. I would therefore like to use this debate to ask the Minister for Health how this has been dealt with in France and possibly also in Malta. I have asked the Minister in the past and received the reply that the Minister does not believe that transsexuals have been moved out of the chapter on mental illness in France, and the Minister said so again here today. On the other hand, Amnesty highlights France as one of the pioneer countries that they would like us to copy. That is why I would like to learn a little more about the French model to find out if it was some of the things we could work on. Because, from the outset, we in the Radical Left are in favour of the proposal, but we also see that the proposal has not been worked through. I think the alternative rapporteur himself said that it was a mistake that it was described as having to remove the transsexuals from the chapter, because we need an estimate of where they should stand. I therefore hope that we can find a solution to this jointly in committee and see if we can move the transsexuals into a neutral chapter, perhaps inspired by France.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225170505	There are two brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225170509	Thank you. In 2013, while the rapporteur's party was government-bearing, together we wrote a report on exactly the same subject, and I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is still standing by that report and supporting it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225170525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225170526	As I said here, the balance is, of course, that, on the one hand, we still fully agree that the best thing is for us to do it together in the WHO, but, on the other hand, we also see that it has been postponed and postponed. That is why I am going into committee work with a desire to learn more about what France has done to see if we can perhaps do something of the same. That is why I have not made myself clear in advance, because I do not know enough about the French model and I have just received two different answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225170600	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225170602	I understand from the rapporteur that the rapporteur is on the way to backing out of the uniqueness of the report.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225170611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225170611-2	In fact, I cannot get any closer now because it depends on what we can find out about what France has done. Because right now it is a little difficult when France is on the one hand highlighted as a model that Amnesty would like us to copy, but on the other hand the Minister says that France has not moved the transsexuals. We need to learn more about this in order to find out if we can go that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225170637	The next brief remark is from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225170641	Yeah, thanks for that. I should just like to ask the rapporteur very briefly. As I hear the rapporteur, the rapporteur says that if other countries have taken the lead, for example. France I am also in doubt about France, I must be honest to say, because I also have some links and some websites where it says that France has and I have also heard that Malta has actually done so. So is the rapporteur to be understood as saying that if there are other countries that have taken that step, then the rapporteur is also ready for us to do so in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225170711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225170712	My wish is that we can find a common solution to this in committee. And it is clear that if we can be inspired by a country like France, it will be easier for us in Denmark to do so. That is why I hope that we in the committee will try to see if that is not possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225170729	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225170732	Would it be possible, in a given situation where it was not the case that other countries had done so, to imagine that Radicals would agree that Denmark would then be the country that took the first step?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225170740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225170741	We would like to take part in this discussion, but I think a logical starting point is that we are looking at what France has done and seeing if that is one of the things we can continue to work on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225170753	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225170807	The SF's health rapporteur could not be here today, so I am taking this resolution, but it should of course not prevent anyone from asking questions. In the SF we support the removal of transsexualism from the health classification system, so transsexuality is no longer perceived as a mental illness. We are also aware of the challenges that would result from removing transsexualism completely from the health classification system, which is not the intention, and we have already discussed this in this Chamber today. We have been waiting since 2012 for the WHO review of the classification system, and it seems that we have to wait at least a few more years. That is why it is high time that we went ahead with a change ourselves, because we do not believe that anyone should be categorized as sick on the basis of their identity. But in contrast to, for example, homosexuality, which is why it is very important that the conditions for treatment should not become unclear and that the possibility of treatment should not be weakened. But let me be crystal clear: transsexuality does not belong on a diagnostic list of mental and behavioural disorders, and that is why we support the resolution in order to remove it from that list. But we want to incorporate some of the amendments that have been tabled, especially from LGBT Denmark, to change the classification so that it gets a new diagnostic code that cannot be perceived as a disease, a disorder or a sexual condition. The last time we discussed this, the SF backed up to wait for the WHO. But our patience has run out. Denmark has been in the past a few years since it was a pioneering country in a large number of areas. There are some who need to take the lead in this move, and the SF therefore supports a revised version of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225171011	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Then it is the rapporteur for the motion for a resolution, and that is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225171030	Thank you, President. Thank you for the floor and thank you for all the comments in this Chamber this afternoon. The treatment of transsexuals and the dignity of transsexuals has been debated several times in this Chamber. In 2010, transpersonal rights and a whole catalogue of good ideas were turned upside down and, as we have heard several times in the debate, in 2013 there was a resolution from the Enhedslisten similar to what we are discussing today. And in 2015, legal gender change was actually adopted here in the Parliamentary Chamber. However, although there has been a lot of debate on this, and even though several parties have indicated that they do not consider transpersonal people to be mentally ill and that is only what we have heard today, yes, so it has been small in terms of action. Thus, when it comes to the classification of transversals, it remains the case that they are classified in the aforementioned chapter 5, Mental and behavioural disorderers, in the ICD-10, and we think this is unworthy. We think it is outdated and unfair to those who have made a choice that they want to change sex. Wanting to change sex is a personal decision that has nothing to do with one's mental state. That is why we have tabled this motion for a resolution on the 'Enhedslisten' and the 'Alternative' in order to remove transpersonalities from Chapter 5 and move them, and yes, this is an addition to the original wording of the motion for a resolution. Because we'd like them to move into a chapter that doesn't indicate a mental illness. There has been talk of the chapter "Factors fluencing health status and contact with health services," which we also think is a good idea, but that decision must of course be taken in cooperation with the actors from the trans-environment. It has now been reported for several years that the WHO is reviewing the placement of transsexuality in this new version of ICD, i.e. ICD-11, and in fact over the last four years it has been the primary reason for not doing anything about this problem. But here we just have to note that this review should have been carried out in 2012, and as we have heard several times, it has been postponed until 2014, so until 2015, then until 2017, and now it has been postponed until 2018. The fact that it is so clear that the matter is being dragged on is, of course, very clear that we have to do something ourselves if we really want to make a difference in this area and if we are serious about it, and that is what we are doing in the Enhedslisten and in the Alternative. Of course, we fully agree that the individual should be offered clarification and guidance in connection with a possible change in sex, but requiring a person to undergo a degrading psychiatric investigation, which is to be done today, is simply not worthy of a country that prides itself on freeness and freedom. I have read from one of the questions you are asked, and I have several here. However, the members of the Folketing had to read some of the questions that transpersonals are asked when they are through an investigation process. Because it is simply so insulting and I do not think we can be familiar with it. I have mentioned the example of the question where one has to answer whether one thinks of one's parents when one masturbates, and just that is simply, excuse me, as far out in the woods as it can possibly be. The fact that we are dealing with good and upright and ordinary people I was saying this way, I am quite simply incomprehensible, and when I read some of the debates that have taken place in connection with the previous motions for resolutions on this in Parliament, I am even more incomprehensible that nothing has happened in this area. Why hasn't anything happened? For example: Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl in 2013 on behalf of both the Danish People's Party and the Conservatives, that transgenderness is not a mental illness. At the same time, Mrs Jane Heitmann of the Left said that she did not wish to contribute to maintaining stigmatisations of certain minority groups on the sole grounds of sex or sexual orientation. In the same debate Camilla Hersom of the Radicals said that it is offensive for transsexuals to be perceived as someone with behavioural disturbances, also because the language basically legitimizes that others can perceive them as such. That is what we have heard today, and it is also the opinions and opinions expressed in this Chamber today, and we fully agree with all the quotations. That is why I am very surprised that there is no support from a majority in the Folketing to address that problem. And what are we waiting for? We are waiting for the WHO, some say, but as I said, the change in classification has been postponed three times before. It goes without saying that it is problematic that nothing has continued to happen. Let us now try to be realistic: a reclassification has been on the way since 2012, there are 193 members of the WHO who must agree here, and I do not think we should pretend that this is going to be easy. There are 193 countries that do not necessarily have the same view of transsexualism, of homosexuality, of the free rights of individuals, which must agree on this new classification. I do not think we should wait any longer; I think we should take the lead in Denmark. The Minister argues in this rapporteur's note, which has been sent to all the rapporteurs, that we should not change the classification in Denmark bypassing the WHO, because this and I quote it will make international health-care communication on trannised and international health-statistical cooperation more difficult. Quote out. So I'm just thinking, honestly, is international health communication and international health-statistical cooperation more important than the consideration of the rights of a minority group in Denmark? It doesn't do that for us in the Alternative and in the Enhedslisten. For the rights of minority groups in particular are often some of the things that show the true strength of a democracy. And here we are quite in line with the Social Democrats' Flemming Møller Mortensen, who in 2010 said "and he has repeated it today that it is very often at the level of the rights of minority groups that we can really measure the diversity and tolerance of a country. I agree, and I think it is a very good quote, so let us act on it. It may well be that there are some changes to the resolution that lies there, which specifies it, and that there are some technical details, but that is why we are debating it in the Chamber today, and that is a fairly easy solution. We are proposing an amendment, and it is no longer. So let us take the lead in Denmark, the other countries will follow. Let us, however, be those who take the first step. There is nothing to prevent us from having the political courage to show that in Denmark we are putting the rights of minority groups above the consideration of international standards and systems in which negotiations are held up for years. So when all the rapporteurs in this Chamber have indicated that the rights of trans-personals are high on their agenda, then it takes a schnapp with their fingers to do something concrete about it. I hope that we have the necessary political courage and sufficient respect for the transsexuals who experience stigma and abuse, both from the outside world and from the system. I hope we have the respect and the courage to do something about this area, and we actually have the opportunity. Let us seize that opportunity. I hope everyone will be a part of that. With that I would like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225171811	Thank you to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225171837	The debate is open. The first rapporteur on the platform is Mr. Erik Christensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225171907	Thank you. L 116, which we are dealing with today, is, after all, a legislative proposal which contains several elements. I guess you can divide it into four main elements and then three minor adjustments. The first main element is to strengthen the financial security of seafarers in situations where the shipping company has infringed the employment contract and where seafarers are left somewhere in the world. The second main element is to strengthen maritime safety in the context of major maritime construction projects. The third main element is to implement facilitations in the form of improved insurance opportunities for the maritime professions in connection with the towing of ships. The fourth main element is the possibility for private companies to carry out statutory surveys of diving equipment. The part of the draft law concerning the financial security of seafarers is an implementation of the latest amendments to the International Maritime Labour Convention from 2014. And unless Denmark has to reject these amendments, they must be approved by the Folketing by 18 July of this year and implemented in Danish law by 1 January 2017 at the latest. The proposal has also been presented by the ILO on the basis of recommendations from both shipowners' and seafarers' organisations. In order to ensure the financial position of seafarers, shipowners will in future have to take out insurance or provide other financial guarantees so that, in cases where seafarers are not covered by the Employees' Guarantee Fund, seafarers will be protected by the insurance or other security provided by the shipping company. The shipping company's insurance or other equivalent financial security shall be approved by the Maritime Authority. However, in the vast majority of cases, the Guarantee Fund for Employees covers cases where the guarantee fund does not cover, and that is the gap that is closed with the proposal. The proposal means that in the event of a breach of the contract of employment, where they are left or have not been paid for at least 2 months, wages and other remuneration shall be guaranteed for up to 4 months. In addition, the vessel's so-called MLC certificate must state that seafarers are covered by financial security in order to make it easier to assess compliance with the rules. The second element of the bill is to strengthen the safety of major maritime construction projects. The proposal means that the developer will be given responsibility for ensuring both the planning and coordination of the safety measures necessary to ensure that the work on ships building wind farms, for example, can be safely carried out and that both health and pollution prevention are also taken into account. The proposal complements the Law on Working Conditions and amends the Law on Safety at Sea, the Law on Sea Law and the Law on the crew of ships. The Minister for Business and Growth is hereby authorised to lay down rules to ensure that the developer contributes to the safety and health of all or part of construction companies at sea. This is also the case in relation to companies that extract oil and gas, and these areas are covered elsewhere, which is why they will not be part of the forthcoming announcement. The third element of the bill is an improvement in the insurance possibilities of companies in the event of wreckage, so that the person carrying out the towing of a wreck is responsible for the costs of towing only if the person requesting the towing has not taken out the statutory removal insurance and is not able to cover the costs himself. The proposal makes it easier to take out insurance in connection with towing while also ensuring that the bill for towing does not end up with the State. The fourth element of the bill is that the Minister for Business and Growth is given the opportunity to authorize classification societies etc., which can carry out statutory surveys of diving equipment, so that in future it is not only the Maritime Authority that can carry out these statutory surveys. In addition, there are three minor adjustments. It is a simplification of the rules on the ship's officers' redundancy regime, the adjustment of corporate reporting to the International Oil Damage Compensation Fund and the adjustment of ship registration rules. Indeed, as the hearing answers show, there is general support for the bill, and the Socialists can also support this bill. And then I have promised to announce on behalf of the Radicals that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225172305	There are no brief comments. Thank you, sir. Erik Christensen. The next rapporteur on the platform is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225172317	After all, the Social Democrats' rapporteur was so kind on behalf of the whole Parliament to provide information on all the four basic prefaces contained in this current draft law, and what lies behind it and what it is that should be said to be put in the lake to stay in the a bit funny. But that does not change the fact that the four proposals which it covers are in fact for the benefit of Denmark and of the people who are employed in the maritime professions in Denmark. As has been said earlier, this draft law ensures that seafarers will have some changes compared to being sure that they will receive their salaries up to four months later in each case, for example. experience that their employer fails to comply with their contract of employment and does not pay them the appropriate salary and other remuneration. It is of course quite reasonable, in the view of the Danish People's Party, that we should change it for the better there and that we should also be in line with the international conventions which govern seafarers' working conditions. Then it is with regard to strengthening maritime safety that, in particular, the major maritime projects, the developers, the operators, will, of course, continue to have greater responsibility for ensuring the safety of those projects. Then there is the issue of facilitation and efficiency in the maritime industries, and there are these adjustments to the liability rules for the towing of ships. Perhaps this is one of the places where I need to say that we should at least have examined the criticisms made by the Danish Shipowners' Association, and compared to the fact that the Danish tug-boat companies will have to stand, if adopted, at a competitive disadvantage compared with the international competitors with whom they offer towage tasks, and it is in fact estimated that the tug-boats can look forward to an increase of about 10%. This is the first time that the Commission has been able to take a decision on this matter. I think it is important that we clarify this in the context of the work of the committee. The latter is what Mr. Erik Christensen also mentioned this, and that is, of course, with regard to the fact that private companies can now also be allowed to bid in relation to ensuring that the diving equipment used for diving tasks is also properly approved. Against this background, the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225172545	There are no brief comments. Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. The next rapporteur on the platform is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225172555	Thank you. As Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby said that we can sign for the thorough examination of the draft law by the Socialist rapporteur, so I will restrict my speech a little and not necessarily go into it in such detail, just note that the draft law implements ILO conventions on seafarers' working conditions. As has been said, therefore, we will ensure better coverage in the event of either a shipowner's bankruptcy or a seafarer's pay has not been paid for two months, and there we will then go in and make a scheme to ensure better coverage. This is something we are already known for to a large extent at home in Denmark in relation to the Employees' Guarantee Fund, so we know the principle. In some areas, the Convention goes a little further than the Employees' Guarantee Fund, and then it is an insurance scheme that needs to be drawn up so that seafarers are guaranteed proper conditions. As I said, this is something we already know at home, so it is actually a proposal that will help to improve the conditions of competition for Danish shipping companies, because it means that foreign companies too must meet some of the requirements that we have a tradition of having at home, so that it is actually a more equal competitive situation that will apply in the future. I think that is also one of the places where Blue Denmark will show that it is an industry that is able to deliver growth and jobs, and these conditions are further improved with this proposal. As I said, there is also a strengthening of maritime safety in connection with maritime construction projects. There are changes in relation to ship officers' redundancy arrangements. This is something we have already changed in the past with regard to the law on civil servants, and now we are also on the same footing in this area. One last thing I'd like to spend a little time on is that, too, as sir. Hans Kristian Skibby of the Danish People's Party said, namely the issue raised in, I think it was Fyens Stiftstidende or Fyns Amts Avis last week about what is actually a relaxation in the bill on the rules for towing and insurance relations. Compared to the rules adopted in 2012, the draft law puts forward a relaxation, but the criticism that has also come from shipping associations and from towage companies is, of course, something we need to look at. It was also the announcement I made in that article last week. The ambition is, of course, to relax the conditions, which is why we will of course take a constructive look at the further work of the Left. There should be no doubt about that. In here we are usually good at supporting Blue Denmark, maritime Denmark. It is a Danish position of strength which ensures many jobs, large currency earnings for the country. This is something we must safeguard and, in my view, this is also a proposal which underlines the importance of continuing to do so, so that we can continue to have a strong Danish position of strength for the benefit of all of us. That is why, of course, we in the Left support the bill, and I have promised to announce that the Conservative People's Party will do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225172924	There are no brief comments. Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. The next rapporteur on the platform is Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225172936	It is true that the Socialist rapporteur began by examining the legislative proposal in the first way, so I shall not be able to do so, as other rapporteurs have done, and that is only wonderful. I can also only note that the draft law contains a number of improvements in various areas that we also agree with, including that we think it is quite reasonable that there should be clarification of who is hanging on the bill if we are to have a wreck removed or towed something in one way or another, and that is what is happening. The towster company has to make sure that whoever orders a debris removal, a towback, what do I know, it will, for example. typically be a ship that has gone on land • actually has the money to get it done. If they don't have it, they mustn't. I guess that's what this is all about. So I guess you don't really have to get an extra calculation out of it. After all, you have to look into things and not just tow them out into thin air. However, there are a number of improvements in a number of areas. All we question is the authorisation of private classification societies for diving equipment. We're not too excited about that. So far it has been under the auspices of the Maritime Authority, and there we really think it is very good. We do not see that there are grounds for privatisation. It is, of course, our general policy not to be very enthusiastic about privatisations of this kind, which is a task of authority, so we think this is a bad idea, and we might well table an amendment on that. That does not make us ultimately vote against the bill. It contains a whole series of improvements. Especially happy, I think also from my personal history etc. It was something that was decided back in 2014, and it must be decided here in this Things by July this year and introduced into Danish law on 1 January 2017. So it's about to be at the last minute, too, but it's good enough. What we welcome in the Enhedslist is, of course, that this is also an international agreement, in other words an agreement concluded between the shipowners and the seafarers' organisations at international level, and that there is an extension of the financial security requirements. For the time being, it is true that sailors are largely covered only on their return journey, but the proposal extends it to cover all basic needs as sailors until they have actually come home, if they have been aft-sailed, if I may say so. This also applies to remuneration and remuneration 4 months back, sick pay, compensation for termination or interruption of working conditions, pensions and holiday allowances. It's all really, really good. I would just like to say that I am one of those who, throughout my life as a port worker at Esbjerg Harbour, have taken part in countless actions where we have been on strike and where we have docked ships because we could see that there were really underpaid sailors from all over the world on board. They were not just underpaid seamen; they were seamen who had not been paid for half-and-a-half years. At any rate, I imagine that with what is happening now, the responsible port worker, who is willing to take action to help some sailors, now has a convention and legislation to refer to and to help him. Because sometimes it was difficult to get the money out of the shipowners. But countless are also the aluminium suitcases that I have seen dragged to the ports, with hundreds of thousands of dollars in them, because that was what was owed to the sailors on board, and that was from master to youngest mass boy. So in this way, we also think this is a very good bill. It is, of course, related to the shipping industry, which for some is a purely pirate business with greedy shipowners. But it also has a connection with a weak professional organisation around. I have to say that, given that I have the opportunity to do so, I cannot fail to draw attention to the shameful DIS law which still exists, in particular Article 10 (1). 2 and 3, and in particular paragraphs 2 and 3 thereof. 2 which provides a lack of opportunity for Danish professional organisations to organize and thus also represent seafarers on board the ships. I would like to point out that the ILO has repeatedly voiced its criticism of this here, no later than 2014 in very sharp terms in a report in which they demanded that we now have to deliver, that Denmark should now reply to whether it was intended to do so by December 2014. I would like to ask the Minister for Industry if anything has happened on this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225173502	There are no brief comments. Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225173516	Thank you. I don't want to go through the bill either. This has already been done by former rapporteurs. We are relatively positive about this bill. We have the same concerns as Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby also had, in relation to these bunches and the costs they could be incurred in insurance terms. We hope that this will be addressed by the government during the committee procedure, and that is probably also a prerequisite for our support for the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225173554	There are no brief comments. Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. The next rapporteur on the platform is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225173608	It's always like this when there's this kind of bill, and you get a little in line, that it's hard to go through it all over and over again. So I will also be very brief. We are very positive about this precisely because, first and foremost, the financial security of seafarers is being strengthened, and we are very pleased about that. There are also a number of different consultation responses, which I think the consultation note also responds well to, which is why we are very positive about this bill and look forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225173637	There are no brief comments here either. Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. The next rapporteur on the platform is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225173651	This bill will implement the required amendments to the MLC Convention and it is positive that the amendments to the Convention greatly protect the rights of seafarers in relation to wages, working conditions and the economy. This whole area around shipping companies and sailors, etc. is so international, and so international rules are also needed. I also share my colleagues from Enhedslisten's enthusiasm that it is not only in Denmark, but indeed internationally a big step forward. That is why, of course, I would like to acknowledge the Danish Government for now implementing the changes that are required, but I also think that today we should pay tribute to the fact that we actually sometimes see seven-mile steps from international organisations such as the ILO and the MLC. Then there are practically nothing but positive consultation responses. I think it is a pity that the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur has left, because even in such an area as people who may not really care about it would find it a little technical, one can see that class policy is alive, because while we are some who think it is fantastic that sailors work and pay conditions, etc. and other rights are guaranteed, then there are some who are very, very concerned about where the bill for towing should end. We could have a long and exciting discussion about this if it were not because the honourable Members of the House also look as if they would like to have the day off after a long day. But we from the SF are very excited about this, and I hope that the Minister will not botanise too much in it. We think it looks excellent as it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225173859	There are no brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Then it's the business and growth minister's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225173907	Thank you to the President-in-Office for that. Thank you for the many very constructive comments on the bill here, L 116. It is quite true, as several of the rapporteurs have said here today, that there is reason to sign for not least the very detailed examination of the draft law made by the Socialist rapporteur when the rapporteur spoke. That is why I am not going to go into it in detail either, but I would like to start by saying, as several rapporteurs have said here from the platform today, that the main element is the implementation of new rules in the ILO Convention on Maritime Labour, which is also referred to as MLC. The new rules strengthen the financial security of seafarers when the shipping company fails to meet its obligations to seafarers, in particular when the shipping company does not pay seafarers' wages. After all, when international rules are found to be necessary, this is due to the fact that seafarers are often in a more vulnerable situation when they are far away from their country of origin, and by international rules we also ensure proper conditions for seafarers and equal conditions of competition for shipping companies. This is also one of the things that several rapporteurs have said, namely that it is essential to have such a globalised profession that we work for common international solutions. Guaranteeing wage claims is well known in Denmark, which is why we have also had the Employees' Guarantee Fund for many years. This system broadly meets the new requirements of the ILO Convention, but international organisations of seafarers and shipping companies have come up with a solution that gives a little better coverage than the one we know here in Denmark. This is particularly true when shipping companies have not been declared bankrupt but have stopped paying wages. Like other maritime countries, we have accepted this. The draft law means that financial security will continue to be achieved primarily through the existing system of the Employees' Guarantee Fund, which will continue to apply. In situations where the coverage of the fund is not sufficient to meet the requirements of the new conventions, seafarers receive protection through the insurance or other security of the shipping company. The draft law also aims, as several have said, to strengthen maritime safety in the context of major maritime construction projects. This is done by helping builders to maintain the safety of ships used for construction projects at sea. Similar schemes are well known in construction projects on land, where the developer must coordinate the measures taken by contractors to promote the safety and health of workers. Let me now mention a third element. It is, of course, that the Folketing adopted new rules on debris at the end of 2012 which improve the ability of the state and the municipalities to cover the costs of removal of wrecks. A problem has subsequently arisen when the wreck to be removed is a ship or object lost during towing. The legislation did not fit in with the usual contract provisions in the towage industry, and that is what the draft law must remedy. The draft law therefore means that we follow the practice more closely in the industry. This means that the person who orders a tow will be responsible for the costs of the debris, etc., if the tow is lost. Billing must take out an insurance cover. The tow company shall cover de-removal costs only if the principal or his insurance undertaking fails to do so. In order to ensure this, the draft law requires the towage company to take out insurance or to have other financial security for its liability. However, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned in today's debate, the Danish Shipowners' Association has among other things. Last week, together with a couple of shipping companies, this insurance obligation was criticised and stated that the insurance in question would be relatively expensive. The subsidiary liability of the towing companies gives them a strong incentive to ensure that the orderer has taken out the statutory insurance. I think that is important in many ways. However, I would also like to say here today that we will be looking at the question of whether it is also necessary for the towage companies to have independent insurance for this subsidiary liability. That is exactly what the rapporteur of both the Left and the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party have said, so we shall be looking at this in the committee procedure that is going to take place. Otherwise, I would just like to thank you for the many remarks and note that it is relatively rare that there is such broad support from all parties in the Danish Parliament for a legislative proposal in the area of the Ministry of Business and Growth. That is why we are a little worried when one of the most flaming speakers today is given by Mr Beazley. Henning Hylllested, but I don't want it coming, sir. Henning Hyllested to hurt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225174354	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225174358	No, but it's because, as I said, I've been personally deeply involved in many of those cases. I have looked into the eyes of those people, those poor people who had not been paid, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, for half and all years. It wasn't the case that they couldn't get food on board, because of course it was affordable, but it was the families at home who never saw a penny. Well, that's not what made me want to take the floor. That, of course, was the Minister's comment on this tow. In other words, if it is not to be an independent insurance scheme for shipping companies, what should it be?
ParlaMint-DK_20160225174440	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225174441	Well, that's exactly what I think we should discuss during committee reading. Now, of course, these relatively strong protests have been made by some smaller towage companies, as I remember, last week. And it has to be said that the comments that have come as a consultation answer are not as clear in their message as what came now. What I think is important in the issue raised is whether Danish towage companies might be put at a disadvantage than others in international competition. Whether they do so or not with the legislative proposal that has now been put forward, I think we need to be sharper in getting an analysis, and that is why I would like to enter into a dialogue with the committee on it. So I do not, if I may say so, have the final solution to it, but now it is a first reading, and so I will also mention as a minister that I have noted that this criticism of the draft law has been raised, and we will look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225174538	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225174539	Of course, one might ask whether it is not almost the usual objections when people have to pay a little. Well, it's to place who's actually gonna have to pay for this. As far as I remember the consultation answer from the insurance companies, they do not think that there is the big problem as I think I can remember it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225174600	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225174601	In general, it can be said that there are often some who think that there is a problem until there are some who think otherwise; so there are opposing trends on this issue that have now been raised. But I also think we should be relatively honest if we are forced to do so late on a Thursday, as I am doing now, and then say that I think we need to clarify this. I mean, I haven't had the opportunity to get this clarified because there was a winter holiday last week... that was there for me too... and that's why I'm gonna have the opportunity to go through this more deeply and also find out what kind of criticism is being raised and under what conditions it is. I have to say that it is not entirely clear to me how the positions stand. But I would like to say that we will have to deal with this, because I can already see that there are some committee issues that will deal with this, which I think is fair enough. And then we will have to look at whether this is an opportunity to clarify or amend the legislative proposal that has been put forward. It is not the case that I say that I am already running away from the legislative proposal that has been put forward. I'm just saying, we're going to get back to that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225174700	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225174704	Thank you. There may be many things that the Minister can consider in this regard. I would just like to ask the Minister on the floor of the Parliamentary Chair whether he can at any rate make the promise to the Danish Parliament that, if there is an amendment from the Minister's hand, it will not be the taxpayers who have to pay, or the employees that a possible amendment will not be paid in that way at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225174734	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225174735	So now I have to say that it is relatively early during a first reading we are about to discuss potential amendments from Parliament's platform. Now I think we should respect the fact that a committee is being dealt with; some have asked some questions today. And then I'll come back to how the design's supposed to be. In general, however, we can be pleased that we have a tax freeze, and I know that SF is very concerned to support under certain conditions and at certain times of the day.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225174802	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225174804	No, we just think there should be reasonableness in it. I would then interpret the Minister's reply as meaning that he will not give it a guarantee today. So, of course, I look forward with excitement to what might come.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225174813	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225174817	I will give the guarantee that I always come up with a good solution to the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225174821	There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160225174840	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 26 February 2016, at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
