ParlaMint-DK_20160819100010	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819100017	As has been informed, the Minister for Foreign Affairs cannot be present in the Chamber today, and that is why the Minister for Defence is speaking on behalf of the government. In the first place, the debate is about the proposed amendment, and there is Mr Arndt's point of view. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819100111	The Enhedslisten supports Denmark's participation in the destruction of the remains of Libya's chemical weapons. It is positive, yes, very positive, that the Danish defence can be used in this way for disarmament and destruction of weapons of mass destruction and therefore backs UN decisions. It is not a risk-free task, and that means that the Enhedslisten will also have to give a great deal of thanks and good luck to the crew that we will shortly be voting in favour of sending out. The entire crew of the two ships deserves our full honor and respect. The Enhedslisten supports the proposal and it is firm, but we have nevertheless tabled an amendment which has so far received the support of the SF. The amendment seeks to ensure that the Danish salary and working conditions for the entire civilian crew are guaranteed on board. I hope that a majority in the Folketing can support that proposal. The seamen we send are being sent to participate in a UN mission, and therefore their relationship should also be in line with the UN conventions. Unfortunately, the situation is not as it now stands. If this amendment is not adopted, we will unfortunately have a situation in which foreign seafarers will not have the right to a Danish agreement, even if they are sailing on a ship under the Danish flag. I therefore hope that a majority will support the amendment so that we ensure that when Denmark carries out missions for the UN, we also follow the ILO rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819100303	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? Sir. Nick Hækkerup, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819100318	Thank you. We agree with all the comments made by Enhedslisten at the outset about the wisdom of the resolution that we have to take and the relevance of the work that needs to be done, and I believe that the whole parliament agrees with them. What is the dividing line here is the question, as was said, of Danish pay and working conditions. The ship in question here is the civilian ship, not the military ship, but the civilian ship, which is going along to transport the remains of chemical weapons and which, as I understand it, is, at least if it corresponds entirely to what was the situation when we sailed the remains of chemical weapons and chemical weapons out of Syria, is registered in DIS and thus subject to Danish legislation. This means, perhaps not entirely caught in the rapporteur's speech, that both Danish seafarers and foreign seafarers are subject to regulations as well as to the law on seafarers' working conditions, the Danish Work Damage Act, the Danish Work Damage Insurance and the Danish Working Environment Regulations. It is quite true that Danish seamen are covered by Danish agreements, and any foreign seamen are employed in accordance with the agreements concluded between the social partners and it is in this situation that the Danish Shipowners' Association, the Shipowners' Leaders, the Maskinmestrenes Association and the Danish Metals Maritime Department are approved in what is called the DIS Contact Committee, where the terms of pay and employment are approved. So it's not like it's a clone. If the Social Democrats cannot support this amendment, there are two reasons for it. One is that it is actually wrong. The second is that this is, in principle, wrong. This is actually wrong because the rapporteur himself mentioned that the ILO has pointed out a different approach to ending this regime, namely to initiate a tripartite dialogue with regard to the DIS law, which is, of course, exactly the way in which industrial relations is usually handled in Denmark. This happened under the previous government and led to the start of a dialogue with the LO, with the Danish Metal Maritime Department, with the 3F and the Danish Shipowners' Association, and as I understand it, a reply has been given very recently by the DIS Contact Committee. The point here is, of course, that any changes should be made not by the Folketing and our interference in and determination of wage conditions, but in dialogue with the social partners. This is, in principle, wrong because the Folketing must be cautious about interfering directly in wage solutions, because it is contrary to the Danish model. If you accept this, you also accept in principle that it is legitimate to do the same in other situations too, when, as in this case, it would not be a matter of promise, but a matter of deterioration. Finally, of course, what would the consequence be if we did not have the DIS legislation, the DIS regulation that we currently have? I just think it should be borne in mind that the DIS regulation was made in a situation where Danish ships were on the way to being flagged out on a large scale and that, in this way, the regulation was made to ensure, not least, that Danish seamen were still employed. At the moment there are well within the vicinity of 7,000-8,000 employed Danish seamen, and as far as I know that figure has been fairly constant over the last few years. It does not take so much imagination to imagine what the consequence would be if we had not had that regulation. Then the ships were flagged out, which means that there had been no or very few Danish sailors, and then one must imagine that the Danish sailors who had been had been in a situation where they had sailed on ferries like the Sejerøfærgen or something like that, but hardly on the large international ships on which they are currently sailing. So, for those reasons, the Social Democrats cannot support the amendment before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819100738	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819100745	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I am shocked at the fact that a Socialist is standing on the platform and saying that it is in principle wrong if the Folketing removes an unreasonable provision in the specific situation and ensures that the transport we are talking about takes place under normal Danish pay and employment conditions. I would therefore ask the rapporteur to elaborate on this point in principle. Is it also, in principle, wrong for the previous government to issue a clear circular to the municipalities and public authorities of the country with a clear recommendation to apply the ILO rules when contracting out or purchasing tasks from private companies? Was it also in principle wrong for the previous government to tighten up the application of the ILO Convention when it comes to state and state enterprises? Could I have an explanation for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160819100842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819100845	It may be the oldest trick in the book to say that I have said something that I haven't said. What I said was that it was in principle wrong because the Folketing must be very careful in dictating pay solutions. That's what I said... that the Folketing should be careful with, to the best of my knowledge. I think it is very good that we have a system in Denmark where it is the social partners who fundamentally regulate the conditions of the labour market. I simply believe that this helps to ensure that we have such a well-functioning labour market as we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819100913	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819100918	Seems like a bit of a field trip. If the rapporteur wanted to read the Enhedslisten's amendments, he can see that there is no mention of a pay solution adopted by the Danish Parliament. It simply says that we must ensure in relation to legislation that I actually thought the Socialists were critical of, and where the government, the state, is asking for a task to be carried out that task to be carried out on normal pay and working conditions, just as we are doing with ILO Convention 94 in the state and state companies that are not in competition, just as we are calling for in relation to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819100956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819100958	But the point is that the Enhedslisten with the amendment dictates a pay solution. I think that some of that and it may be that Mr. Finn Sørensen did not hear what I was emphasising to say was that, in order to deal with the problem, it is relevant to start it up in a different approach, namely to let the social partners talk about it than Enhedslisten's proposal to sit down and make the solution here at Christiansborg. The ILO has also pointed this out. I can see that, sir. Finn Sørensen is shaking his head. I take this as an acknowledgement that the dialogue has been there, i.e. that the LO, the Danish Metal Maritime Department, 3F and the Danish Shipowners' Association have been through that dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819101036	Thank you. There is a further brief comment, and it is from Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819101042	As I hear the rapporteur, I hear that it is actually the same arguments that mean that the alternative does not vote in favour of the amendment. I just need to clarify this so that I am sure of the history, because I actually think that the debate raised here by the Enhedslisten is very interesting and we had difficulty in assessing whether we should go in and demand that something be changed now and here. But we think that, in the situation in which we cannot change anything about the existing mission without neglecting some very different and perhaps in our eyes more important conditions, the mission that we need to go out and solve the problem would be to ask the question: can we take this debate again, that is to say, in the appropriate forums? That is actually what I hear the rapporteur say, namely that the negotiations that have taken place have not yet been concluded politically. It's something you can take up and look at again. Should it be brought forward and addressed in the tripartite negotiations by the social partners, or where should it end? But it is probably a politically legitimate idea on the part of the Enhedslisten that we should continue to talk about this; it may just not be the right place to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819101134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819101135	That is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819101141	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819101144	Thank you. What I'd like to hear, sir. Nick Hækkerup, on the other hand, is whether the Socialists recognise that we are dealing with a rather special situation here. So, we are dealing with a situation in which we send a Danish contribution to a UN effort, which is very positive, and then have a situation in which the UN has criticised Denmark for failing to comply with the UN Convention when denying foreign workers on Danish ships flying the Danish flag, Danish agreement. It is quite true that the UN's criticism was that this fundamental problem should be resolved in a trialogue, but we have the opportunity today to send a signal from the Danish Parliament that we actually think that Denmark should comply with the UN Labour Conventions, the ILO Conventions, in this area, and then demand that when we work for the UN, as we do in this case, there should be compliance with precisely those conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819101254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819101257	The heart of it, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen says, is the recognition that this must be resolved in the tripartite negotiations; that is what is at the heart of it. The fundamental criticism of the entire Social Democratic Party is that we in the Danish Parliament will dictate the solution which I do not think stimulates it, that we will have the most optimal future relations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819101321	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819101325	Thank you. But we have the opportunity today. Today we have the opportunity to send out a clear signal that foreign seafarers should have the right to a Danish agreement. There must be Danish agreement on Danish ships. The decision to send that signal is, of course, completely free for us to take here in the Folketing. I think it is a pity that the Socialists do not support it, but I would like to hear from Mr Seligman. Nick Hækkerup, if the Social Democrats would like to send a call to the Secretary of Defense to sort this out. Now is the third time we have a Danish mission that supports the UN but does not follow UN conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819101402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819101405	The Folketing can always do that if you want to. What I am just saying is that it is precisely here that we have to tread carefully, because if we do so in concrete terms, there must necessarily be a rational follow-up to it, that we accept it in principle as a sensible solution, that the Folketing intervenes specifically in such matters, and if we accept it in principle, we will have to accept it if others do, and that is legitimate. I am just saying that I think we should tread cautiously here because we have the social partners to regulate what conditions in the labour market should be, and this is actually a model that has proved to be very good for our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819101447	Thank you to the rapporteur. No more rapporteurs have asked to speak, but we have a privateist, Mr President. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819101505	Thank you. It's really sad that this is going to fill so much in a debate where the whole Danish Parliament and also Enhedslisten agree that we have to make this effort. We are quite happy that there is a unanimous view on this. But it is clear that when you hear some arguments that are, excuse me, right in the woods, in relation to what I actually thought the Socialists stood for, you have to ask questions about it. What I was overstepping over and over which we are steeped is that the rapporteur stands and says that it is in principle wrong for the Folketing to take the step in this specific transport to ensure that the work is carried out under normal Danish pay and employment conditions. That's what I was reacting to. That's it, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen has responded. That is what I think all ordinary employees will respond to when they hear that it is in principle wrong. After all, this is not about the Folketing adopting a wage solution. That is, of course, a distortion of what the amendment is about. It is simply that in this particular case Denmark is living up to something that the whole parliament agrees in principle on, namely that ILO Convention No. 94 is a very good convention, which we have also implemented in Denmark. We have ratified it. It has been implemented most recently by an excellent circular of, I think, it was just about 30 June 2014 by the former Minister for Employment, whom I have referred to in a brief remark. This is something I thought we were in complete agreement on in the Folketing. I know that there are some employers and some bourgeois parties who are not happy that this is happening in the municipalities and such things. However, we have agreed with the Socialists to make a good effort to improve the implementation of ILO Convention No. This is one of the things we are pleased about in relation to the government and the cooperation and now we are told that it is in principle wrong because it is interfering in making a concrete solution. That was just what I wanted to clarify. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819101719	There is a brief comment on that by Mr Seligman. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819101725	All I have to do is pray, sir. Finn Sørensen to confirm that if the amendment falls, what is indicated, the seamen concerned will sail under wage and working conditions similar to that which is usual for the maritime area in Denmark and which has been agreed between the social partners in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819101744	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819101749	They will do so to the extent that they are Danish seamen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819101753	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819101758	No, I have to say that outside of the discussion we have here about the specific mission, a number of special conditions have been agreed with the clear aim of ensuring that ships are not reflagged, and with great success, which makes us a great maritime nation, and there is great satisfaction with that, my impression is that we are, both with employees and with employers. Therefore, the conditions under which the seamen sail are the usual conditions, as it would have been if they sailed with any other cargo. Therefore, if the amendment is adopted, it will be different from those normally applied in the maritime area to people sailing on Danish ships.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819101828	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819101832	There is absolutely no agreement on the DIS law, as Mr. Morten Østergaard stands and defends, which is the problem itself, and which makes it possible that Danish agreements do not apply to Danish ships. And that is just what we want to make sure in this specific case, that is, that there is what it should be and on which the Folketing and the previous government actually agreed in principle, just not when it comes to shipping. Well, then I guess sir. Morten Østergaard is well aware that there is widespread dissatisfaction in the trade union movement with the DIS law, and I am well aware of this in much of the Social Democratic Party. So I think it was a good opportunity to clarify what the principles are here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819101915	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819101919	Thank you. I am interfering because now the Enhedslisten makes it sound like - and that is why I think that, as Mr. Morten Østergaard asks, is right - the foreign sailors are not actually regulated in relation to the same right as there is in the Danish Work Damage Act, Danish Work Damage Insurance, rules on the working environment, including full-time rules. So the rapporteur cannot confirm again: yes, the foreign sailors are under the same good rules as the Danish, and yes, it is an advantage for the foreign sailors that there are those rules? Isn't that just confirming it with a sounding yes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160819102004	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819102006	That's not what I was talking about, sir. rapporteur. I was talking about terms and conditions of employment. It's not that complicated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819102015	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819102017	It may well be, but that's what I'm asking, and can't I get an answer to that? Is it a sounding yes to the foreign sailors being covered by these rules, some good rules that also Danish sailors are, and that they probably wouldn't have been if that ship sailed from another country? We have to have an answer to that, and then I don't care what Mr. Finn Sørensen wants to talk about it. But I think people out there can demand an answer from Enhedslisten on this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819102045	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819102046	Well, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen is well aware of the answer. That, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen mentions that is a fact, but that is just not what I am talking about. I am talking about terms and conditions of employment and ILO Convention 94, which live up to the general principles that everyone in this House otherwise praises, namely that when the government is to hire for tasks, the state at least, it must be done on normal Danish terms and conditions of employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819102112	Thanks to Finn Sørensen. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819102124	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (SF) and can be voted on. A wrong vote has been set in motion, so we are going to roll back the clock. One must be able to do so here in the Danish Parliament. It's not that easy to change. We're gonna try it once again, but wait till we're absolutely sure that it's the right thing and that we're doing the right thing. Let's try it again. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (SF). So we are voting on the amendment. I note that in relation to Amendment No. 1 there are 13 votes in favour, 88 votes against. The amendment has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819102513	The negotiations then deal with the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal? There is no such thing, and so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160819102535	The final adoption of the proposal is now being voted on. The vote is over. In favour, 99 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The draft parliamentary resolution has been unanimously adopted [and will be sent to the Minister for Foreign Affairs].
ParlaMint-DK_20160819102612	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 6 September 2016, at 3 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
