ParlaMint-DK_20160223130018	The meeting is open. I should like to point out that the point that has been made as No. 11 on the agenda, Question No 11 on the agenda, F 15, at the request of the Minister for Culture, is the date of today's meeting. Today there are the following reviews: Tax Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill no. L 123 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Income Tax for Public Companies, Share Profit Tax Act, Corporate Tax Act and various other laws and repealing the Investment Fund Act). Jonas Dahl (SF) and Trine Torp (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 67 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of an independent institution to ensure research into and disseminate knowledge on alternative treatment and natural medicine). Martin Henriksen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 68 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the illegal receipt of financial resources from foreign powers or from persons and organizations associated with terrorist movements to religious and cultural buildings). Carsten Bach (LA) and Mette Bock (LA): Motion for a resolution No. B 69 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on better possibilities for the maintenance of watercourses and the adaptation of watercourses). Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 70 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the withdrawal of sovereignty from the European Union). Christina Egelund (LA) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 71 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the summer cottage rule). Pernille Bendixen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 72 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on child certificates). Pernille Skipper (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 73 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the fight against paedophilia). Finn Sørensen (EL) and others: Question No. F 22 (What can the Minister say about the individual and social consequences of the introduction of the cash benefits ceiling and 225-hour rule as proposed by the government?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20160223130216	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223130234	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223130259	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) [on the other hand, 0 abstained]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223130331	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223130343	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) [on the other hand, 0 abstained]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223130408	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223130423	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) [on the other hand, 0 abstained]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223130447	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223130504	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour of 95 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), against 13 (EL and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223130531	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223130547	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour, 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, SF and KF) [against 5 (RV), abstained]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223130615	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I'm gonna need a little quiet in the room while you pack up and go out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223130659	Does anyone wish to speak from the platform? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20160223130732	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Orla Hav, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223130754	Thank you. I will say that I am standing here on behalf of Maja Panduro, who has become ill, but I shall try to get through the first reading. The draft law we are discussing today is intended to empower the Minister for the Environment and Food to lay down rules, in accordance with the Environmental Protection Act, concerning, among other things: to ensure that Denmark can comply with our directive obligations. This applies to our obligations with regard to the EU directive on waste management from the extractive industry, and the proposal brings about changes in the areas of landscape considerations and public involvement. Overall, the Social Democratic Party is in favour of the proposal. As the draft law shows, the legislation in force today does not meet the requirements of the so-called extractive waste directive, which the amendment of the law will now remedy. The applicable law does not meet the requirements laid down for landscape reasons in the Mining Waste Directive, and therefore the Minister is authorised to amend the Environmental Protection Act so that Denmark can remedy this deficiency and comply with our directive obligations. This will enable us to ensure through law that extraction companies take account of the landscape surrounding them. That is why we have no problem with extending the Minister's powers in this area, to which it should be added that there are no companies in Denmark today that are even covered by the Mining Waste Directive. Therefore, this bill can hardly be said to have the major consequences at home. Similarly, the Social Democratic Party welcomes the section on the amendment of the law on increased public involvement when a company covered by the directive applies for permission to make changes that may have environmental consequences. As stated in the draft law, it allows the public to be involved across borders. This is positive as it offers better opportunities to be involved in processes on the other side of, for example, the Danish-German border. For the time being, however, it is worth noting that the Ministry of the Environment and Food states that they have never received or been requested information in relation to applications covered by the directives discussed and which could affect Danish environmental conditions. Therefore, the relevance can be discussed. Having said that, it is, of course, important that the possibility exists, while at the same time fulfilling our obligations. Nor has the proposal given rise to the great protests in the hearings that have come, which is also the starting point for the Socialists. Agriculture & Food expresses concern in its hearing about the possibility of over-implementing EU rules, as noted by the Ministry. On the part of the Social Democrats, however, it is important to stress that we do not believe that over-existence is necessarily bad. Denmark must take the lead in certain areas and we must take responsibility. In this context, we are therefore looking forward to the forthcoming discussion of what national special rules in relation to the landscape considerations of recovery companies really cover. The draft law is also considered to have no negative environmental effects, and the changes will not affect either the public economy or the public and the business community. On the basis of the above, we support the draft law, as we believe that we should comply with our EU legal obligations. We are also looking forward to the work of the committee, in which we hope to be able to clarify exactly what is meant by the fact that the Minister cannot adopt national special rules in relation to the pursuit of landscape considerations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223131154	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223131201	Thank you. When I read the submission speech, I was thinking that I simply had to dive into the comments, because it seems to me that this is about the fact that we in Denmark have received a letter of formal notice on the Mining Waste Directive, which says that we have not implemented the rules well enough. This is done by giving an authorisation to the Minister for the Environment and Food, after which it does not apply to anyone in Denmark because we do not have this system at all. That's how I understood it. And I actually found it a little difficult to present it to my group and say that we are implementing a law that really has no effect in Denmark. But that's actually what we're about to do. That is why we can have a slightly more fundamental approach to it. There have now been some officials in the European Union spending a lot of time finding out that we have certainly not implemented it well enough, knowing that it has no effect in Denmark. That's one thing. The second point is the issue of giving authority to a minister, and I think that is in principle wrong. I've always said that, and I stand by it. We in the Danish People's Party think this is wrong. It should be the case that when you have to adopt something in Denmark, you take it in the Assembly Hall, and then it is a majority in the Folketing that adopts it • no matter how tiny a detail we sometimes think one thing can be. However, the way in which we, as Members of Parliament, can do so and which, in a democracy, influences where one can assert one's views, is thus down here in the Assembly Chamber and not by authorizing a minister to do anything. On page 5 of the comments on the economic and administrative impact on the public sector and the economic and administrative impact on business, etc. It can be read that it is estimated that there are currently no waste facilities in Denmark covered by the Mining Waste Directive and that the obligation for the Member State to consult the public already follows directly from the directives, etc. etc. And then it can be said that at least a little has been read about the Mining Waste Directive, without the fact that it has a major impact on what is happening in Denmark. So I have a few technical questions for that. And then, on behalf of the Danish People's Party at least, I have the basic approach to it that I do not think a minister should have the authority to do much more than change a writing size. This is the same approach we have when we talk about authorisations for the Commission in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223131448	Thank you. There are questions from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223131454	I understand from the rapporteur that the rapporteur considers it wrong to authorise a minister. I am very curious whether this is a position that applies throughout the week, because when we reach Thursday, there is L 68, where the Folketing has been asked to give an authorisation to a minister to set nitrogen standards. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the basic position of the rapporteur is valid throughout the week.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223131519	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223131522	Now we must remember that the agricultural package that has been negotiated is not the one that has been included in it. But, of course, it has been up in our group and we fully support the agreement that has been made. And I assume that this has also been discussed here; I certainly have no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223131538	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223131541	Well then, I understand that the basic position of the Danish People's Party rapporteur today is only valid today and not all week long.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223131548	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223131550	I can then tell you that this is a fundamental approach, after which we always make a concrete assessment in the individual cases. We do so when we sit in the Committee on European Affairs, and I do so on this matter too. However, I think it is essential to mention, when you stand here on the platform of the Folketing, that this is a fundamental approach that we make an assessment of every time we have a proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223131610	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223131621	Thank you. In connection with the examination of Bill No. L 120 amending the Law on the Protection of the Environment, the Left votes in favour of the proposal. The reason for the proposal is that over the years, the European Commission has sent some letters of formal notice in which it has been assessed that Denmark does not adequately comply with the directive on extraction waste. On 26 February 2015, the Commission sent a further letter of formal notice stating that Denmark has still not implemented the Directive correctly. In order to ensure that Denmark correctly complies with the Mining Waste Directive, the draft law must allow the Minister for the Environment and Food to lay down rules for the management of waste from the extractive industries to the extent necessary to comply with EU legal obligations. In addition, the Minister for the Environment and Food must be able to lay down rules on the involvement of the public in decisions in another Member State which could have a significant impact on the environment in Denmark. This ensures a better legal position for Danes in cross-border environmental impacts from neighbouring countries. It is important to stress that the authorisations can only be used to the extent required by Denmark's EU and international obligations, so the authorisations cannot be used to lay down national special rules. We have here a bill that does not have the great practical significance for Denmark, as there is no mining in Denmark, and no companies are covered by the bill, as it is estimated that no waste facilities in Denmark are covered by the directive. Nevertheless, with the adoption of this bill, we can put an end to several letters of formal notice from the Commission and fully comply with the directives, and with these words the Left votes in favour of the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223131813	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding. No, it's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, so I need to fix this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223131835	Thank you. You can inherit a lot of things. It seems that this bill is something that would be completely superfluous if the European Union did not exist. The mining operation in Denmark is limited, there may not be any prospect of the huge mining in Denmark, and then we will have to deal with a bill, and we will. We are, of course, in favour of a legislative proposal which does not have so much substance, but we believe that it will be essential for the committee to clarify what specific national rules may be involved. We think that is essential to uncover. So that is what the committee procedure is going to be about. Then it could also be interesting whether this case could have an impact on the conditions that may be around shale gas. We would like that to be clarified in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223131921	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223131929	In the Liberal Alliance, we are not very enthusiastic about these powers for the Minister in general, because we believe that Parliament's forward-looking control over the implementation of EU legislation in this area is weakening. The power, for example, will be: Will the Minister be able to change the legislation in such a case without the involvement of the Danish Parliament? That's a question mark. In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that Danish regulation in the fields of nature, environment and resources must follow EU rules and directives in order to avoid distortions of competition, and only in exceptional circumstances should Denmark go ahead and introduce special legislation, which must always involve an extraordinary effort by Denmark in the EU to get the other Member States to introduce similar legislation and to ensure uniform framework conditions for companies across the EU. That is why I have also noted with ease of mind that the Minister has included a remark which clearly states that the authorisation cannot be used to lay down national special rules. And I am also pleased to note that in the consultation note the Ministry has found the opportunity to draw attention to its work on fundamental simplifications and modernisation of environmental legislation and that a full or partial revision and modernisation of the environmental protection law can be considered in this context. The ambition of this work is to create a more simple, clear and coherent legal structure that can give inspiration in the legislation of the coming years in the field of the Ministry of the Environment and Food, the consultation note states. The legislation in relation to landscape considerations may not be more simple and coherent with the present legislative proposal, but with the amendment we will then ensure that the protection of landscape considerations when dealing with what is to be called mining waste in Denmark will be at the same level as in the rest of the European Union, should it become relevant in the future. That's why the Liberal Alliance can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223132155	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223132204	After all, a letter of formal notice must be taken seriously, which is why it is important that we get this right. It may well be that we in Denmark do not have relevant industry, but we have an extraction waste directive, and we must of course have implemented that. What concerns us in the alternative in L 120 is that the Minister, like the lock-up of the authority to be a minimum implementation, and I think that is a wrong principle. We need to have an opening to the possibility that there may be special Danish situations and that therefore there is the possibility to define specific Danish rules, and that is what is locked, as described in the general comments on this bill. So in the alternative, we are a little worried about this and we do not immediately support the proposal, but let us see what we can learn more about in committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223132316	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223132326	As our rapporteur is unfortunately unable to be present right now, I have agreed to express the Radical Left's position on this proposal, which is, of course, clear, as it is a kind of fatamorgana law proposal, that it initially does not concern any companies in Denmark. All the more so I would like to say that it is almost tragic, as much as you do what this proposal should not be in relation to non-over-implementation; it should not be possible to think in any way, you can sense, 1 mm in addition to EU legislation. I would just like to say this in all silence and serenity to the government: this kind of consistent, unambitious thinking and much, very regulatoryism with regard to EU legislation we are not in favour of. We must comply with EU legislation, but why on earth should we not give Danish companies and Danish competences the opportunity to do it even better than they do in Europe? We do not understand that logic in the Radical Left at all, but vote in favour of it because we then hope that we will be able to deliver one of the ministers who will be allowed to make the authorisation at a later stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223132432	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223132442	Thank you. On some points, this is really a sensible proposal, but, like others, we are also very concerned by the SF about the rhetoric about special rules and over-implementation and this language, which I know of course is the characteristic of the Left Government. But on the part of the SF, we are not willing to sign a bill in which, at the same time, we have to establish a new line where we talk about over-implementation as something that is bad and national special rules as something that is always bad. There are a large number of areas where we want to go further, and therefore we cannot say yes from up here today. There is something we need to uncover because we believe that the language itself is leading to a line where over-implementation is always bad. We would like to go further where we think it is in Denmark's interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223132542	Thank you. Then there is a question from Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223132546	It is quite clear that when we read the bill, we read it with two different kinds of glasses, because I do not really read this because the Minister is not empowered to do this with over-implementation and national special rules, as a bad thing. That is why my question to the rapporteur is whether, according to the rapporteur and the Socialist People's Party, it will not be quite okay that if you want to do more in Denmark, you will come down to the Chamber and have the discussion down here, and then we will decide that we want to do it right in this area, because that can be quite fine in that respect. But it is not something that the European Union has imposed on us, it is something that we do with open eyes and something that a majority in the Danish Parliament adopts because we want to do so in Denmark. Isn't it all right to do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160223132630	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223132633	I actually agree with that, and it may well be that we read it differently. After all, the rapporteur and I have also worked very hard in the Committee on European Affairs on some of these discussions. What I am aware of now, and that was actually a bit of that too, Mr President. Søren Egge Rasmussen mentioned in her question to Mrs Pia Adelsteen, is that when we have cases that take up a lot, for example. as at the moment, when we are discussing nitrogen standards, there may be some things to look at, and right now there is a discussion about whether we should at all in relation to EU law and so on, but I am not really so concerned about that, as we have often discussed that too. What do we want from Denmark itself? First of all, I do not want to go into a rhetoric that SF does not do about overimplementation; we think there may be good reasons to go further. But I fully agree with the questioner that we are laying down the policy in this Chamber, so if we do not want to go further, for example. With environmental protection or with regard to nitrogen emissions, that is something we decide here within the framework that we have committed ourselves to, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223132737	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223132740	I am glad to hear that, because I actually believe that we are in agreement in this way. I do not think it should be called over-implementation, so we can call it national rules, but we can also change them at any time. That is why it is so important, I think, to highlight the motion for a resolution adopted by the B 52, which was adopted by the Blue Block before the elections, precisely in relation to the fact that we want to be very square. Perhaps that is why I think it is somewhat positive in this draft law on what the European Union is demanding and what it really is that we, as politicians, want in Denmark. And it is, of course, whether you are red or blue or purple, or whatever the hell we can be of color, but that we are very open about what it is that we are
ParlaMint-DK_20160223132826	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223132828	I think the rapporteur is saying this so well: • do not always blame the EU. Because there are often areas where a framework has been created, where it is said that we now have to live up to these and those obligations. It may be politically disagreeable whether we should do so, but I accept that this framework is being laid down in the European Union. Whether we should then fill them in one direction or another, we will decide here in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223132848	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223132859	Thank you for that, President. The Extractive Waste Directive is such a new concept that I have just learned about recently. After all, we are laying down procedures and guidelines to prevent and limit the environmental damage caused by the management of waste from the extractive industry, and the European Commission, in a letter of formal notice, has criticised the fact that some of the provisions of the directive have not been properly transposed into Danish law. The draft law we are discussing today must then give the Minister the authority to lay down rules which can take account of the landscape in the environmental protection law to the extent necessary for the proper implementation of this directive. I can be very brief and say that we can certainly back that up. When you read it, however, you can only draw a little bit on the smile tape, because it is of course estimated that there are currently no waste facilities which are actually covered by the Mining Waste Directive and that therefore no companies are directly affected. However, this is the case with the European Union, which is why we can also vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223133004	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223133010	I would like to thank all the rapporteurs and indeed the vast majority of rapporteurs for supporting the draft law. In fact, I have to say that I am impressed by the commitment of the rapporteurs to this bill. Even sir. Martin Lidegaard has prepared himself carefully for today's debate. Thank you. As several speakers have said, this is about the implementation of the Mining Waste Directive, the Mining Waste Directive, and it has a long history, which I think I should just like to tell the rapporteurs about. The first letter of formal notice actually came in 2008. The Commission considered that Denmark did not comply adequately with the directive, and that is where we have tried to argue over many years from the Danish side that further implementation was unnecessary, as we simply do not have mining in Denmark. The Commission maintains its position and has insisted in an additional letter of formal notice from 2015 that Denmark should fully implement the directive, even if there is no mining in the country. So I would just like to say that we have had a very long dialogue with the Commission on this and now we are simply trying to put an end to this by following the Commission's instructions. Specifically, this is done by introducing a legal basis in the environmental protection law to take account of landscape considerations when dealing with mining waste, and I wonder if we can persuade both the alternative and the SF to back it up here in committee. I am happy to answer any questions that may be asked. As several rapporteurs have also mentioned, this is a relatively small thing, but if it can make the Commission happy that we have fully implemented the directive, then we will deal with it in that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223133211	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223133216	Thank you. I can only ask whether the Minister does not think that the European Union and the Commission simply have too much time and money when so much time can be spent on such a thing, knowing that Denmark is a country that does not have mining, and when I ask it is, of course, because it seems totally ridiculous to me. I have also heard about this delegation of Commission officials who went to Iceland to find out what agricultural land is, because Iceland is, after all, a little different it was in connection with the accession negotiations and therefore you hear many of these rather silly stories. And my question is, isn't this nonsense?
ParlaMint-DK_20160223133259	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223133301	In other words, the Commission claims that this is a matter of proper implementation of the directive. I think it might be enough to promise that the day we had to get mining in Denmark, we should probably also take this element with us. But goddamn it, if this can end this very, very long dialogue that has been with the Commission on this, then I think we are living with it in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223133325	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223133328	Yes, and of course you can say that it is a small thing and that it doesn't matter etc. But all other things being equal, we also have some people here in Denmark who have been concerned that this should be implemented in a proper way, knowing that we do not have mining in Denmark, and that is also an expense for Danish taxpayers, one might say. It's not that silly. It may
ParlaMint-DK_20160223133352	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223133356	Yes, but we shall hopefully end it now, and there will be plenty of other tasks for the officials, among other things. to get the answer to questions to the Folketing and similar things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223133408	Thank you. Then it's mr. Orla Sea, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223133415	I can, of course, share the Minister's a little bit, we should say, easy approach to the subject, and I had it myself. But now that the Minister is expressing what the Minister is now doing in relation to the fact that we have not been working and I am in agreement with that, I have to ask a question. If it had gone differently with the shale gas experiment in North Jutland, would we have had mining in Denmark, and should we have had a readiness to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20160223133441	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223133446	Yes, as a starting point. Well, if we would have had any waste from shale gas drilling, it could be discussed. Then the answer to Mr. Orla Sea is yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223133454	Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223133456	Then I have to say that I have been up to see the large plant that has been set up to make test drillings, and I just have to say that I am a little more satisfied that we are out in a bit of time to ensure that we have a readiness to do so, in view of the fact that we actually want to take care of the landscape that we have. Because I share the view that a great many of those who live near the large facility up in northern Jutland have had that this could quite frankly look dangerous, and that is why it is probably wise to have a set of rules. And then I'm happy to live with the fact that it won't be relevant with shale gas, because I think we can do without that. However, I welcome the fact that, after all, we are out of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223133540	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223133542	Yes, and I can inform Mr. Orla Hav, that the test drillings that have been made in North Jutland have now been completed and that there are currently no test drillings after shale gas elsewhere in Denmark. So that is not the case here either. If it comes, yes, we've been out in good time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223133603	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223133616	The debate is open, and first it is Mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223133641	Thank you. After all, it is sad to be confronted with history after history that SKAT does not work, about systems full of errors, employees who are not heard, and managers who do not respond in time. It is, of course, crucial for a tax-financed welfare society like ours that we restore confidence in SKAT. It's gonna have to be cleaned up. It's gonna take time, and it's gonna have to work hard on this every day. Social democracy is among the parties that concluded a common understanding last year to create the framework for SKAT. It is absolutely crucial that recovery is managed, and that is why we are now trying to build a new recovery system. For us, the common understanding is basically about the fact that the parties participating in the Left, the Social Democratic Party, the DF, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical and the Conservative Party must have an expectation that, in a way, we are also helping to solve those challenges together. And we in the Social Democratic Party have made it clear from the outset that we will be positive about this and thus also help the government to carry positive changes through in the Parliamentary Chamber. This is among other things. In the light of this, we need to see this bill... it's the second of its kind since the automatic recovery was dropped through the EFI, that is, a common recovery system. And this bill will then help to resolve some of the situation we are facing after the EFI. A new IT system should be set up, which should be in place, on the basis of simpler solutions and simpler and clearer legislation. The goal is to have a new system in place in 2019. Learned from the experience of SKAT and IT systems, this is certainly something that needs to be followed very closely, and we intend to do so too. Until then, another system, a temporary system, will have to be put in place which, I hope, will be able to become permanent at some point in time. And that is what we are dealing with here. There are, of course, a number of amendments to this draft law, such as: is about addressing a limited number of claims, or debts, if you like, to the public, to make the temporary system work, and thus there is also a need to dispense with some of the general rules that currently apply to recovery. In addition, it is proposed to change the right of appeal in the field of recovery so that complaints are sent directly to SKAT. If the SKAT then investigates the case and does not change their decision, the case, as we understand it, goes directly to the Tax Appeals Board. And I hope that the tax minister has also noticed that he nods in the affirmative, so we have read it correctly. We think that is very sensible. In addition, the draft law contains a number of adjustments which, in the light of the concerns and criticisms raised in the hearings, we would like to see a thorough discussion of in the forthcoming committee's work. This concerns, among other things: on the offsetting and income escalation of child and youth benefits carried out by SKAT without Party consultation and on the proposal that SKAT be able to obtain and use information on persons entitled to child and youth benefits and on net income for statistical and accounting purposes. There are a number of concerns in the consultation answers, including: President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The draft law also states that the aim of these adjustments and clarifications is to create a clear and unambiguous legal basis. It has to be said, if you look at the comments, both in the consultation answers, but also in the answers from the Ministry, that it is not quite clear that it will be clear and unambiguous. On the contrary, in our view there is a legitimate concern that it is actually rather unclear, and we need to have it better in committee. Finally, I would like to mention that the National Association of Municipalities mentions that with the prioritising of recovery there is a risk that the debt to the municipal will increase and it is already quite high. The government played out a few weeks ago saying that you might take over the debt or compensate for it, and there we can also see that the government has replied in the comment to the National Association of Municipalities, that you will look into that and so on. I mean, I think it's time for the government to play out clearly and say how they're going to help the municipalities in that situation. The economy of the municipalities is already under pressure, and then you discuss re-prioritisation contributions and all sorts of other things on top, and therefore that process can go a little quickly and you can quickly give some clear answers. However, as I said, we support and are positive in helping to establish a situation where we move forward after the EFI.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223134145	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223134153	I understand the background to this bill. After all, it is about cleaning up work now having to start after SKAT has been saved to pieces by successive governments since 2005. In this context, it may be necessary to make some changes to the law. I also understand that. After all, we need to clean up, and I would also like to contribute to that, even if we on the Enhedslisten side have not helped to save SKAT to pieces in the years that have gone by. However, what I would like to ask the rapporteur is whether the rapporteur has an overview of how much of this bill could be spared if more people were hired in SKAT. I'm thinking, among other things. That the right to party hearing is restricted for many people here. We have seen that you only concentrate on certain claims, that is to say you start recovering some things while leaving other things behind. Does the rapporteur have an overview of how much of this legislation could actually be dispensed with if more people were employed in the SKAT?
ParlaMint-DK_20160223134241	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223134243	No, the rapporteur has not. Actually, I don't have an overview of that. I think that one of the relevant things you might be able to ask is how the calculation is actually, as to whether an employee who is hired can earn the money home. I am quite sure that would be a pretty good investment. Some of what we have made clear from the outset is also stated in the common understanding paper that we are in fact positive about whether there is a need to add more resources. However, the questioner is quite right to say that the rationalisation gains back in 2006, 2007 and 2008 before the system actually worked, and that is something that has contributed to the morass we are facing today. And you can't just conjure that back by hiring a horde of new employees. We need to have a system that works, and that is what the Socialists would like to contribute to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223134330	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223134332	Is it to be understood that during the work of the committee the rapporteur will also help us to look at how an increased number of employees in the SKAT could help to solve some of the problems that are being tackled with this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20160223134344	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223134346	Yes, we are happy to contribute to that. If the question is whether we are going to make it concrete in relation to this bill and whether, if we cannot get that calculation done, then we will not vote for the bill, then I would say that I cannot promise the Enhedslisten. However, with regard to the discussion on how the resource situation should look and how the calculations look, I fully share the need for better clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223134410	Thank you. There are no more questions. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223134421	As the previous rapporteur has said, this is about recovery in SKAT. After all, we have had to scrap the common collection system called EFI, which had been working on for many years and which was supposed to be responsible for recovery digitally. The fact that it has been abandoned has meant that recovery is now in ruins. If you are going to try to see it from the positive side, I would say that it can only go forward now. I think it does that with this bill, which, after all, is a step in the right direction. This bill is, as it were, round two in the legislative proposals that have been put forward to improve recovery. The first round was, of course, that we had the limitation periods postponed. As I said, this is the second round, and I'm sure there'll be a few more rounds forward. This bill adds the first building blocks to a new system to support recovery digitally, and it is supposed to enter into force in 2019. What you then do up to then is to create a temporary IT support which will ensure that, after all, until that date, we can get some money in. It is then intended that this temporary system will later be able to be extended to form a more basic, permanent system. The temporary system should only contain the new debtors, but that does not mean, as I read it, that the old debtors do not have to pay their debts, but the recovery of it is not IT-supported by this system. The new system will, at first, only be able to deal with 25 different types of claims, and I think that can really be sensible enough. For part of the problem with the old system was that you did this so-called star war project, i.e. a huge system that had to deal with all the different types of claims, which could be difficult, and which was virtually impossible. So I actually think it might be a good idea to start a little in the small and then develop in the positive direction. When you know that it works with the 25 types of claims, you can build on some more types of claims and then slowly build up a system that can work. The challenge is, after all, what is to happen to all the types of claims that are not supported by the temporary system. I could see in the hearings that this is one of the things that the National Association of Municipalities also cares a great deal about, and we do so in the Danish People's Party. We think it would be a good thing if, in the committee's work, we could get a little more work done on whether, in relation to some of the other types of claim, we could perhaps give the municipalities some tools that would allow them to make an extra effort before they pass the claim on to SKAT. At any rate, it could be positive if they could, because it is limited what the municipalities have of opportunities today. If we could do something to ensure that the many places from which the claims come before they come to the SKAT could do something for themselves, then it could be really positive. I have also noticed in the daily press that the tax minister has said that he is open to having a dialogue with the National Association of Municipalities to find out here, and we fully support this in the Danish People's Party. I also think that the Parliamentary Tax Committee should engage constructively in this work to see if we can provide the municipalities with tools so that they can handle it themselves. Otherwise, the draft law contains a number of other things, including: Something about the complaint structure, so SKAT is going to look at the cases before they get to the Tax Appeals Authority. That seems to us to be a sensible change. And then there are a number of clarifications, among others. I should also like to refer to the increase in the income of children and young people, which the Socialists also mentioned. There we think it would be reasonable to get it more into committee work, because there are, after all, some critical comments from, among others. Data Protection Agency. It is clear that there must of course be a good and sensible answer to this, so that there is no doubt about how to deal with these things in the future. So we also think it is good to have a look at during the committee work. Finally, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I can say that we are in favour of the proposal and, although it may be a small step in the right direction, it is, after all, a positive step in the right direction, so that we can get better tax recovery in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223134837	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223134844	The reason why we are here today is basically the structural reform carried out by V, K and DF in 2005 which also centralised SKAT and where the introduction of EFI fired thousands of employees. Now, 11 years later, we're gonna be cleaning up. SKAT has now become an organisation in deep crisis, and all sorts of different measures must now be taken. How does the rapporteur feel about the fact that the things that the Danish People's Party helped to achieve by a narrow majority back in 2005 today mean that SKAT is in deep crisis and that billions are running out of the treasury, for example. to foreign fraudsters, or as we have also seen in a documentary broadcast from Danish Radio, that perhaps this money is also going to finance terrorist activities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160223134940	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223134942	Now you mix things up a little bit. There have been a great many serious cases in the area of taxation, and the DR has indeed documented many of them, and some of them are about VAT fraud and carousel fraud due to EU rules, so this has not happened simply because of the recovery system, which is what we are dealing with here today. After all, the rapporteur also asks how you feel about it and how it feels that things are going so badly in the SKAT. I hope that we can all say in here that we feel really bad about that. I believe that we all have an interest in the fact that we have SKAT and, in particular, also a recovery system that works very well, and I do not necessarily believe that the decision taken back in 2005 can be blamed for the fact that I think it is good to try to provide IT support for recovery. The challenge has probably just been the way to deal with it, i.e. that you tried to do this giant star war project, where you hadn't foreseen that there could be, I think it's up to 200 different claims you had to deal with. I think it is quite right that we should now start to simplify it and make sure that there can be fewer claims, you have to deal with IT-wise; and that you try to do so in a completely different way and, for example, in a different way. As in this proposal, it goes in small steps instead of taking it as a huge system development project from the start.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223135048	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223135052	I can confirm that there are incredibly many scandals in the SKAT. I don't think anyone's attention has passed that on. But how does the rapporteur feel about the plan that has been made to get SKAT out of the crisis, a part of this so-called Borg Peace, where those parties that have helped to save SKAT in pieces over the last 11 years will not talk about the past, but very much want to look forward? How does the rapporteur feel about the fact that in 2016 SKAT has a smaller budget than SKAT had in 2015? I personally have a big problem with that. I believe that this is actually an expression of the fact that we have not learnt enough from what is the reason for the current situation in the SKAT, namely that we have saved SKAT in pieces.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223135132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223135135	In fact, I do not mind talking about the past in the SKAT. I think it is very important that we learn from the past so that we can make better solutions in the future. In fact, I think that is what lies in this peace of the castle, namely that you have given each other a handshake, that instead of just kicking the SKAT and trying to knock down trying to see if there can be any solutions where this is part of it. In fact, I welcome the fact that there is a broad majority in the Folketing that looks at this constructively and says that we must now try to see whether we can help the SKAT out of the crisis because there are a great many problems that the rapporteur also mentioned, and there is therefore an important need to resolve them in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223135208	Thank you for that. Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223135218	Thank you. As the speakers before me have explained, the reason for this bill is anything but dressable. The crisis in the SKAT is Inefficient recovery, failed property assessments, fraud with dividend tax. Yes, the list is unfortunately long. That is why I welcome the fact that in September 2015 the Minister of Taxation took the initiative on the plan "SKAT" out of the crisis, and it is particularly pleasing that such a wide range of parliamentary parties have chosen to take responsibility here and participate in the work to restore SKAT. This proposal is one of the steps along the way. Unfortunately, the EFI, a common recovery system, had to be shut down and now we are faced with a period in which recovery is not working and a new IT system is being worked on to replace the EFI. A solution is needed in the intervening period and it presents the government with this proposal. Legal certainty in the field of taxation is one of the government's tax policy targets. It is not fair that coincidences determine for each individual whether one's debt is aged so that SKAT cannot recover it and one can avoid paying taxes while others have to pay their debts. Although the background to this proposal is depressing, I welcome the fact that work on recovering the recovery system is under way with broad support. We need to clean up thoroughly and, in the meantime, temporary solutions are needed for the benefit of legal certainty. On behalf of the Left, I must inform you that we support the bill. Since the Conservative rapporteur could not be here today, I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that the Conservatives also support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223135420	Thank you. There is one comment from Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223135423	The Left says that there is a great deal of concern for legal certainty. And in the area of taxation, it is the case that the tax minister will present even more so-called legal certainty packages. However, it is not a little strange that what we are talking about is that with one hand we want to strengthen legal certainty by presenting legal certainty packages, while with the other hand, for example. in relation to this bill, does the legal certainty of a large number of citizens actually weaken? What I am talking about is, after all, paragraph 4 and paragraph 5 of this draft law, which will set off without a party hearing and make an income escalation of child and youth benefits without a party hearing. That's what's in the bill. How is it that with one hand you want to strengthen legal certainty, while with the other hand you are weakening legal certainty?
ParlaMint-DK_20160223135510	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223135513	After all, you will still have the opportunity to be heard if you just say so within the time limit. So it is not the case that people are being driven over completely, and in this case there will still be an opportunity for citizens to be heard. I see this as an opportunity to collect taxes from people in cases that could have become obsolete. And one might ask: why do some people who actually owe the state money not have to pay that tax because the SKAT system, EFI, has gone down while all the law-abiding citizens who pay their taxes on time have to pay their taxes? I do not think this is legal certainty for the citizens of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223135555	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223135558	I fully agree with that, and I think we could have solved a large part of the problem if the parties that have been behind cuts for the past 11 years had not spared SKAT. Then we would not have had the problem we are facing today in all the areas where problems are seen. However, would the rapporteur not acknowledge that this draft law alone is a weakening of legal certainty?
ParlaMint-DK_20160223135624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223135626	I think we take care of people's legal certainty by ensuring that they still have the opportunity to be heard if only they indicate that they want to be heard in this context. And we have made that possible in this bill, so I do not think we are weakening legal certainty. Then I would say that it may well be that Enhedslisten continues to say that we are saving on SKAT, but it is easy to say when you have never taken responsibility for the actions that have taken place in the field of taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223135643	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. It also helps if the rapporteur starts to come up here a little, because you know that you have to be on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223135706	This bill, as has also been mentioned by other rapporteurs, is of course about the fact that we in the Danish Parliament are to adopt legislation following the scrapping of the EFI. After all, the EFI is the scandal system introduced in the context of the 2005 structural reform, where a lot of functions were centralised in the SKAT and at the same time it was decided that thousands of employees would now be fired. We have seen the consequences of that policy, of that reform, and we have also seen that the former S-led government unfortunately continued in that direction and among other things. in connection with the 2014 Finance Act, 400 posts were allocated to SKAT. It is a question of a political majority in the Folketing having abused SKAT for years and cutting SKAT down to the sock holders, saving SKAT to pieces. Now we stand and have to clean up, and we on the side of Enhedslisten would like to contribute to that. We therefore understand that some extra things and something different must be done during a temporary period and that legislation may also need to be changed. But we would also like to have a discussion about how much of this was needed if you hired some more people in the SKAT. If, for example, you're gonna have to... In the area of VAT, and then on the recovery task, i.e. how much, for example, was done. could solve with it. In general, we are discussing how we could help SKAT by adding more resources to SKAT. Then there's a whole lot of things in this bill, and I'm gonna focus on some of them. The first is, of course, the establishment of special rules for the order of cover, the recovery of selected claims during this temporary period. As a rule, only 25 types of claims will be recovered, and if the system is successful then the portfolio of these types of claims will be expanded. That's why we have to change the order of cover to make it legal. That's what this bill is about. It also says that it will increase recovery revenue compared to today, but that it is highly uncertain how much revenue will be generated. In principle, we are relatively critical of making a patchwork solution in the way that this bill shows, because you are now beginning to divide claims into two groups: those you are pursuing and those you are, as it were, letting sail your own lake. After all, it is an unacceptable situation that some citizens' claims should not be recovered from the outset while others remain, and it opens up the possibility of fraudsters being able to find out where it is that is being recovered and where it is that is not being recovered, and then you can start making big-scale fraud. I think the only sensible answer one should have in this context must be that, before starting these discussions, one is discussing how even more people can be employed in the SKAT so that we can do the job even better. Then there has been a change in the handling of complaints against SKAT in connection with the recovery of arrears. 2 of the draft law and there the Minister proposes that SKAT should be able to continue as if we still had full automation in connection with the EFI, which means that it is still without party consultation. I also find this very difficult to support, especially when we have had the discussions on legal certainty in SKAT and the Minister for Taxation presents legal certainty packages. Why is it that, when we have a situation where SKAT is in big trouble, where it sails in many ways, the maximum focus is not on how citizens' legal certainty can be optimized. I think it is quite natural that there should be consultation of the parties as a natural element. And if it is the case that there are not enough employees, then we have to look again at how we can add more employees to the SKAT. We have seen that it has been incredibly expensive to fire all the many employees in the SKAT, and that it is indeed the case that we can hardly afford not to hire more people in the SKAT. In conclusion, I would just like to say that there are also a few good elements in the draft law. there is the inclusion of registration in bankruptcy cartels, which are concerned with tightening up the rules on bankruptcies, and that there are now several areas where registration can be withdrawn or denied. That is, of course, very good and, of course, it is something we can support. However, basically, in committee we would like to have a discussion on how we can look at how we can strengthen SKAT more than at present, because it is the case that SKAT in 2016 has a lower budget than it had in 2015. And we think it's a little strange that you launch a plan called SKAT out of the crisis, where you then add SKAT a lower budget than what SKAT had in 2015, because it didn't go so well in 2015. So this is something that we will continue to focus on in the further consideration of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223140227	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223140231	Thank you. Sir. In her question, Rune Lund put to me the idea that one should almost not invest in a temporary IT support and that it was a mistake to make the EFI in 2005 and that instead of having to hire some more staff. I think it is quite wrong to say that there is too little staff, but I do not understand the logic of why you should not get anything out of doing IT support. I think it is a fairly widespread view in Danish society that you can actually get some good efficiency by having a good IT support that makes you work more efficiently and maybe hit more correctly, because with a computer you hit more systematically than you do if it is done manually. That is just what I would like it to be clarified a little by Enhedslisten's rapporteur: Does Enhedslisten really believe that it should be by purely manual work that this tax collection should be made, or does Enhedslisten think that it might not be a good idea to actually, as this proposal suggests, create an IT support for recovery in SKAT?
ParlaMint-DK_20160223140324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223140328	I can confirm that digitisation and IT support are the future, that this is the way forward, that this is the way to do it and that this is the right way to do it. I also think that the right way to do this is to do it as you do it here, where you build small systems up several times, rather than doing a star war project or a titanium project. I just think it is important that it is not digitalisation that is going on without discussing the framework for SKAT's work at the same time, and I and Enhedslisten believe that, with the basis that lies now, which is called the SKAT out of the crisis, the right framework for SKAT's work has not been provided.Scat resources have not been provided enough; it has not been corrected to the effect that thousands of employees in SKAT have been cut for years. But I can confirm that digitalisation and IT support are, of course, the way forward. It goes without saying, among other things. also because, as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær says reduces the risk of errors, which there is a higher risk of happens during manual work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223140418	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223140421	Thank you for that answer. In other words, as I understand it, we agree with the intention of the draft law that there should be IT support and that it is good that it should be set in motion and taken in small steps to avoid this huge star war project, as has been expressed many times. So it is really a resource issue and I think it is perfectly legal that you have it. However, what the rapporteur said in both the rapporteur's speeches and questions is that it is felt that there should be no IT support instead of hiring some people. I would just like to appeal to you to express yourself clearly and say that it is not a either-or-but that it is a positive thing that you have IT support. Then it is clear that, as a political party, more resources can be added in addition.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223140457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223140501	I am sorry if I expressed myself unclearly, because there is no doubt that IT support and digitisation are the way forward. But it is also not a discussion that can be taken, what to say, in isolation from the discussion about resources to SKAT and the number of employees who have it. And it is true that, in relation to the concrete construction of a temporary recovery system, it may make sense to take it in small stages. But there are also other parts of this bill, besides the general discussion on resources for SKAT, which one could look at when it comes to whether further provision of resources or employees to SKAT will be able to solve some of the problems this bill is trying to solve in a different and better way and with a greater degree of legal certainty for citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223140537	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. The next rapporteur is Mrs Merete Riisager, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223140546	Thank you. The history of the EFI is the history of a tax system in decline. In Denmark, we have traditionally had the understanding of our tax system that we pay a very high tax, but on the other hand the pieces are under control. I'm afraid it's not like that anymore. We are still paying away a very high tax, but now we also have a high waste and a low level of public confidence in our tax system. Why did it go so wrong? One of the reasons why things have gone so wrong is that we have tax ministers. At least that's what I'm saying. And this does not necessarily apply only to the current tax minister, but to tax ministers in general, because it is the case that we in Denmark have a politicisation of the tax area. It's actually very few places in the world where you have a tax department. A tax system should be a machine that ensures that the tax is properly recovered. However, when the machine does not work, the confidence of the population drops to the whole tax system and the legitimacy of it. In relation to the EFI system, a tax lottery has been created in which some answer the tax they should, while others do not because the system does not work. It is imperceptible and unfair, and it is a climate in which you can expect cheating to thrive. In the Liberal Alliance, we want simpler tax legislation in which all citizens and businesses can see through what tax they have to pay and why. One major reason why it has gone so wrong is that laws and rules in relation to recovery were so complex that they could not be thought into an IT system. What has also happened is that we have had a dysfunctional organisation, where you have continued to build on an IT system and have wanted to launch it several times, knowing that it would probably never work. More transparency and responsibility are needed, including in the civil service. Those responsible for developing IT systems must, of course, take responsibility for this. This is the case with well-functioning organisations that are transparent, and you might ask: Who is responsible? If you do your job well, of course you must also be rewarded for it and, for example, you must be rewarded for it. have a bonus if you've done very well. Of course, you should not have a bonus for a system or for an EFI system which has been scrapped when it has been such a failure as is the case. In terms of responsibility, it will ultimately end up in the political layer of the current minister if things continue as they are now and, of course, also in the circle of parties working on the recovery of the SKAT. In the Liberal Alliance, we want clear objectives for that process. We want to see, among other things. a clear goal in relation to waste in SKAT, both when it comes to depreciation and when it comes to losses. It has a direct cost to law-abiding taxpayers when an IT system is scrapped and when recovery is as inadequate as it is. So we must have clear objectives so that we can follow the process and assess whether the restoration is taking place in a sufficiently reassuring manner. We support L 122 and remember that we are standing here, not in order to protect the law and the system in terms of criticism and scrutiny, but in order to protect citizens from irregularities and unreasonable costs resulting from an opaque and not functioning system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223140941	Thank you to Mrs Merete Riisager. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223140951	Thank you. In the alternative, we also think that in almost every possible way we should correct what has happened by, among other things, correcting what has happened. The EFI has not done what the system should have done, namely to scratch in the money on which our welfare society is based, and that is why we want to go a long way. We believe that the proposal here is a sensible one. Conversely, there are some places where it gives such a little feeling that there are still some skeletons that can fall out of the closet in a few years' time when we look back and see that we have made the things that we are sitting and deciding right now. It is when, for example, the Data Protection Agency specifies that they think that precisely the word clarification is wrong to use in relation to the Personal Data Act in some of the changes you want to make. There is a single point in the text where they may suggest that there is actually going to be a deviation from the personal data law, and then something where you might make things a little less radical than they really are going to be, i.e. using the word to clarify where you actually differ from legislation. This is the kind of thing that makes me say: "Oh, come on, now we have to look very carefully because the ambition and purpose here is good, but we have to be sure that we will not drag anything down on both citizens and those who are going to sit and do the work at SKAT, which is actually going to violate some of the things we are happy about in SKAT, namely the order and the retention of data that we are already quite good at, that we are not going to fail something, because we have to catch up with something old that has gone badly. So that's one of the things we're looking for mostly. The National Association of Municipalities outlines a fairly significant concern about the implementation of this, where they actually think it is incalculable • I think that word is being used. So I think that, in the committee work, we should also take a position on this, because I believe very much that ownership in relation to SKAT is one of the most successful places in which we can have confidence restored. So if you are not in the municipalities, and if you do not feel very, very strong confidence in the tools they are about to use, and for the missions they are going on, it will be very difficult to make them succeed. This actually applies to both people and machines. So, even though we're getting this created on a sound basis and getting some of it automated in this I was just going to call it a mini-EFI system, but I'm not going to do that. We're now building with the new system that should be able to cope with what the EFI has not been able to cope with, I think it's essential that you don't bet on reaching 100 percent. automation. Perhaps it could be elegant and sensible, but I also think that there is probably 20%. of this, which the machine cannot do where people are very, very important. There I also heard earlier from the Enhedslisten that one focused on the fact that if the resources removed from the SKAT had been there, one might have actually avoided many of these problems and one had been allowed to work in the most appropriate way instead of constantly having to be restructured and reduced. So in the alternative, we are very positive about taking these measures, but we are very aware of the consultation answers that have been received, as several other parties have also said. Then I have to say from the SF that they are also positive as a starting point, but again they are annoyed that you are in this situation, where some people might have done a very good job, but now we are about to make such hoovesa solutions that make those people who could have done a good job, yes, so they have not come back again. But we are now going to insert a new machine to do something that hopefully will be good, but which we actually still do not really have in the alternative security for going to work because we have not seen any new way of purchasing IT. We have not seen any new way of providing IT solutions that make us safe in relation to what is now being created, but we can be pleasantly surprised at that. So, both the Alternative and the SF look forward to the committee work and look positively at the recovery of the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223141348	Thank you, sir. René Gade. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223141356	Thank you very much. We are dealing here with one of the legislative proposals which underlines the seriousness of the crisis in which SKAT finds itself and which, in these weeks, is once again being uncovered through Denmark's Radio, where one gets the impression that unfortunately in several areas of the SKAT there have been serious mess and systems that have not worked, which has resulted in a billion losses. We would like to join in the chorus of parties that are involved in taking our share of responsibility for cleaning it up, which is why, of course, we also welcome the consideration of this bill. However, I must also say, like several other parties, that the consultation answers we have received for this bill reveal to me both some general issues that I think the tax minister will have to take seriously and some specific ones that relate to the bill. Generally speaking, it is possible to get the impression that at least the municipalities feel that the recovery business that the EFI should have taken care of is going to actually work, both in terms of the claims that are historical, which the municipalities have today, and which the State may or may not have intended to sell in some way, but also in terms of the claims that come from now on that we will have a computer system that will hopefully help SKAT to do so digitally, just as we are doing in many other areas. There I have to say that it is possible to get the impression on the consultation answers that it is a little for the government to clarify these things with the municipalities, and I do not think that it will do anything, and certainly not the process of restoring the credibility of the SKAT, that we cannot get that division of labour ready and dispose of the cases so that we know exactly what the different parts of the public administration have to do in this matter. The supply companies have also written in and said that they would like them to be included. I cannot assess whether it is wise or not, but I think the Minister owes them an answer. More specifically in relation to this legislation, several issues are then raised in the area of legal certainty. Legal certainty is a matter of great concern to the Radical Left. We actually thought it did that for the tax minister, and I think it should be taken seriously when the Ankestyrelsen writes that they think the risk of error increases if you simply start to cancel the hearing of the parties in connection with the reduction of child and youth benefits. I can read from the comments from the Ministry that they think so, so that they like to get covered because you can get it corrected by your tax return. But that also happens in the tax returns, so I am not entirely convinced that we have solved the problem of legal certainty alone with those comments. That is therefore one of the things that we will be asking about during the committee procedure, because legal certainty is important, not least at a time when we have had these problems in the SKAT. Another point that has been raised by several speakers is that the Data Protection Agency draws attention to an uncertainty they believe there may be in relation to the Personal Data Act. And I think the Minister would be well advised to have it drilled out during the committee proceedings too and possibly to have the bill put in order so that any doubt has been swept off the rails. So, rightly or wrongly, the tax minister is now in charge of cleaning up a mess for which many ministers must take responsibility in the course of history. However, this does not relieve the Minister of responsibility for doing so properly or the government of the responsibility for doing so and for creating the clarity that is required at this stage even if none of us want to go turkey hunting in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223141741	There is one brief comment. Sir. Rune Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223141746	I fully agree that it is important to take responsibility. I am also pleased that Enhedslisten and I have not taken responsibility, in the sense that we have not been a part of, what to say, savings tax pieces for the last 11 years. But how does the rapporteur feel about taking responsibility for the fact that the budget for SKAT in 2016 is, in fact, a little less than the budget was in 2015? Is this an expression of the fact that the level that has been decided to help SKAT at this time is the right one and that with the way the SKAT looks now and with the budget that the SKAT has taken on sufficient responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20160223141822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223141826	Unfortunately, I do not feel able to answer that question because I am not a tax minister. But I kind of share Mr. Rune Lund's concern. It is quite clear to me at this stage that some savings were made on the SKAT employees at a time when there was no evidence to implement them. Why they have been implemented, even though it has been known, at least in some places, that the system was not clear and that, therefore, the efficiency gains that were expected could not be achieved and therefore had no evidence to fire all those employees, I dare not say. However, I dare say that it is, of course, the responsibility of the current Minister to ensure that at least the employees are required to carry out the recovery task in 2016, 2017 and 2018. I have wondered at that too that the workforce seems to be being cut overall, even if some people are moving to the recovery area, and that is why it is clearly some of the things we want to keep an eye on and keep up with the Minister over the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223141925	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223141929	One of the things I find interesting in this discussion is to look at how much extra one gets from hiring an employee in SKAT, so that here in the Danish Parliament we are simply also presented with some business cases in connection with the committee work here, where they say: If we hire so many employees in the recovery process and it could be in the control effort in another context we know that each of them would be able to raise so much and so many extra revenue for SKAT. Well, I think that would be a relevant discussion to take every time we discuss SKAT and when we discuss temporary legislation. How does the rapporteur feel about discussing business cases, for example? in connection with the examination of such a bill here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160223142010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223142012	Well, I probably have the attitude that just as relevant it is to discuss how many employees can and must be in SKAT, and how much they will be able to earn themselves home, just as relevant it is to discuss what the employees in SKAT should do. And one of the things that I think offends many of us in this matter is that one can get the impression that priority has been deliberately or unconsciously made in a way that makes there are incredibly many of the big fish, and thus very large amounts that have been evaded from SKAT, either as a result of errors or as a result of a lack of control. And then there's a lot of little fish that's been snatched. I think it will be the case that there is a limit to how far down the claims you have to go before it pays off. So we're going to write something off when it's small amounts it's all about. But, of course, there must be the employees who need to carry out proper controls, especially on the larger fish.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223142105	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. The next one on the platform is the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223142111	Thank you very much. And thank you for • I will choose to conclude the predominantly positive receipt of the bill. Of course, some questions have been raised, totally justified, and I shall try to answer some of them here later today in my ministerial speech, and otherwise the committee is invited to put them in writing and then we will answer them in writing. Some of them are a bit technical. Well, first of all, on the background to the proposal: as the debate here today has also reflected, unfortunately, it is an extraordinary situation that we find ourselves in, as a result of the fact that last September had to stop the recovery via this IT system, called one Common Recovery System, also called the EFI. The fact that we stopped that recovery because, in some cases, we were not legally justified makes us challenged in an effective recovery. We have one, I would say, huge task in building a new recovery system towards 2019. Achieving goals will require determined and sustained action. Of course, it is obvious to say: can you not just hire many people or more people for it, more warm hands in the SKAT? And I understand you are jumping to that point of view, but I also have to warn you that this is the view of the easy policy, first and foremost because if you had to carry out this recovery task of getting the between 75 and 80 billion. kr., which is currently due, in, so you would have to hire many hundreds, perhaps many thousands, to handle the manual task. If you wanted it and could find the money for it in the Finance Act, you would face the practical challenge of not just being able to take people off the street with the complicated legislation we have and ask them to be in charge of recovery, not least for the sake of citizens' legal certainty. Therefore, there is a natural limit to how far one can go along that path of just hiring more employees. You have to find the money, and you have to find the right employees. These are two challenges to which we feel we owe each other too. But that doesn't change the fact that we're supposed to how do we get it? The first step is to establish a temporary recovery system. To put it a little popular, you can't go back to tax workers with bullet frames. There's gonna have to be some kind of IT support. It will initially have only a limited functionality, and it will only be able to support the recovery of part of the requirements sent for recovery. The system will then gradually be extended to include more requirements and support more recovery activities. At the same time, manual recovery activities must be ensured to the extent possible. So instead of building a new big IT project, which can go wrong, you start in small by building a temporary IT support like this with one block on top of the other and then you have a foundation that allows you to get more IT-supported recovery over the years. But it's going to take many years with much more manual recovery than what we had previously thought we should have. The legislative proposal before us today therefore ensures the necessary flexibility so that we can take one step at a time, and that is what we are going to do, that is to say to take one step at a time, so that the system can only be built on when the foundations and bricks that have already been laid can carry the next stage. That is what, I think, is called agile development in an IT jargon. The draft law must be seen in the context of the legislation which Parliament unanimously adopted in November, and I would like to acknowledge this for the Council of Ministers, which ensures that, while the IT systems are being built up, there is no further unintentional limitation of claims during recovery. In the course of the hearing, therefore, the draft law has been submitted to the hearing and, moreover, the question has again been raised here today as to whether it cannot be opened up to municipalities and municipal utilities, which could be water companies, as I think Mr. Martin Lidegaards mentioned, can have access to even recovering debts. On this point I would like to say that I understand very well in general that municipalities and other claimants would like to have recovered the debts that are not being paid. That is why it is also a proposal that I have listened to and which I would like to look at. But I do so in cooperation with the National Association of Municipalities and the National Association of Municipalities, which I have invited to a meeting of the Ministry of Taxation, because I cannot, and the government cannot, make 98 different solutions for the municipalities, even if it might be desirable. There is, of course, and you can see that in the daily press, one municipality that somewhere would like to have the opportunity for one thing, another municipality wants something else. There we need to make an overall solution for the municipalities, which means that we will have a solution that the municipalities can all live with, but which does not make use of resources to build 98 different models for this recovery legislation. I hope and believe that we can achieve this through a good dialogue with the National Association of Municipalities. Either the state can see whether it can buy these claims at the market value that can now be reached, or it can be considered through legislation to give the municipalities a greater role in the recovery task. I am in favour of looking at both, but provided that this is what the municipalities need. I say this in this way because the boring news is that, even though the municipalities take up a lot of space, because they do not get the money in and lack it in the treasury, the municipal part of what is due is the smallest. That's between 2.5 and 3.5 billion. kr. Perhaps it has become a little more ■ when the debt is not recovered effectively, the debt increases continuously. But it's out of a total claim of this 75 billion. kr., maybe close to 80 billion. kr., which is the claim of the state. So if we use all our powers to solve the problem of municipalities, we will not solve the state's problem. We must do both, and that means that not everyone will be fully satisfied, including all municipalities. However, I have said earlier and would also like to state from the Chair of Parliament that I am in favour of looking at whether the problem of the municipalities can be solved. And I will therefore discuss this with the National Association of Municipalities. Finally, I also think it is worth mentioning that, in addition to the elements relating to the temporary system, we are proposing a number of clarifications and adjustments to ensure a clear and unambiguous legal basis. This applies, among other things, to: in relation to the significant number of set-offs carried out by SKAT each year. I think that was some of it, too, sir. Martin Lidegaard mentioned about party hearing. As a tax minister who has put legal certainty very high on my political agenda, I would be worried if this were something new. But it's not. SKAT has been setting off without party consultation for a number of years. What we are doing here is clarifying the legislation, so it is quite clear what the legislation is. But what is planned for April is what has also been done in previous years, i.e. a set-off without prior consultation of the parties. I believe that this can be done in terms of legal certainty, as long as it is a matter of money that people owe. They are then set against what would otherwise be repaid, for example. be in excess tax, child support or a number of other things. But if it were something new, I would certainly understand the concern. But it's not. Finally, let me stress that the draft law is absolutely essential and therefore a key element in the construction of a new recovery system and thus also a crucial prerequisite for effective recovery. Basically, it is neither right nor right that those who pay what they owe to the public should pay for those who do not pay their debts. That is why we need effective recovery. I can reply very briefly to some of the questions that have been asked. I'm sorry, sir. Rune Lund's question about employees. I've got a feeling that Mr. Knox... Rune Lund may have one question for me here after my rapporteur's speech, and then we can take that discussion further. You can choose to take the view that people can only be recruited, but you run into the fact that you have to find funding for the people you want to hire, and nobody out there has the skills we need. That's also why with the great upgrading of the recovery area, as the understanding circle behind the SKAT and SKAT out of the crisis and the government decided in the autumn you hire those people over the next 2 years, i.e. 2016 and 2017, if I'm not very wrong. For it takes a little time to get them trained and get them started with the manual recovery. I am also pleased that everyone agrees that we need an IT support system. We must then ensure that it is a system that actually works, and that is, of course, the learning from the EFI. A star war project was built there, which has cost enormously many tax dollars to build, and what we have to say has now turned out to be an impossible task, among other things. because the legislation is not at all digitised. It simply cannot be energized. So if we're going to do IT support for the recovery mission, and we have to do that, then we also have to simplify the legislation, and that's one of the things we're going to get to in the next assembly in the autumn, where there's going to be a dialogue with this comprehension circle around the SKAT out of the crisis... about what it's for some simplifications you can imagine doing. There will also be a fundamental balance between the need for simple legislation, the need for legal certainty, the need for effective recovery, the need to find the right way forward, and I trust that we can do so together. In relation to the question of the Data Protection Agency and what they write in the hearing answer, it is also one of the things I have asked myself, and I think we should answer that in writing. As I understand it, this is to a greater extent a less legal discussion than a substantive disagreement in what is proposed in the draft law. But I think we should answer that in writing, and I can say that as a minister I take consultation answers from the Data Protection Agency quite seriously, because I think we need to have control of not only the IT systems but also the safety of it. Then there is the question raised by the Social Democrat rapporteur about the change in the area of complaints. There it is quite rightly understood by Mr. Jeppe Bruus, that the change that is being proposed is not about weakening the debtor's legal certainty. On the contrary, it is a question of ensuring that citizens receive as appropriate a complaint procedure as possible. If SKAT considers that a debtor is not entitled to his appeal, the appeal must be forwarded to the Tax Appeal Board, which then takes a decision. But in the first place the complaint must be sent to SKAT, where SKAT will then look at it. If complaints are successful, then it's sort of solved, you might say. If complaints are not upheld, it will automatically be passed on to the Tax Appeals Board. I can also inform you that if SKAT only partially supports the debtor, the debtor will have the opportunity to inform SKAT that the complaint is maintained, and then SKAT will have to forward the complaint to the Tax Appeal Board for a decision there. That is why I believe that this adjustment of the system of complaints in the area of recovery is fully justifiable in terms of legal certainty. That was a slightly longer explanation for a technical proposal, by the way. However, it is also important for me, as Minister, to stress the importance of the fact that, if we are to have effective recovery, it requires us to make some decisions where some of them are also difficult decisions. I am pleased and would like to acknowledge that a large majority in the Danish Parliament declares itself willing and ready to do so also some of the parties that are not in this circle of understanding about SKAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223143326	There are two brief comments, first from Mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223143331	I can tell the tax minister, as the tax minister is also well aware, that we on the Enhedslisten are very happy to take part in the clean-up work in relation to the situation in SKAT. But I also think it is important that, when we have that discussion, we discuss how we do it best. For example, when I get there... I can read in the press, and when I talk to the professional organizations, I hear that they are experiencing that, for example. pupils employed in the field of recovery, after an end of their career, cannot get a job in the field of recovery, while transferring people from control to recovery, then I think there is a problem. Then there are not enough resources to hire the people who want to work and who can work at SKAT today. So my point is a little: Well, let us vacuum the labour market for people who can work in the SKAT, and let us devote the resources to it in order to help raise the SKAT again. And, of course, this does not rule out the possibility of system support or the possibility of digitalisation. That's the way you do it. It is also the right way to build the systems by making the small pieces at a time. However, is it the Minister's view that in the current situation it is necessary to provide more resources to SKAT, or has the SKAT out of the crisis-- where the budget in 2016 is lower than 2015 reached the right level?
ParlaMint-DK_20160223143450	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223143453	Well, I'm not ruling out anything. I think that's what I said when I introduced theskat out of the crisis. The funds and resources we allocate are about the two specific cases that were: fraud in the refund of dividend tax and in the area of recovery, where one is acutely in need. There you do some things, add new resources, new employees to carry out those tasks. However, there are other areas where there may be a need to look at whether the resources and the personnel available are sufficient. I am not a tax minister who says that it would be irresponsible to give more resources to SKAT, and you can run an efficient tax administration with the resources and staff available. Changes in both employee composition are needed and additional resources may also be needed. I think we will get to that in 2016, only as a result of some of the new IT systems that need to be built. Therefore, we leave 2016 with a framework that is higher than it was in 2015. But I'm not so concerned about whether the frame is bigger or less than the year before. I am concerned that SKAT uses the resources available to it in the best possible way and that it has the resources needed to carry out the task of returning SKAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223143602	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223143605	We have to see how much resources are coming to tax. After all, we also have the discussion on L 99, which is about adapting to the EU Customs Code, where the administrative costs will be between 1 billion. and 1.5 billion. kr., and no account has yet been given of where that money will come from. And if you do it the way you usually do it in SKAT, then it is money that has to be found through internal efficiency improvements. And we have seen that model disastrous for the last 11 years. However, in relation to hiring more people, how will the Minister feel about us discussing how business cases can be a starting point for hiring more people in SKAT in connection with the committee work on this bill and, in general terms, also discussing how business cases can be a starting point for hiring more people in SKAT? In other words, we are going to have a discussion about how many people can be employed, while at the same time it is going to be a good business for the Treasury.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223143648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223143650	Well, I'm not putting any strings on the Parliament's Tax Committee. And in response to Mr. Rune Lund's previous question, i.e. the question of students who are not hired, I would say that I am not specifically aware of that. I have noted that in general, and not just in the area of taxation, it is not everything that the daily press and the media have got right to, so there can be a good explanation for this. But Mr. After all, Rune Lund and the Tax Committee have the opportunity to ask what they think should be asked, and then, as a minister, I have to answer as best I can. In relation to business cases, I can only say that I think I have answered Mr. Rune Lund with an example of a business case made by DOR, i.e. the Economic Council, which shows that it is not necessarily clear that there is a business case by simply hiring more tax workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223143735	The next brief remark is to Mr. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223143738	Thank you to the Minister for Taxation for resolving some of the issues that have been raised. I now have a few further questions for the Minister. The first is that it may well be that 2 billion. kr. is not very much out of the small 80 billion. kr., which SKAT has lost. However, it is a great deal of money for the municipalities, which have been subject by the government to an additional re-priority contribution and which are currently beating themselves in the lurch because it is beginning to really hurt core welfare services. That is a great deal of money for the municipalities, and I would like to hear the Minister there: when can we expect clarification? For every week, there will be new claims that will not be recovered. So I understand that the municipalities are a little impatient. I think it is fine that you want a comprehensive solution with the KL. But it is the Minister who sits at the table and can call, and it is the Minister who is responsible. When is something gonna happen in this case? For the time being, it has been months since nothing happened. That is the first question. Then I come to the second question. I have to be absolutely sure that I heard the Minister correctly. I mean, the reason you want this authority not to do party consultation, if you step down child and youth benefits, is that you haven't had the legal basis before, but you have done it anyway, or how is that supposed to be understood? If you have had a practice that has not been provided for, do you not have a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20160223143853	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223143856	I believe that the legal discussion has been about whether the legal basis that has been used has been expressed precisely enough. There has been a discussion on this and that is why it is now explicitly stated what the legal basis is. As I understand it, it has not been the assessment that SKAT has done something illegal in this area, but there has been a desire that legislation should provide a more precise and explicit legal basis for it. And most of all, I regard that as such a legal discussion. But if Mr. Martin Lidegaard would like a precise answer to that, I am sure we can deliver it. I am just saying in all silence that this is something that SKAT has done for a number of years, and from a layman's point of view I do not think it is unreasonable that if you owe money to SKAT and have to have paid any residual tax or child benefit or anything else, there is a set-off. If you are unhappy with that set-off, you can complain about it, as I said. In fact, as I understand it, not many people have done this in the past years, and even fewer have been successful in their complaints. That is why I think it is a non-existent problem that we are discussing here today. But, of course, we're looking at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223144004	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223144006	Thank you. Yes, but I would be glad that you want to be completely on the safe side, so that it is not, when you feel the need to change the law, because you are afraid that you have behaved in violation of the law. But I also had another question, which was about how long the municipalities should wait for clarification and when the minister intends to stop, it can be said that the bleeding that continues week by week and where the minister does not get anything done for the municipalities. The debt is increasing and the losses of the municipalities are increasing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223144036	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223144038	Yes, I'm sorry, I got caught up in the last question, and I'm sorry about that. Martin Lidegaard, but I shall answer it now. I have had a meeting with the National Association of Municipalities, and I have asked for the chair of the National Association of Municipalities to come to the Ministry of Taxation as soon as possible, so that we can find out how to solve this, also because the reports I receive from the municipalities, both via the daily press and also in letters, go in some different directions, and I would like to make a solution where at least the majority of the municipalities are satisfied. I don't think you can do it all. You cannot buy both claims and at the same time give them a greater role in recovery. There you have to choose which way to go, and hopefully in the spring we will be able to clarify with the National Association of Municipalities which way we should go, and then to provide a solution to the problem which, as I fully agree with Mr. Martin Lidegaard has to be lifted both for the state, but also for the municipalities, and may have consequences for the liquidity of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223144128	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160223144147	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 24 February 2016, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
