ParlaMint-DK_20161027100019	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for the Environment and Food (Esben Lunde Larsen): Bill no. L 45 (Modification of the retention period for group-housed horses, change of business requirements, change of fold requirements and access to fold and introduction of exemption from certain horse handling requirements). Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing (Inger Støjberg): Bill no. L 46 (Proposal for a law on citizenship). Minister for Health and the Elderly (Sophi Løhde): Bill no. L 47 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Authorisation of Healthcare Professionals and the Law on a Trade-Managed Registration Scheme for Alternative Careers). Rune Lund (EL) and Pernille Skipper (EL): Motion for a resolution No. B 21 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of a separate paragraph in the Criminal Code concerning advice on serious tax evasion). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20161027100105	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 4 by Nas Khader (KF), Nick Hækkerup (S), Michael Aastrup Jensen (V), Nikolaj Villumsen (EL), Mette Bock (LA), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Martin Lidegaard (RV) and Holger K. Nielsen (SF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 82 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 23 (DF). Proposal for adoption No V 4 has been adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: 5 of Marie Krarup (DF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027100229	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027100250	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted [and is now being sent to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate].
ParlaMint-DK_20161027100327	I would like to ask you to remain calm in the Chamber while you go out. I'm gonna ask for a little more silence in the Chamber! The debate is open, and that is first Mr President. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party. Now there is a rapporteur, and I really should like to thank him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027100422	Thank you. The bill before us today is a change in several laws. I will start with the most important, and this is the part of the proposal that follows on from the now debated agricultural package, which earlier this year caused division in the so-called blue bloc, and which probably almost triggered a parliamentary election. That part of the bill concerns the demarcation of the watercourses to be included in Denmark's water plans. The agreement on the agricultural package shows that all watercourses forming part of the river basin management plans with an catchment area of less than 10 km 2 The Government will also strengthen local involvement by allowing the Minister to commit the municipalities of the country to carry out this task in cooperation with water councils. In the past, the Government has even very clearly expressed the wish that the number of watercourses covered by the Danish water plans should be reduced. That is why I assume that this is the basis for the draft law. Denmark's watercourses are regularly under discussion here in the Danish Parliament, most recently when the Liberal Alliance in April in this Parliament held an extended arm for Sustainable Agriculture in a campaign against the watercourses. On that occasion, the Liberal Alliance tabled a motion for a resolution to improve agricultural drainage conditions, as it was called, but it was so extremely a proposal that even the Left had to say stop half and then vote against the proposal. On the whole, it is a rather mottled picture that emerges from the blue bloc's view of watercourses, because after the negotiations on the agricultural package, the Conservative People's Party boasted that they had actually saved all of the approx. 19,000 km of watercourses currently included in the water plans. This is in stark contrast to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Liberal Alliance earlier this year. In the social democracy we mean the same as we did at the time. We believe that a balance needs to be struck between considerations of the environment and considerations of growth and employment and, in this context, a balance between watering considerations and environmental considerations. As the government's proposal stands at the moment, it is difficult to say whether that balance can actually be found within the framework of this proposal. The government cannot say anything about the criteria which must be the basis for the new categorization. I look forward, of course, to the government's knowledge of this, and I look forward to gaining insight into how the criteria have been drawn up when they are ready. At the same time, we in the Social Democratic Party also want to shed light on some of the uncertainties highlighted by KL in its response to the consultation on the task that municipalities and watercourses should undertake in the future. If I should briefly turn my attention to the other elements of the proposal, I would like to say that, in addition to the abovementioned amendment, some definitions are specified in the Water Planning Act, which provides for a more correct implementation of the Migration Directive. The proposal also adds to Danish legislation that, according to the directive on environmental quality requirements, it will be possible to justify exceeding environmental quality standards by the fact that pollution comes from a source outside Denmark. Thus, the Minister will be able to lay down, under specified conditions, rules that exceedance of environmental quality standards is due to pollution from other countries. In this context, the Social Democratic Party would like the parliamentary assembly in the committee work to be drilled out, what exactly it will be important, and then, of course, what the attitude towards it will be in the European Union. Finally, the bill relates to the relocation of state jobs, as the relocation also included a division of the Danish Nature Agency, where a newly created management board for water and nature management takes over some of the Danish Nature Agency's tasks. Roughly speaking, the Danish Nature Agency will manage forest and natural areas with headquarters in Randbøl, while the Danish Water and Nature Management Board with headquarters in Copenhagen will receive ministerial service, policy development and monitoring as its primary tasks. We in the Social Democratic Party support this, but we wonder why the proposal is being dealt with in conjunction with the other proposals contained in L 34. So, in the light of the above, the Social Democratic Party cannot support those parts of the proposal relating to the agricultural package. We look forward to clarifying the environmental impact of the proposal and becoming more aware of the impact the proposal will have on water plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027100940	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, and first it is Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027100946	Thank you for that, and thank the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party for a fine speech by the rapporteur. After all, it is now a law on water planning that we are discussing today and not, as the rapporteur has said several times, the law on watercourses. However, I am glad that the rapporteur was very awake earlier this year and has discovered that the Liberal Alliance has also tabled a motion for a resolution on precisely the river basin law. In this context, I would like to know whether the Social Democrats do not recognise that the KL has actually expressed a desire to amend the river basin law precisely because there are problems with the drainage of water.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027101026	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027101027	Well, I think it's very clear because we both, I'm sure, listened to the debate in April when Mr. Carsten Bach himself had a suggestion in the hall We are not afraid of that in the Social Democratic Party either. It's not an art to change the law. The art is to change it in such a way as to strike the right balance between environmental considerations and drainage, i.e. business considerations. I just have to say that if you put what I've heard, sir... Carsten Bach and Left express earlier, up against it, like for example. The Conservative People's Party has expressed my doubts as to what will become of the law we are discussing today. For some, almost all watercourses that are in an catchment area of less than 10 km2 will have been removed from the plans, and others believe that everyone should be preserved in this way. It is against this background that I say that here we have a first reading without being able to know what the criteria should be for the new appointment, and that makes it very difficult. But you can make a change to the law. We just want to ensure the right balance, and we cannot take a position on that because the information is not available to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027101138	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027101140	Thank you. After all, the resolution tabled earlier this year by the Liberal Alliance was precisely about ensuring a balance between the various considerations. However, as far as I have been whispering in my ear, the rapporteur of the Left may have thought of putting forward a proposal, in cooperation with the government, to amend the law on watercourses. I would like to know whether the Social Democratic Party really is opposed to the future water plans being built on the correct classification of watercourses and that this classification is motivated by local authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027101215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027101217	Thank you. I would say that I think it would be a good thing if the Left rapporteur would do so in cooperation with the Left Minister. I think that is a good starting point. And then, of course, we will have to take the debate when the time comes. But the problem in the bill we are dealing with, and that is the problem Mr. Carsten Bach has already put three questions to the draft law before the first reading, where we have tried to ask what criteria it is that should then indicate this correct classification. And that cannot be disclosed at this stage. It is not available and we can also understand that it needs to be developed more closely in the conciliation circle behind the agricultural package. So these things together do that we don't feel convinced that there's gonna be a proper classification out of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027101303	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027101306	I simply miss the Social Democrats' justification for being against the bill. What we do now is that we look at the small streams in Denmark, and then we make an assessment of which of them have a natural, ecological significance and which do not have a natural, ecological significance, because it is just these quite equal channels that are created artificially in order to simply water down the fields. It is difficult for me to see what the Socialists are opposed to. When we negotiated the agricultural package, the Socialists objected that this would cost some money. Is that the problem? Or how can we be opposed to looking at preserving all the watercourses that have a natural significance, but that we do not have equally strict environmental requirements when the farmer himself has gone out into his field and has dug a new canal that has not emerged naturally, but only aims to ensure that there are no floods in the fields? We have ensured that this will not affect nature. We think this is important. But what's the problem with this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027101413	Thank you. We must keep to our speaking time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027101416	Thank you. There will also be another round where we can continue. But the problem in this debate is that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov can't guarantee it. For as it says in the answer to question 1 to Bill L 34: At this stage, the criteria referred to are therefore those which are to be the basis for the new classification under development by Aarhus University, and when the criteria are ready, the Minister expects to review them with the parties behind the agreement. So, by the way, this is not something that the Social Democratic Party will have an influence on. But there is no one who knows whether Mr. Rasmus Jarlov's desire to preserve the watercourses of natural value or sustainable agriculture's desire from the consultations that all watercourses with catchment areas below 10 km2 should be removed from the river basin plans. I think that will be a rather loose basis to stand on when it comes to negotiating this. And for those of us who are not part of the conciliation that will help to establish the criteria, it is almost impossible to vote in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027101517	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027101519	Well, I can guarantee that it will not be a wish to take all watercourses with an catchment area below 10 km2 out of the waterplans. I can guarantee that 100%, because there will not be a majority for that. I also think you should have a deep mistrust of Aarhus University if you think there are some criteria that should be very hostile to the environment. Then we will take action against it. Mr. Simon Kollerup my word.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027101547	Sir. Simon Kollerup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027101549	But I think that is positive. I just have to return that ball, that is, that we should have mistrust of Aarhus University. We do not have that in the Social Democratic Party. But it is very clear that it will be the parties behind the agreement that will have to confirm these criteria, and there is perhaps a little more fragility in my confidence in relation to the influences that I can see coming from, for example. Sustainable Agriculture into that circle of parties. However, I take the rapporteur at his word: he is part of a conciliation party and therefore also a kind of veto holder, which reinforces my security a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027101622	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027101630	Thank you for that, President. As the Socialist rapporteur has explained, this is a proposal which basically seems to me to make it simple: we are giving some money to get people out into the field and to see what the reality is. We have a lot of watercourses around Denmark. There are watercourses that have an environmental significance, an ecological importance that we must take care of, and we must continue to take care of them. But we also know that in the course of time there has been a digging of fields; we know that ditches have been dug, or what we should call them, which we in the local community know is for drainage and has nothing to do with natural streams. It must, of course, continue to be an opportunity to drain fields, meadows, whatever it may be, and that is actually what this proposal is all about: that we get an overview of what we need to be careful and what we do not need to be quite so careful about. Therefore local water councils are being set up, because it is out in Denmark, out in the real world, that people know what is going on. Therefore, money is also provided for the municipalities to have professional knowledge and for there to be cooperation with the water councils, so that we all have an overview of where we have to make an effort, an environmental effort and where it is that we do not have to do anything. This also means that we are not wasting money on making an effort that is completely indifferent, and I think that is quite important. In addition to this, the proposal is that when you divide the Danish Nature Agency into two agencies, the Danish Nature Agency and the Danish Nature Agency, there are, of course, some technical boundaries that need to be changed. Then there is also a linguistically more correct implementation of the Water Framework Directive and implementation of parts of the directive that have not been implemented in the past. When I mention it, it may be because sometimes, when we read these proposals, we have an agreement that the Danish People's Party has in connection with the agricultural package, precisely around the watercourses, but we may not have so much agreement on water framework directives. So sometimes apples and pears are mixed in these bills. It bothers me a little, and I have some questions at least. I also think that some powers are given to the Minister, whom I and the Danish People's Party do not necessarily think is in order. It is a matter of authorization that, for example, if you do not have the right to vote in local elections, you will have the right to vote in local elections. from other countries pollute so that our watercourses in Denmark cannot achieve a good condition, but then the minister can be authorized to say that it is o.k. I think it would be very nice if we had such a debate in the Chamber, because if nothing else could we perhaps press the neighbouring countries that are pigging more than we think are in order to get the debate and perhaps push them a little bit. So I'm not quite sure we're particularly happy with that authorization. But I hope I may have misunderstood a little. But of course the Minister can clarify that for me. Then there is another authority. I was about to say that one should probably be a little professional, because it says that this is an authorisation in which the Minister can allow the injection of carbon dioxide streams for storage purposes into geological formations. Now I am a politician and not a professional geek, so I have to admit that I am completely blank when I read it. But I also hope that the Minister can explain to me what it means and what it actually is for which he is given a mandate. Because I think that's quite important. I would like to say straight away that, of course, we support the proposal in the Danish People's Party. We ourselves have been part of the agricultural and food package. We think it's a good thing that we're getting a very sure clarification of these streams, so that we know what to do about it and what we don't have to do about it. So a positive angle, definitely.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027102044	There are questions. First, it's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027102048	It is a good thing that there are water councils going out and looking at reality, but the very skewed thing in this bill is that it only allows you to take out what might be interesting was if you had a bill that also allowed you to go the other way. I would imagine that there are some streams out there that are fully or partially dug and that in time there has been a state of nature that is worth preserving. The possibility that it might go that way is then not in this bill. I think that's a shame. I think this bill is too one-sided. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it would not be an advantage if there were more possibilities for the water bodies to go out and make that specific assessment so that not only one way could be taken, but also, in a sense, an opportunity to go out and assess some nature and say: this has a value that needs to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027102147	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027102149	As I see it, it is the case that there is a record of a lot of watercourses that these water councils and municipalities have to go out and look at. Then it is true that you have the opportunity to take some. But if the watercourses are already in the overview that the footmen are going to have to look at, and you don't take them out, then they're still inside. So I don't quite understand the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027102215	Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027102217	Perhaps the problem is that the criteria referred to by Aarhus University are in the process of drawing up are not known. So it is a little strange that we should be dealing here with a legislative proposal in which we do not really know the criteria that are being drawn up. Why is it that this law has such a haste? Why is this bill not being tabled at a time when there are criteria?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027102238	Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027102239	As I understand it, the criteria are being developed by Aarhus University, among others. It is also the legal basis for the formation of the water bodies that can be set up. That's what the water supplies have to deal with when they're out and watchful. We would very much like the water councils to be set up around 1 January. That is also where the law comes into force. That is why it is important that we get started now, because the sooner, the better. I'm not so worried about the professional criteria that you set at Aarhus University, but in my optics it's a legal basis for the Water Councils to be established.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027102311	Thank you. And then it's Mrs. Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027102314	I would like to continue where the rapporteur left off, because it is very important to know what is meant by professionalism. Is that what the researchers say, is that what the municipality says, is that what the Ministry says, or is that what politicians ultimately think is professionalism in the Danish People's Party's optics?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027102335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027102336	I've been sitting in here for so many years, I know that professionalism is a nice word to use. But there are experts who can pronounce one, and there are experts who can pronounce the other. So professionalism, yes, what is it? I guess it's a question of having some knowledge. But no matter what knowledge you have and what professionalism you have, you also have different attitudes. Whatever the case, it is ultimately us politicians who are responsible for the decisions that are being taken here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027102406	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027102408	So we have to understand that it is not biology, it is not economics that decides it here; it is the Danish People's Party's rapporteur who decides whether a watercourse in Denmark is so important and so large a natural gem for Denmark that it must be preserved and protected. It is therefore the Danish People's Party that decides; there are no such professional criteria that you can lean on.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027102426	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027102428	One can say that the academic criteria come with the drafting that Aarhus University is making, about what is watercourses, what is worthy of conservation and what is not. But in the end, regardless of how we turn and turn it around, and then Mrs Ida Auken must say that it is the Danish People's Party that decides it, and it would be nice if we were 90 members, because then I could do it all alone. After all, it will always be us politicians who are the target of the decision that will be taken in this Parliament, no matter what, and whatever professional expertise we have been given as the basis for the decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027102507	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027102521	Thank you. As can be seen from the title of the bill here, it says that it is about the involvement of municipalities and water councils in the demarcation of watercourses in river basin plans and the qualification of the designation of artificial and highly modified watercourses as well as new organisation in the Ministry of the Environment and Food. That's what this bill is about. Of course, we need to take good care of our watercourses and at the same time ensure drainage from the fields, and that the water can also run away from roads and urban areas, with which there have also been examples of problems. That is why the watercourses also have to ensure the right effort in the right places and make different bets in the different situations that there are, precisely because the watercourses are different. In order to do so, the streams must of course be properly classified so that the stakes can be made where they make sense. In this situation, and with this bill, there will be seen on streams that have an catchment area of less than 10 km2. In connection with the examination of this draft law on the involvement of municipalities and water councils in the demarcation of watercourses, of course, the Left is in favour of the bill. After all, it is a partial implementation of the food and agriculture package that we agreed in blue camp back in December 2015. After all, it is a package that Danish Agriculture and Food needs, partly on top of some hard years and partly on top of some, we can say unequal conditions of competition. In the same context, it is a good thing that we can also get things off the watercourses in this situation, that is to say watercourses, which then have an catchment area of less than 10 km2. This bill should include, inter alia: ensure that municipalities and water councils are involved in the work on the demarcation of watercourses in the river basin management plans. They must be involved in the process of qualifying the designation of artificial and highly modified watercourses which do not belong in the river basin plans. The aim of the draft law is that local authorities and water councils, on the basis of their local knowledge and specific inspections, can help to assess the so-called small watercourses, which have an catchment area of less than the 10 km2 mentioned. They shall help to assess which of these watercourses should be further examined in order to classify them as highly modified, artificial or natural watercourses respectively. It has long been necessary, so to speak, to clean up the designation of watercourses in the river basin plans. The right professional criteria must be the basis for the designation of the watercourses, and the municipalities and water bodies can help to ensure this. And so it has already been mentioned in the debate here that the professional criteria of universities are being looked at so that there will be some guidelines to follow. The municipalities and the water councils have also contributed to the work on the water plans back in 2014, and it seems that the Left was a very good process, which we have been inspired by, also in relation to this bill. It is only good that we can get the knowledge that we have locally, very close, so to say, to those who have local knowledge in relation to these watercourses. In addition to the part of the bill which deals with the river basin management plans, the bill contains an update of Danish legislation as a consequence of EU legislation, and minor linguistic adjustments. Here are among others. the new Water and Nature Management Board is incorporated into the legislation and linguistic corrections are made to the legislation. This is an update of Danish legislation so that it includes all parts of the Water Framework Directive and the corrections resulting from the Environmental Requirements Directive. On that basis, of course, the Left will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027102923	There is a brief comment from Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027102929	Perhaps it is just such an expectation vote with the rapporteur. So, like Conservatives, does the rapporteur expect only a few and small streams to be taken out? Or is it hoped that a great many streams out of these with an catchment area of less than 10 km2 will be taken out?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027102946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027102947	We have a completely professional, sober approach to it, because once there has been one, you might say, confusion about what some streams are and whether they are now classified correctly, then it is the right approach that we get them reviewed and classified correctly and thus can make the right effort in the right places. There is therefore no answer at this stage to how many kilometres and so on. The right professional approach to this is the one that we are setting up here. Let's justify these professional criteria and get things through, and then it goes without saying how they should be properly classified so that we can make the right effort in the right places.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027103024	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027103025	That's good to hear. For then we must expect the rapporteur to disagree completely with Sustainable Agriculture, which believes that all watercourses with an catchment area of less than 10 km2 should have been taken out and that the rapporteur is right, very pleased that we have got many of these important watercourses with a catchment area of less than 10 km2 in the water plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027103041	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027103043	I will stick to what we agreed in the Agriculture and Food Agreement back in December, almost a year ago. The questioner himself had the pleasure of participating in part of the negotiation process. So I'm dealing with the deal we've made, and this is part of the coinage of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027103101	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027103111	In the Enhedslisten we are pleased that former Minister for the Environment and Food Eva Kjer Hansen's crusade against the hated watercourses, as she referred to the smaller Danish streams as, is not yet fully implemented, and that Eva Kjer Hansen's announcement to take watercourses that have landed below 10 km2 out of the river basin plans no longer stands for believers. The smaller streams are extremely important both for nature and in terms of being able to withstand climate change. But even if the government no longer lays the groundwork for a massacre on the smaller streams, we are far from safe in relation to whether the draft law we are discussing today can provide adequate protection for the Danish watercourses. The Enhedslisten believes that the one-sided sign of the exercise at the heart of the draft law, namely that only watercourses should be removed from the water plans, is wrong. There should also be the possibility to add watercourses that meet the criteria of the water plans, including: some of the forgotten watercourses, which are currently not included, but which have significant natural and environmental significance. This possibility is not provided for in the present draft law, which is why we are talking about a clear deterioration in watercourse efforts in our optics. The Enhedslisten is concerned that the bill will take out many of the smaller streams of river basin plans. This will throw away part of many years of great work to ensure our water quality and our fish stocks. In the long term, this may have significance, not only for our fresh waters, but also for our marine environment, which could be adversely affected by this bill. The Enhedslisten also finds it very worrying that the draft law provides for water councils to make proposals for reductions in watercourse efforts carried over from the first water plan period to the second water plan period, for example. whose financial interests are at odds. This means that the water bodies are given the opportunity to cancel already adopted interventions. We believe that this can only contribute to the deterioration of watercourse efforts. That is why the Enhedslisten will vote against the proposal in its present form. We have a number of questions to put to the committee and hope that this will help to bring the legislative proposal into line.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027103346	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027103352	I think it is a very dogmatic approach that Enhedslisten has here, namely that one is opposed to any watercourse being removed from the river basin plans. We have a political agreement. I hope the Enhedslisten will confirm that the watercourses that have natural and ecological significance must continue to be included in the water plans. Then I do not think it is fair to say that this agreement reduces the aquatic environment when it is merely a matter of watercourses which the professionals consider are not of natural importance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027103434	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027103436	But we cannot know exactly what the criteria that are being drawn up will be. And that is one of the weaknesses of this bill, namely that we do not know what criteria it is. In addition, there is the bias in the bill that if you go out and find that there is more natural value out there, you cannot go the other way. It is only registered watercourses that can be removed, and thus it can thus help to reduce environmental performance. Why not be completely open and say: there could also be something out there that actually needs to be dealt with in a different way? That is not the draft law, and that is why it is so one-sided. Well, why not make it wider? That is what I hope we can have a dialogue on, and I hope we can come up with amendments to this bill so that it can be corrected.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027103526	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027103527	So, you cannot know whether tomorrow's conciliation circle will decide to pump lead into all our streams or do all sorts of other terrible things. But that's just not what's in this bill. The draft law states that a professional assessment must be carried out and that we have a political agreement that watercourses which have a natural significance cannot be removed from the water plans. What is stated in our political agreement is clear, and I can guarantee that if something else happens, then Conservatives will have to make sure that they shout and prevent it. For it is an agreement that significant natural watercourses will continue to be included in the water plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027103606	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027103607	Well, it's fine that the Conservatives want to offer some environmental guarantees. But it would be easier to relate to it if it were the case that we had the criteria that Aarhus University is preparing. It would then be easier to say whether these are some guarantees that are worth something or whether they are just something that is said in a political process. Well, so far, there's a majority to do this, and there's Enhedslisten just not in that majority. If something had been done that was more nuanced, there could be a possibility that it might be a wider circle of parties that would adopt a legislative proposal that concerns our watercourses.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027103638	Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027103642	Thank you. I would just like to hear the Enhedslisten's rapporteur: what would it be like for us to have done so before the third reading that we can add watercourses if we now find a watercourse out there that is undiscovered, has an environmental, ecological and natural value and that needs to be included? If we change it so that we can do it, and then have the criteria from Aarhus University, will the Enhedslisten vote in favour if the criteria are good enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027103713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027103715	If there is a legislative proposal that is not satisfied, and there is a committee procedure that will bring about a number of improvements, then I am fully in favour of voting in favour of it. This happened, for example, when we had the proposal for a directive on genetically modified crops. It was a proposal to give the Minister an authorisation to approve new genetically modified crops, and it ended up with a unanimous Parliament saying in fact: we have to deal with this in a different way. So I am very open to an improvement in a legislative proposal in a committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027103745	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027103746	Well, I think that is positive, because then you are also open to change. Well, maybe there's an undiscovered stream out there. I doubt it, but it could be, and if it is a stream that has an impact on the environment and nature, then of course it has to be included, and then it has to be taken care of. So it makes sense. And, of course, I hope that Aarhus University will have completed their criteria before the third reading, and that Enhedslisten will then also be able to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027103812	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027103814	Well, I look forward to reading the criteria, and if there are any improvements to a bill that Enhedslisten can agree with the Danish People's Party and a majority in the Parliamentary Assembly, then we are quite open to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027103827	Then there are no more questions. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027103837	The bill here is right to the right of the Liberal Alliance. In fact, it is virtually our policy that is now being implemented following the agreement on the food and agriculture package. We in the Liberal Alliance believe that a re-evaluation of watercourses with a water catchment area of less than 10 km2 makes sense in order to find out whether it is really a natural watercourse with ecological potential or whether it is an actual drainage channel with a specific purpose, namely drainage. It must, of course, be a prerequisite for future work on the river basin management plans that there is certainty and agreement that the classification of the watercourses involved is correct. In this context, it should also be noted that the guide to the EU Water Framework Directive merely prescribes the need for watercourses with catchments of more than 10 km2 to be included in the plans. So there will be a certain amount of over-implementation when and if some of these small streams are included in the plans anyway. The Water Councils are the decentralized link in this context. They have rubber boots locally and know how the history of the streams has been and how the condition is here and now. The forthcoming work therefore consists in determining locally rather than centrally the degree of over-implementation of the Water Framework Directive. The call from this to the Minister is, however, that a piece of work should now be carried out, where a very clear and unambiguous user-oriented material is produced from the so-called Water Council package, so that 98 deep plates are not invented in the municipalities here, with a great waste of time, and we also avoid a number of bad examples, where comparable watercourses are classified differently from municipality to municipality. Finally, I would just like to thank the Minister for bringing forward the bill, which the Liberal Alliance naturally supports, but also to say that I and the Liberal Alliance are very much looking forward to the new initiative by the Left to revise the river basin law itself, which has been announced by the rapporteur from the Left, who is unfortunately not here, so that we can also resolve some of the challenges we see with floods around us.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104133	Thank you. Then there are a few brief comments. Sir. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104138	Thank you. Knowing the close relationship between the Liberal Alliance and sustainable agriculture, it is just as obvious to ask the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur whether the rapporteur agrees with the message that Sustainable Agriculture delivers in their response to the consultation, namely that the watercourses that have an catchment area of less than 10 km2 should actually be removed from the river basin plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104203	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104204	I myself and the Liberal Alliance agree with the message contained in the draft law that, in order to overimplement the EU Water Framework Directive, it should take place in a local dialogue, among other things. with the Water Council, local authorities, river owners and other stakeholders. That is what the Liberal Alliance agrees with.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104228	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104230	Thank you. I take this as an expression of the fact that we do not agree with sustainable agriculture that all watercourses must be removed. Then I would like to ask whether the Liberal Alliance shares the view of the Danish People's Party, which was expressed in the Enhedslisten question round, namely that if the criteria are correct, more watercourses can also be taken into the river basin plans. It is also a message that the Danish Sports Fishermen's Association delivers in the consultation answers, that is to say that there are some so-called forgotten streams. So I hear that the Danish People's Party says that if the criteria are right, you can actually bring more people into the river basin plans. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104308	It is, in fact, a very good question that the Social Democrat rapporteur is asking. As I also said in my speech, there is some over-implementation here if you choose a solution locally and include these small or smaller streams. If we come to the conclusion locally and in agreement that a river, which is potentially not already included in the river basin plans, should actually be, I will certainly not be standing here in the Folketing and blocking that it would be possible to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104347	Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104349	This is very exciting, because apparently it will be a political decision whether or not a river should be included. And when one party expects that no one will be taken out of 10 km2's hinterland, and the other party expects that virtually nobody will be taken with it, then it will be a really beautiful process that comes out of this. I would just like to ask the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance again, because the rapporteur says that this is essentially their policy. So is it LA's policy that all streams under 10 km2 should be included in the plans and that some can be taken out if they do not meet these criteria?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104422	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104423	Yes, the policy of the Liberal Alliance, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, is, in fact, what the draft law is saying, namely that if and if you choose to overimplement the EU Water Framework Directive, it must be done in agreement, and it must be a decision that has to be taken locally. As I also expressed to Mr. Simon Kollerup just now, I do not want to force an overimplementation over the heads of local authorities and river owners, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104455	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104457	But then it must of course be very much the rapporteur's concern that the answers to the consultation note clearly state that the municipalities can now give LA the authority to leave it alone, and that is clearly LA's policy. We're gonna have to get all 10 km2 in. I'm really happy about that, and then you can choose to do it out there. Apparently, it's LA's policy. It is fine to clarify it, but then you are just a long way from sustainable agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104522	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104524	I do not share the questioner's interpretation in that account. I believe that something has been proposed here, which is also the subject of the draft law, namely an authorisation for municipalities to set up water councils in cooperation with the Water Councils and, in cooperation with the Water Councils, to decide to what extent the EU Water Framework Directive should be over-implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104551	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104554	It is of course interesting if something can come of some water supplies putting on the rubber boots and going out and looking at what is really out there. Should I understand that if it turns out that there are forgotten streams that should be included in the planning, then the Liberal Alliance is in favour of looking at whether or not the legislative text should be amended in committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104628	Of course, the Liberal Alliance is always open to what, by the way, when the questioner was on the floor, I could understand that Enhedslisten is also facing improvements in legislative proposals in connection with committee work. However, I think I know the public procedures and the administration of watercourses well enough to say that it would be a great surprise to me if there were to be a watercourse out there in the Danish landscape that is not already included in the river basin plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104706	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104709	Well, then, I would like to know if the rapporteur sees it as an advantage if we can get the criteria that Aarhus University is currently drawing up in committee, which might lead us to see more clearly what this draft law will bring and to see more clearly whether it should be improved in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104731	In fact, I would like to give Mr. Simon Kollerup was right in the criticism he made earlier. In fact, I understand that those parties which are not part of the agreement on the food and agriculture package may have little difficulty in accepting this bill, because there are precisely no criteria here. I think that if I weren't one of the parties to the agreement, I might have a problem with that too. I would then hope that these criteria can be available before the third reading, as was also demonstrated by the communication between Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti earlier. I would say, however, that this should not prevent the legislative proposal from being adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104808	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104812	I just want to ask whether the Liberal Alliance is aware that if you overthrow the government, the agricultural package will fall to the ground.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104821	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104823	Thank you for an excellent question from the Conservative People's Party. It is, of course, in a wider political context that this question is asked, I would say. However, I am of the opinion that there are so many positive elements in the political agreement on the food and agriculture package that even a party such as the Social Democratic Party will, in the end, be able to see the benefits rather than perhaps some of the disadvantages that the Social Democratic Party has put forward during the last year's debate. So I am of the opinion that although the Liberal Alliance in other political and wider contexts should have distrust of the current government, it will not actually have any significant impact on the agreement on the food and agriculture package.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104916	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104918	I must say that I do not share that view of the Socialist Group. If there is one political agreement against which the whole left has been opposed over the last year, then that is probably the agricultural package. So to think that the agreement adopted by a narrow majority of one mandate, consisting solely of the bourgeois parties, will survive if we get the red majority that the polls are currently saying we will get if the Liberal Alliance overthrows the government, I think is a bit optimistic.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104947	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027104948	That is, of course, the assessment of the Conservative People's Party, and I fully agree with it. For the Liberal Alliance is actually a very optimistic party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027105003	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027105011	The alternative cannot support the draft law because it will most likely contribute to the deterioration of the aquatic environment. The small river basins are also nature, and I share the concerns expressed in the consultation answers that the extraction of watercourses with catchment areas of less than 10 km2 will exempt many smaller watercourses which are essential to the overall water quality. It is the Free Air Council and the Danish Sports Fishermen's Association that have expressed these concerns. I have then wondered why there is no consultation answer from the Danish Nature Conservation Association, which is usually very involved in this work. It has then become apparent that they have not received the hearing, and I would like to hear from the Minister whether or not there has been a mistake. I have, of course, contacted the Danish Nature Conservation Association and, as I mention, they have confirmed that they are in line with the Free Air Council and the Danish Sports Fishermen's Association. They're worried about the aquatic environment in relation to this bill, and they don't want to participate in water councils if what it's suggesting is just a big cut-off exercise of smaller streams that are of great importance to the overall aquatic environment. I am also surprised that new criteria for watercourses will be invented here. After all, there are clear criteria in the Water Framework Directive and, as such, there is no need for new criteria. There are guides from the Danish Nature Agency which have worked well, and in reality the risk is that new criteria may end up being at odds with the criteria that lie in the directive itself. So it will be very exciting to see what criteria we end up with, and I share the concern of many of the previous rapporteurs that we should vote on something that we really do not really know what is, because those criteria will only be presented at a later stage. I would like to mention that we have no objection in principle to changing the structure of the regimes. A new management board for water and nature management may be fine, but I may be a little concerned about whether it will be primarily a board that sees streams as the diversion channels that some actors focus on are the main function of watercourses. It would be problematic if it were to be the general approach. So the alternative cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027105312	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027105322	In Denmark we have had a very sensible approach to watercourses for many years. We have seen that they have two purposes. One is to make nature, fish, plants, life, and the other is to water down the fields and transport water around. This balance, of course, has been maintained locally for many years with our river regulations. And this balance, there are some that want to move on all the time, and it's worth looking at why it's that you have such a big interest in moving on this balance. Many have seen their fields flooded. There are farmers who have experienced that they did not think they could get the water out of the fields. I think it's worth looking at the facts in this area. It is actually the case that 70,000 hectares of land in Denmark have done what is called sitting down. This means that the carbon has been burned off, which means that the field cannot actually be properly watered down and there will be more flooded areas. It is, of course, very bad for them that it has happened to, but it happens because you have grown the land. You have grown places where the carbon has been burned, you have grown to the brinks of the watercourses, so where the streams might be like this What is my concern is that this is a discussion which is about getting somebody else to pay their bills. It is a discussion that is ultimately about not paying for the fact that some of your land has been lost because the cracks have settled. Furthermore, we can hear from agriculture itself that there are 400,000 hectares of land that are being flooded because the drains up in the field are not in proper condition. They're worn out, and they're stopped. Is it also a bill that the municipality and society have to pay? I don't think so. So there is an economic discussion here right now, which is about how much society has to pay for bills from other people, and I just want it to be honest and open on the agenda so that there are no sneaky bills to the taxpayers around. The second discussion is, of course, the equally important debate on nature. And it is true that there are streams that are completely straight and flat and practically do not move. Nor are they worth much watering down, and you can't keep digging them deeper if there's no fall. Then you can dig and dig and dig, and the water stays standing. On the other hand, you can remove all the nature that might come into some streams if you start digging in the wrong places. That is why it is extremely important what criteria we are adopting today, and I think it is strange to stand here in the Chamber and to thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and, as such, also the rapporteur of LA for admitting that we are giving a huge mandate today, which we do not know what is concealing. If you are not in the agreement, then it is very difficult to vote in favour of such a proposal. In fact, it can be said that the principles of this bill we put in my time in the Ministry of the Environment. That's when we made the water supplies in my time. That is where we started to involve locally and say: can we have a talk about this so that it should not always be a conflict? That is why, of course, I would be very sorry if the DN stepped out the water resources, because we really do not need to have this watercourse conflict permanently; we need to talk. What we saw also said in my time was that if a stream doesn't make any environmental or economic sense to get in a good condition, then you can take it out. So it is already there, and now you are doing a new great therapeutic exercise, which will in the first place be a very bureaucratic exercise which may give you a little better night's sleep. I can see from sustainable agricultural consultation that it does not stay with those who get better night sleep. At least they think it's a huge defeat, I think you didn't get this 10 km2 out completely. Now we are going to go through everything again according to criteria which, if they are reasonable and if they are environmentally OK, we would be able to vote in favour. So I thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and hope that together we can try to bring these criteria forward before the law is voted through so that we know what we are saying yes to. Because if they are reasonable and if you, and this was the second point that the Danish People's Party took up, can take back some streams, that is, if some have gone out, which you might have had in the time of the counties. My responsibility, if some have gone out into the time of the counties, which money has been spent on getting in a good condition where fish have arrived, where there is actually life, then we will be open to this approach. Well, let's do that exercise one more time. However, it is important to be able to do so on the basis of professional criteria which are not the will of a municipality or some who say they do not like it. It will have to be on the basis of some natural and environmental criteria. So in the first place we're not printing a blank cheque on the cost of the environment or the economy if we can get closer to what this law actually contains. And then we are willing to discuss it and thank the Danish People's Party for that kindness.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027105823	There are a few brief comments. Sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027105826	Thank you. After all, this case is about local involvement, influence and knowledge, so we will have the best decisions possible. I was also able to understand from the rapporteur that the rapporteur was a little proud to have been involved in the introduction of water councils and such things himself. Then it may well be that the rapporteur includes a lot of things that have nothing to do with the matter, but leave it at that. But how would the rapporteur actually feel about voting against this bill at the end of the day? For then we shall vote against what we ourselves have just stood and expressed pride in having been involved in introducing at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027105901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027105902	Now I do not know which criteria will be used, so if Mr. Erling Bonnesen can tell me whether it will be a drop of 0.1° or 0,01°, it will be nice to know, because it is quite crucial for what kind of streams we are talking about. If he can tell me what the biological criteria will be, if he will tell me who will pay the bills, if a municipality has to go and start cleaning up all sorts of watercourses, because the drains on the fields are stuffed, then you have to pay the bill again and pass it on to the citizens of the community. Erling Bonnesen will tell me what it says on this blank cheque that you are about to print today, what it costs the Danes, how much it is going to hurt nature, then it may be that I will vote in favour of an approach that I have actually introduced myself. And it is an approach where you involve local people and where you only do something that makes environmental and economic sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027105950	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027105952	That is a very surprising answer. I actually thought that Mrs Ida Auken had confidence in our universities and the various professional foundations, they are, in a lot of situations, preparing for us politicians in a wide range of areas and then taking a position on the basis of which we take a position. I also think I have heard Mrs Ida Auken and the various parties of which she has been a member many times, saying that it must be professionally based, that it must be supported by all the knowledge available. That's exactly what we're doing. We are simply asking for a legal basis in order to gain local influence, among other things. with regard to water supplies. Does the rapporteur agree that the bill has been cut to the bone in the sense that we should have local influence with the involvement of water councils and municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027110044	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027110046	Now the rapporteur of the Left must excuse me, but the Left has a long history of not least in this area taking up the profession and interpreting it, roughly like a certain master reading the Bible. So forgive me if I do not have the great confidence in the Left's approach to professionalism. Not least, when one understands from the parties to the agreement that they expect that it has nothing to do with Aarhus University, but only with what one locally agrees on. Well, maybe the Left needs to talk to LA, 'cause I can see sir. Carsten Bach down in the hall, and he must sit and get all sweaty if it is, as Mr. Erling Bonnesen says that it is only Aarhus University that decides. That's good to know. Now we know today that the Left is putting its head on the block, that it will be the university that decides this, and not politicians, according to what they think.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027110134	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027110137	Well, thank you to the rapporteur for having qualified the debate on these missing criteria. Because it is true that we may well be in a situation where there are some problems out there because there may be large agricultural areas with sinks that are not in order. There are, in concrete terms, very large areas where the topsoil has been burned off. And this can result in a different local situation over time. I think it's interesting where you've been measuring. Among other things, they do. done at Simested Å, where a company has been out measuring and has found out that more than 13 years have actually disappeared 1 cm topsoil a year, and this obviously has a consequence in terms of flooding. So I think it might be really interesting to come up with these criteria before we have to deal with the third legislative proposal. Because it might well be that criteria would be drawn up that are nuanced and take environmental considerations into account. And there it looks exciting that there could be a majority around the government that would be better than the bill we have here today. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether there is any concrete knowledge to be gained in order to qualify for further debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027110243	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027110244	But I would like to thank the rapporteur. I think that there is openness here to the clear expression that has come from, among other things. The Danish People's Party, that one would like to have the criteria before the law is voted through. And yes, there's really, really much knowledge in this area. This is an area that we have been working on for 30 to 40 years. This is an area in which we know that agriculture also has figures on how much of the land is in direct difficulty because of the sinks in the field. This is an area in which we know a great deal about the ecological quality of each river. We've been looking into them a lot of times, and now we're gonna do it one more time. And this is an exercise we can agree to, if there is also an opportunity to take back some if it turns out that we have spent money, time and effort on some streams out there in the time of the counties, which is actually in a good condition. I do not know whether this is another knowledge that the rapporteur is fishing for, but then he can ask again.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027110339	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027110340	I also think that the aspect of whether there is a bill coming after a possible legislative adoption is interesting. Does this actually involve high costs in some particular municipalities? I think that would also be interesting to have clarified and qualified through a committee procedure. And it is, of course, a question of what criteria it is that are being laid down for these criteria to be implemented in a certain way. So the economic aspect also seems to me to be important to discuss further, although the main aim in the matter is the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027110414	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027110416	I fully agree with that, and there we have a long story where we know that some people want the municipality to clean up their watercourses. And it would be nice if the municipality just came and swept for you, but that is where we say: it is they who make the money from it that must ensure that the watercourses are cleaned up. It cannot be right that it is taxpayers who have to pay to save land from which they have burned themselves. There we just have to have an honest talk with each other and ask: can we help? I would like to help agriculture make set-aside in some places, for example. makes sense to make it into nature. And I would say that is the exercise we were doing, but which has been completely ruined by an agricultural package with a very, very one-sided approach to things.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027110500	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. The next is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027110515	With the bill, the government wants to go further than agreed between the bourgeois parties behind the agricultural package as far as water planning in the municipalities is concerned. The Left overimplements a political agreement to now use an expression which the Left often uses and which the Liberal Alliance has also used several times today. Instead of agreeing with the municipalities how to solve the agreed task of assessing the objective of watercourses, the government has chosen a solution which means that the municipalities are obliged to solve the task. You can argue for and against, but the government goes further. The Minister must also be authorised to impose obligations on municipalities in other areas of water planning, in other words, in principle anything other than what has been agreed in the agricultural package. It gets wrapped up nicely in that it is an improvement in local involvement. In fact, it is a question of obliging municipalities to give agriculture more space by removing the demand for high water quality in a number of small streams. There is no possibility that municipalities can choose to correct the current classification so that a river will have higher environmental requirements than those currently in force. The real reason for the bill must be that the government would like to give the Minister this very broad authorisation. For the implementation of this part of the agricultural package does not necessarily require a change of law, but that must mean that the government believes that it cannot be trusted in the municipalities and does not believe that the government is able to negotiate an agreement with the KL or what? The other elements of the bill do not refer to the agricultural package, but to those who have witnessed the government's agricultural policy over the last year and a half and perhaps have also become a little cautious and suspicious of government proposals which affect agriculture and the environment at the same time. It can well be seen as a proposal that agriculture will welcome, but which will not at the same time lead to environmental improvements, even though the comments indicate that the intention of the proposals is not to change the legal situation. Our main appeal in the SF is therefore this open authorisation to the Minister, which I mentioned, but we will have the background for the other elements in the committee's proceedings through questions. Here we would like to know why the government wants to relax the environmental quality requirements for waters affected by other countries and whether this will only apply to environmentally hazardous substances or to potentially polluting substances, such as: nitrogen. Another question is: where should the law be amended so that only EU requirements for environmental quality apply? Should we completely renounce national action and simply take over environmental quality standards, which are the lowest average of Polish, Greek, French, German and others' demands? What does that mean, for example? in practice, that the wording is changed from the water supply is affected to the water supply is so influenced? The need to change the wording is immediately puzzled. I would like a more detailed explanation of the reasons for this. In other words, we have a large number of questions. Like the other rapporteurs, we are very curious to know what the criteria are. It will therefore be difficult to give a favourable opinion on this proposal in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027110910	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027110913	Thank you. It has often and many times been the case that SF has said in different contexts that you have to listen to the local voice and get local knowledge involved. I can understand that no longer applies, because the essence of what I hear the rapporteur says is that it is bad that this bill is brought forward, as is the case with this bill, which then asks for the involvement of these local water councils and municipalities. Why this change at SF that you will no longer take account of the local recording?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027110943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027110945	Well, we would really like to listen to local recordings, but it's on a very uncertain basis that we decide these things. As I said, there are no criteria for what these assessments should be based on, and since we are not part of the conciliation circle, we cannot support certain criteria that we do not yet know.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027111005	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027111006	Well, this isn't about us being in a process of approving criteria now. This is about saying OK. to the local, if I may say co-play, in other words get the local knowledge involved. That's what this is about. This is not a procedure or a political treatment of these criteria, because they are only being drawn up. These are, of course, some professional things that we have had in the past in the debate. This is the sole authorisation for water councils and municipalities to make their local recordings. I simply do not understand that the SF is against this, but it is so new tones.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027111040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027111042	So it can be said that the Left tends to say: trust the municipalities now, they are the ones who know the local area. And so I would often say that, but why not in relation to the question you are asking? Because, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, the Left will have a broad authority for the Minister to be able to impose new tasks on municipalities in the field of water planning for the benefit of agriculture, and therefore for more tasks than those agreed in the agricultural package.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027111111	We must remember to follow the Rules of Procedure so that we do not use direct indictments in this Chamber. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the next rapporteur is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027111130	Thank you. Of course, the Conservative People's Party supports the bill, which is part of the agreement on the agricultural package and deals with a specific element in which we have had a very great interest. The whole debate here on the environment and agriculture has proved to be the most sensitive debate in this assembly of parliaments to my surprise in fact. But we have two camps that really hate each other. We have environmentalists on the one hand and then we have parts of agriculture on the other. There is a deep distrust between the two camps, which makes political decisions and proposals difficult to implement, because every little detail is met with distrust and a belief that the other side may have bad intentions about what needs to be implemented. It is very unique, fortunately for it, and it creates a difficult climate to make decisions in. In the middle of it all, the Conservative People's Party has some seats that are essential to ensuring that both agriculture and the environment are taken into account. We are of the opinion that we must take good care of our nature, which is the best we have. We also take the view that environmental policy must be about making an impact out of the rules that are being made. It should not be about having a tough policy just to have it. So when agriculture raises some objections to the environmental rules, pointing out that some rules have been adopted that do nothing good for nature, but bother agriculture, then we have the pragmatic attitude that we are looking at whether we can accommodate them so that farmers can get better without compromising our nature. We think that is what we have done with this bill that we are debating today. This means that the watercourses which have a natural value will continue to be guaranteed the same high environmental protection as they currently have in the water plans. However, those watercourses which do not have a natural value because they are entirely straight and flat canals which farmers themselves have dug in their own fields should not be subject to strict environmental protection because they have no environmental impact. So it is not naturally formed streams, but artificially dug streams, which are dug to ensure a drainage of the fields. I really think that if you have a pragmatic approach to this issue, you have to agree with the view that we must, of course, protect those watercourses that have a natural value, but that there is no reason to impose very strict requirements on how watercourses should be maintained when they do not have a natural value. We must then ensure that the political agreement that we have made and where it is guaranteed that this will not affect the environment is respected. And there I can guarantee that the Conservative People's Party will continue to monitor that the criteria that will be based on professional recommendations from Aarhus University will, of course, ensure what is contained in the political agreement. It is only when you have a great deal of mistrust about the implementation of this political agreement, because you simply do not trust the other party, that you can interpret everything into this and have the impression that we are now trying to destroy it for nature. We are not, and I would like to guarantee, as I said, that the Conservative People's Party will ensure that it does not happen either. I do not think it is necessary to say that, and I do not think we will need to take that role, because I do not suspect that the other bourgeois parties have that agenda either. But I can only speak for myself and say that we will certainly ensure that nature is taken into account in the implementation of this bill. This has been an important impression for us when we made the agricultural package. There was a starting point which was that farmers came and complained that they thought that there were very many watercourses that were unnecessarily covered by the environmental rules. Whether it's right or not, we'll find out when they're under review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027111545	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are some comments, first from Mr. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027111549	Thank you for one, I think, balanced but also very clear speech by the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. I am a little interested in understanding what kind of guarantee you are issuing. Because I hear it this way, and that is what I would ask the rapporteur to confirm that if there is any natural value in a watercourse, the Conservative People's Party will be the guarantor that the watercourses will continue to be included in the water plans, thus guaranteeing the high level of effort and protection that this entails, i.e. if there is any natural value at all. Is that understood by me?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027111625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027111625-2	It is true that this is what the political agreement says, and thereby both the political agreement and our participation in the majority are a guarantee that watercourses will not be taken out, which has a natural value.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027111641	Here you go, sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027111642	Yes, but what the political agreement says is that even watercourses which may have limited ecological potential, i.e. a limited natural value, can actually be withdrawn with the political agreement. That is why I am a little interested in how to understand the political agreement with the Conservative People's Party's guarantee today. In other words, the agreement states that even watercourses with limited ecological potential can go out as a result of the new criteria, but the rapporteur says that if there is only the smallest natural value in a watercourse, it must of course be ensured that it is included. I think it is important to make that distinction clear to the many people who go up in our watercourses.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027111723	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027111724	Of course, we will base ourselves on the professional criteria that are being presented, because when, in other words, the assessment is that there is an ecological potential of importance in a watercourse. So it is clear that there is a limit, because any puddle may have some kind of natural significance. You can always argue for that. It is clear that Mr. Simon Kollerup can find an example of how mosquito larvae have hatched here and that they have had an impact on some animal in the area, so it cannot be said that even the smallest natural significance would mean that a stream should be included in the water plans. Because I think that, for any collection of water, there is some way to argue that it has a natural significance. But I think we know what the intention is with this, and it is to ensure that those streams where there is a rich natural life, where there may be fish and frogs, etc., continue to have natural protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027111831	Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027111834	I would like to hear whether the rapporteur will support what the Danish People's Party has also spoken about today, in other words that watercourses could be brought in and that we would like to have the criteria before the third reading so that a broad agreement can be reached in the Danish Parliament on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027111849	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027111850	In other words, the bill has now been knitted together in such a way that we have to go through the watercourses which are currently covered by the water plans, to see if there are any of them that do not have a natural significance and thus do not have to have the very same degree of environmental protection. And it's clear that when it's done that way, it means you can take something out and don't put anything in, and we need to talk about that. I was just over and asked the Minister about the fact that we suddenly discover that there are some extra watercourses that we have not been aware of. So I do not think there are many of them; we have quite well managed our country, and we know what streams we have in Denmark, so I doubt that suddenly some completely new streams are coming up. But if they do, they must, of course, be able to get into the water plans, and there I have to admit that I do not know on a stand-by basis the process of how to ensure that they enter. But of course it must be the case that something can also be taken into the water plans. In relation to having the criteria clear: if it is practically possible and does not delay the process, we agree that it would be a good idea to have them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027111957	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027111959	So if we table an amendment which clearly ensures that watercourses can also be taken in if you find some, then the Conservative People's Party will vote for it. It can then be said that it will be a helping hand both to the sports fishermen out there and to the DN, who may have sat and annoyed that there were some streams that went out when we went from counties to municipalities. It was a great bureaucratic exercise, and some may have gone out. I think that is a very good commitment that the Conservatives are making here today, and on the part of the Radicals we would certainly like to ensure that it is an opportunity in the law that watercourses can also be taken in if they have a high natural value. And I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027112033	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027112034	Well, thank you. In principle, of course, it is natural that if we discover that there are some watercourses which do not have the environmental protection that they are going to have, they should of course also be able to be re-entered. I cannot promise that, regardless of how the Radicals draft such an amendment, we will vote in favour of it, but in principle I agree that it should of course be the case that watercourses can also be taken in.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027112058	Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027112100	Thank you. And many thanks to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party for a rapporteur's speech, which demonstrates, I think, a pragmatic approach, and the rapporteur also uses the word pragmatically. So I actually see that we are fairly in line, i.e. the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance, in this respect too, in relation to the intentions which, as I hear the rapporteur, are very much in line with what I myself, as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance in this area, think this is a matter. I do, however, miss a little bit in the rapporteur's speech from the Conservative People's Party, namely a reference to the Water Councils. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur how high the Conservative People's Party really is emphasising the local anchoring and qualification required in relation to river classification.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027112156	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027112158	Well, that is very important, and that is the whole basic idea of the system we have today with the water plans, so that the water bodies are the ones that have the greatest local knowledge of the situation, and we have no mistrust that people locally should not be able to do that task. In other words, we believe that local farmers living in the area will be taken into account, but also that they have a desire to take good care of their own local environment. So, as a starting point, we have quite a lot of faith in the water bodies.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027112231	Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027112233	I am, of course, very pleased to hear that the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party also attaches great importance to local anchoring. I would like the rapporteur to then assess the weighting in relation to researchers and experts from, among others. DCE, Aarhus University. What is most important in the Conservative People's Party: Expert assessments from DCE or local anchoring?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027112258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027112259	It's a difficult question. Depends on what this is about. In other words, we do not think that we should be able to ignore solid research locally, but, on the other hand, we believe that we should be involved locally in how the criteria on which we may agree should be interpreted. But it is not the case that local people are allowed to say that they do not believe that the environment is important or that they do not believe that agriculture is important. We generally decide what the criteria are for watercourses to be inside or outside of this, and then it must also be observed locally. But decisions need to be made based on the knowledge you have about local conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027112343	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027112346	In his introduction, the rapporteur said that we are in a situation where people hate each other in relation to agriculture and the environment. I do not agree with the recital. I believe that what we are experiencing and have experienced over the last year is polarisation. There are a lot of people who really want something more and who take care of the environment and groundwater and nature, and then they are up against an agriculture that prioritises its productivity. And I don't think it's hateful. I find that there is a rather open dialogue out there, where you try to start from scratch and say: we want something else with our agricultural land. We want something else with those 2.4 million. ha grown out there. So I do not agree with that premise. But because there's the increased interest, there's also interest in this bill. I understand that there is scepticism about this when there is a bill from the government, and I think that the debate we have had today is something that is moving in the right direction. And I am glad that we can have an open process in committee, where the Conservative rapporteur is also open to changes in this draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027112453	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027112453-2	We must have that, and we look forward to it. We are also looking forward to getting Enhedslisten's qualified input into this bill and how we handle the watercourses. I have to say in relation to this debate that there are some debates that are more excited than others. I can mention the debate on cash benefits, the debate on foreigners and the debate on gender equality. And so I would also like to mention the environmental debate in Denmark as an example of a very, very heated debate, where I think the parties are talking very violently and harshly to each other and where there really is distrust of the intentions of the other party. It is not everyone who feels that way, but there is a large grouping both in the environmental camp which has no faith whatsoever in agriculture and in agriculture which has no faith whatsoever in environmentalists. And that's a shame.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027112547	Here you go, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027112549	Yes, but when you see that a Parliament is dealing with a draft law on nitrogen standards with a manipulated bottom line, and you see that there is a cattle exemption that has not really been dealt with and has not really been landed, and when you see that there are various EU directives that Denmark is about to fail to comply with, then I understand that some of the people who give priority to environmental interests come out in their shoes. But I would like to point out that the extent of the debate we have in society is greater than the extent of the debate among those who are crying out loudest. Something is happening out there, and that also means that when we in the Danish Parliament have to deal with proposals relating to the environment, we have to listen very carefully.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027112629	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027112631	Well, I don't disagree with that. Nor do I disagree with the fact that there have been some things going on in this area that we think have been uncleanly trodden, and that is where we, together with other parties, have also helped to put our foot down. So I don't know if there's so much more to say about it. I want us to be able to find pragmatic solutions where we take very extensive account of our environment and take good care of it, but also that it does not go into anything about the fact that we just want to bother farmers with rules that have no environmental significance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027112706	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Then it's the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027112716	Thank you for that, President. In the government, we want to strengthen local involvement in water planning. We want the river basin management plans to be locally anchored and based on a solid professional basis. It is therefore also sad to hear the controversy that Mrs Ida Auken is launching from the platform, because Mrs Ida Auken knows very well what this is about. It's about giving authority. It's not about criteria. It's not about everything else. It is not about plugging in field drains and large bills to be paid by a society. This is exactly what Mrs Ida Auken himself carried out: local involvement. It is a bit sad to see an opposition that does not have the capacity to debate a bill without polemicising against the bourgeois parties, whether they are now in the pocket of one or the other, whether they leave large bills to one or the other when it comes to getting the right watercourses in. Then the rapporteurs of both the Social Democrats and the Radical Left also argue that the criteria are not present and say that nothing is known. But is that what this is about? No, it's not. This is about getting some criteria. The worst thing is, of course, that Mrs Ida Auken is better informed, even if she is against better knowledge, because Mrs Ida Auken knows very well how such processes take place. What is so fantastic about doing this is that, after all, you have a good bourgeois majority in favour of a proposal that ensures that you can make water councils locally, but also ensure that we get the right watercourses in and get the right effort. What is so shameful is that both the Socialists and the Radicals know very well that efforts must be made for the watercourses that are classified naturally. We have asked Aarhus University to make criteria for this, and it is quite amazing that two parties that pay tribute to the principle of local involvement do not want to vote for this. With the food and agriculture package of December 2015, the Government agreed with the parties to the agreement that the local knowledge of the Water Councils should be brought into play in relation to the demarcation of the watercourses covered by the river basin management plans. The municipalities, the people who stay in or live in and by nature, have a great knowledge of Denmark's watercourses. We must make much more use of this knowledge than we have done so far. That is why we are also discussing a bill in which we will have a good setup. The municipalities and water bodies have already contributed back in 2014 to the programme of action of the river basin management plans. It was a success, but we believe that the potential is much greater, and there are many good forces out there just waiting to take hold. Both business and interest organisations have taken a positive view of this proposal. The plan is for municipalities and water councils to look into whether all watercourses in the river basin management plans with an catchment area of less than 10 km2 meet updated professional criteria for the demarcation of river basins. They shall also select watercourses which should be analysed in detail in order to assess whether they meet the conditions for being designated as artificial or highly modified. Finally, they must be able to comment on the existence of watercourse interventions which have continued from the first to the second planning period and which, for economic or environmental reasons, would not be appropriate. To this end, the Ministry of the Environment and Food will draw up a Water Council package, which will contain a guide describing the framework and guidelines for the task. In addition, an amendment to the Water Framework Directive derogating from the river basin management plan rule on action programmes to counter climate change through the injection of carbon dioxide streams into geological formations is being implemented. Finally, the draft law contains some minor adjustments to various laws which can be regarded as some for the sake of good order changes, and I will not give them any further words on the way today. We in the Ministry of the Environment and Food are prepared to give comprehensive answers to any questions that may be put to us during the committee procedure, but I would also like to say that we are not involved in a long controversy which has been raised by the rapporteurs who have spoken in this Chamber today. That's the job all too important for.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113122	Thank you to the Minister, and then there are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113128	Thank you. Every time the Minister complains about polemics, it is as if it always turns into polemics on the part of the Minister himself, and that is why we are witnessing such an awkward mud throwing when the Minister takes the floor. In the light of the criteria, as a number of parties have rightly asked questions and were told that they have not yet been established and are in preparation, etc. That is the way it must be understood when it is said that there is no reason to polemicise or question anything, that is to say because the professionalism of the university world will simply be taken into account. That is just the guarantee I am asking for, that is, that the criteria provided by DCE will not be adjusted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113223	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113224	This is a completely irrelevant issue for the legal treatment we have today. Because it's about whether we set up water councils and give authority. There is then another work going on on establishing criteria that have nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113239	Here you go, sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113241	I think that as a minister we should have had straw in our ears if, during this debate, we have not taken note of Parliament's concern about how many kilometres of watercourses will be taken out of the river basin plans as a result of this series of legislative proposals and the food and agriculture package that has been adopted. So I do not think the Minister is right about that. Then I would like to ask what the government will think of a possible amendment to this law, which might mean that you can also open up to take more watercourses into the river basin plans. It could, for example, be done. be the so-called forgotten watercourses that the Danish Sports Fishermen's Association has marked in their consultation response. Will such an amendment be looked at with positive interest on an equal footing with the Conservative People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113333	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113334	I am referring to the agreement reached between the bourgeois parties as a prerequisite for this in terms of river classification and the number of watercourses to which we relate. That is the starting point for the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113351	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113354	Thank you. I have three very specific questions for the Minister. After all, we have had a lot of talk here about the criteria that are being developed. How will the Minister ensure that the criteria that are being developed end up meeting the requirements and criteria of the directive, and what is the real reason why new criteria will be developed when we have the guidelines that lie here? The second question is whether there has been a mistake in the consultation process when an important party such as the Danish Nature Conservation Association has not received the consultation material and therefore has not had the opportunity to comment on it. In conclusion, I would like to say that I attached myself to No. 11 in the draft law, which says something about storing CO2 in the underground. What's this about, and what does that have to do with this? This does not look like a water framework directive. Is it something about CCS, i.e. allowing the storage of CO2 It may be just a technical detail, but I would like to hear the answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113507	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113508	To answer the question from behind, the fact that the government wants to ensure that the Water Framework Directive and other directives are properly transposed into Danish law, and that has something to do with the injection of CO2 When we become aware that there are directives that have not been implemented, we make sure that they are, and that is what we are doing now with this proposal, when we put in a legal basis that allows us to set conditions for the injection of CO2 So that is a fulfillment of that. I don't know about that question, sir. Christian Poll asks about the Danish Nature Conservation Association. - Sir, you can. Christian Poll put me in writing, and then I shall answer what is up and down in that matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113552	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113553	Thank you for the two answers, and the first was this with the criteria. Because there are already criteria in the directive and in the excellent guidance provided by the Danish Nature Agency to date. Why do we want to develop new criteria and how do we want to ensure that this is in line with the directive?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113614	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113615	Thank you. The work on nature and environmental aspects is constantly looking at what it is like in relation to directives. That is why the food and agriculture package has chosen to consider the criteria for this. I think that is quite natural. This can be seen on a regular basis in various areas. We have a directive obligation that we must, of course, live up to, and the criteria must also reflect that, and I have full confidence that Aarhus University, that is, DCE, will, of course, deliver.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113646	Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113649	Then I just have to get it right. In other words, the Minister takes the Aarhu criteria, regardless of what comes, and then it becomes the ones you drive, and that politically you will not get involved in it at all, for example. in a flat stream is 0.1 per thousand or 1 per thousand?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113703	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113705	Thank you. This is the kind of nonsense that Mrs Ida Auken raises so many of. For we will of course look at the recommendations that come from Aarhus University, just as all other politicians take a position on the criteria that are presented to us. That is what has been brought up in the food and agriculture package and, of course, the conciliation parties in the food and agriculture package will also look at those recommendations. Of course they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113730	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113731	I am surprised that the Minister always has such a great need to talk down to all the parties of the Folketing, but you have to go home and think about why you have. I was just asking you a question. Because we are going to vote here on a legislative proposal which gives the Minister authority on the basis of criteria that are not meant to change politically. And then the Minister wonders why we would like to see the criteria before we vote in favour. But surely we must understand that we, as the parties of the Folketing, do not just print a blank cheque for a conciliation circle on the basis of criteria which, moreover, we call for the right to change. I guess you have to have some understanding about that. That's politics. It's not a controversy, but it's just because we disagree on something.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113807	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113808	I do not speak down to the parties of the Folketing in any way. I am surprised, however, that, as former Minister for the Environment, we do not understand what kind of legislative proposal we are dealing with, which is therefore a legislative proposal which is about authorising water councils to be set up and that they must have more tasks. There must, of course, be criteria for this work, but what we are dealing with today is whether there should be water councils. It is therefore a repetition in relation to an exercise carried out by Mrs Ida Auken herself when she was sitting in the chair. And that's what's controversial. It's not politics, and it's not about talking down to anyone. It's about what we're actually discussing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113844	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113847	I think it would be good if the content were discussed. I have seen something similar in the past with regard to legislative proposals which were quite simple, for example. when we had the treatment of manure standards. It was a question of authorizing the Minister to lay down a number of fertiliser standards. After all, there was a debate and it was justified, and that matter is not over yet. Now we are dealing with another matter in which the Minister must be authorised, and I think it is quite natural that such matters should be discussed where a mandate should be delegated to a minister. I very much look forward to having a good committee procedure and perhaps getting some improvements to this bill. In this process, it is incredibly important that we get a look at the criteria that Aarhus University is preparing. It might be interesting to find out whether it is something better than the present, whether it is something that may need to be improved even more. These are the sort of processes that I think are exciting politically and not whether you talk down to each other or not. I really think that, until the Minister took the floor, we have had a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113952	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027113953	Well, I certainly think there has been a good debate too. There has just been a debate on all sorts of matters that do not concern the bill itself, and since it is the bill that we are discussing whether or not we should set up water councils, I think that is the debate we should have. If the parties of the Folketing so much want to discuss other matters with each other, one is certainly warmly welcome to do so, but the relationship with this legal procedure is whether authority is given to set up water councils. That is what is on today's agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027114021	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027114022	Yes, and in relation to the legislative proposal, it is then a question of what the water bodies can do, i.e. whether they can go out and find watercourses that have not been properly registered and then deal with it. That's part of it. Another part of the debate is, of course, these criteria, which are essential, and I do not think that should be neglected in view of the hour-long debate we have had here and which has taken place in a constructive way, I think. I very much look forward to having that committee dealt with and moving forward on the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027114049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027114050	I am certainly also looking forward to committee reading, and the Ministry of the Environment and Food will do everything we can to qualify that committee. What this is all about is whether or not we should have water councils, and that is what we are a number of parties concerned with doing, because we think it is important to have local involvement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027114110	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027114122	The debate is open. It's first, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027114144	The law we have to deal with here today, L 38, is about medicine and the pharmacies. These are areas which we in the Socialist Group attach great importance to because it is very much a question of patient safety. It is also about how our health services and access to medicines with all the elements that are now included in it work. In May of last year, in 2015, we adopted a law on modernising the pharmaceutical sector. It was a very long political process. There was very careful political treatment on this whole subject. The bill we are discussing here today, L 38, has two elements. This concerns the security structure of our pharmacies, and the second is the choice of over-the-counter medicines. First, I want to talk about the security structure of the pharmacies. An agreement was reached this spring between the Minister of Health and the Pharmacy Association. That was in June. The reason why the draft law had to be re-examined last year was that it was simply not possible to agree on the structure. It is very good, and we acknowledge from the Social Democratic side that the Minister for Health has found a solution which now means that there will be 50 pharmacies with guard arrangements around Denmark. There will be three different forms, A, B and C, and there will also be 24-hour pharmacies. This will provide a good geographical coverage. There will be greater uniformity, and because the regional emergency and emergency medical services have been taken into account, there will also be a good coherence. The economic framework is the same as was laid down in the law of last spring. That it is the Danish Medicines Agency that has to determine how the A-B and C guards should be in the future, we think that is a good way to do it. It is the case that pharmacists get their guard structure, their license, their task assigned for five years at a time. The scheme shall start on 1 January 2018. All in all, this is a fine way, it is a good compromise when it was not possible to get the system in place, which was adopted by a broad political majority last spring. So it immediately backs the Social Democracy. The second point in the draft law today is over-the-counter medicines in self-election. It has to be said here that it is a question of buying over-the-counter medicines, which are medicines that can be bought without a prescription being prescribed by the doctor. All these over-the-counters can be bought at the pharmacies today, but they can't be bought by choice. Self-choice means that the medicine is on the other side of the counter, and you have to activate your purchase by contacting the staff at the pharmacy. It is also the case that the Danish Medicines Agency has selected a few products that can be bought in the retail trade, and it is the case that if there are selected medicinal products in the retail trade, and that is where they are, they must be in locked cabinets. It is the Danish Medicines Agency which authorizes which preparations may be placed in the retail trade. The difference between retail and pharmacists is that in pharmacies there are professional staff who can advise and advise. They can provide citizens, buyers and users with information on how preparations work, what side effects they have, how they should be used. It can therefore be made clear that care must be taken when using the medicine. It is the chemists and pharmacists who carry out this task in the pharmacies. There are no professionally trained personnel in the retail trade. Then there is also a third place where you can buy over-the-counter medicine today. It's on the Internet. There is no direct possibility or obligation of advice, and yet there is. It is the case that, if pharmacists make use of internet sales, they must provide a chat option or telephone option. What we have to deal with is that you have around 550 pharmacies, branches and pharmacy sales across Denmark. The figure has been increasing since we made a change of law last spring. Many questions are asked in the hearings as to why there should be a choice of over-the-counter medicine in the retail trade. Why should there be a choice of over-the-counter medicines in the pharmacies? The Social Democrats are sceptical about this. There are really many sceptical consultation responses. Some say that the problem is that it will result in increased consumption, you will get impulse purchases, you will feel that medicine is more a common commodity, and it may compromise safety. It is Danske Patients, Elders Case, Consumer Council Think, The Pharmaceutical Board and others who have expressed this concern and scepticism. That is why we also believe what the Pharmaceutical Board is saying. Why should we have more choice, and who activates the need for it in Denmark? We believe that there must now be a process within the Committee on Health to take this scepticism seriously and have it discussed. That is why we in the Socialist Group will also take the initiative in committee to call some guests into the Agency to give a briefing on the advantages and disadvantages of self-determination. Finally, I would like to say to the Minister that I do not think I can see that an evaluation has been made of the legal complex as a whole. We also believe that this is a necessity to build into the legal complex here. We need to be aware of what negative experience there will be in a possible opt-in system. It has been said that we have a positive attitude from the Socialist side to the watch structure, but we are sceptical about retailing when it comes to self-determination. However, because there is professional advice and guidance in the pharmacies, we can understand and would like to see a test of self-choice in pharmacy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027114814	The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027114820	Thank you. In the film Love at first hick we meet the young man Viktor, who, after making a successful cure for the beautiful Anja, in a scene must buy the necessary protection, in case he should succeed in taking the relationship with Anja to the next step in a youth girlfriend relationship. However, this is a difficult task for young Viktor, as he is somewhat embarrassed to have to buy this protection. Instead he leaves the shop with Coronas and pastry alas, the poor poor thing. And he should have bought something that a young man might otherwise find some pride in needing. Imagine, then, that the poor Viktor had been in a less joyful situation than having courted the beautiful Anja and that he had saved himself a disease that he was not too proud of. That would hardly have made the situation at the counter easier or more fun for Viktor. Perhaps he would even have ended up leaving the store again with unfinished business and with Swissdrops and Schweppes instead of the antifungal cream he actually needed. With this bill, we make it a little easier for people like Viktor to overcome the sufferings that can be overcome with over-the-counter medicine. In fact, we in the Danish People's Party would like to go further and include several types of over-the-counter medicine that have otherwise been excluded from the bill. We are very aware of the dangers of poisoning and lack of guidance, but using attraps in the shops we believe that this challenge can be overcome so that the unfortunate citizen can read the table of contents and inform himself of prices without having to trumpet it in front of the neighbor and the priest, who might happen to be in the back of the queue. And when you reach the counter, you will then be given the proper preparation and can get the guidance needed for proper use. We will focus on this in the committee work on the part of the bill which deals with over-the-counter medicine. As regards the part relating to the watchkeeping system for pharmacies, we must state that we also support it. However, we believe that there are a few ambiguities, among others. on the application scheme, where it is not quite clear whether it is delivery for all hours of the day. We do not see the difference between having an urgent need for medicine at 1 p.m. 11:59 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. 00:01, why, of course, there should be no difference between the two times. But perhaps the Minister can clarify this. In addition, we would also like to see a draft on how the Minister ideally sees the distribution of watchdogs. In the Danish People's Party, we are keen to overcome the geographical inequality that unfortunately still affects our health services, which is why we also wonder why the national 24-hour pharmacy partout should be in Copenhagen. There may also be skilled pharmacists in the Kingdom who will be able to perform such a function. This seems to me to be most of all a Copenhagen affair, and we would also like to hear the Minister explaining the need for this. All in all, however, we welcome the draft law and look forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027115146	There are a few brief comments. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027115151	Thank you very much and thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I note that the rapporteur said that, in relation to self-election, the Danish People's Party would like to see even more medicinal products put into self-election. I would very much like the rapporteur to elaborate on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027115207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027115208	We are talking about over-the-counter medicines, which are reserved for pharmaceutical sales, where we believe that by putting attraps on the shelves, users can easily be informed of the products which will then be available. And you'll then with a note as you know it, when you buy a TV in Bilka, you'll be able to walk up to the box and say this is what you need. We don't see anything dangerous in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027115236	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027115239	I am sure that the rapporteur has also read the Agency for Medicinal Products and the Agency's evaluation and assessment of this area. And so I am surprised that the Danish People's Party goes so much further than what is the professional recommendation. For the Pharmaceutical Board, but also the Medical Association, the Pharmacy Association, Danske Patients, Danske Selskabet for Patient Safety and others, says that advice and guidance are right, really important in relation to the preparations that the Danish Medicines Agency has assessed must have guidance and advice with to the citizens in order to ensure patient safety. So what I hear from the Danish People's Party here is that you want to override the professional framework and recommendation to ensure patient safety. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027115330	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027115331	One has not dealt with the model it could in fact be just a book that was freely available with a table of contents of all the preparations where one can inform oneself about the products as well as on the Internet or elsewhere. This has not been the case in the material to which the rapporteur refers. That is why we are not talking about the fact that the product itself will be in the front line, but that it will be a dummy of the product itself, and then you can go up to the counter and get the necessary professional help for the product.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027115406	Thank you. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027115408	Thank you. Now, apparently, there is a little sport in using movie references in debates here in the Parliamentary Chamber. After all, we had it in the opening debate, and as it looks like with 2025 plan and financial law negotiations, it is possible that we can make a reference to Judgment Day Now when we come to that debate. But what I would like to ask the rapporteur is this: the rapporteur himself mentions the fact that there should be a problem of discretion today. However, does not impress the rapporteur at all that none of the organizations in the hearing answers provide answers to this question, both the Danish Nursing Council, the Medical Association, the Pharmadanmark and the Elders case, are asking for this opportunity. So it's obviously not a big wish of those organizations. On the contrary, they have a desire for good professional advice. So the desire for increased discretion is obviously not something that is at least with consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027115506	Here you go. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027115508	It is, of course, true that the organisations mentioned here represent all citizens in Denmark who buy over-the-counter medicines. I find it hard to imagine that exactly these organizations do. I am in any case personally neither a member of the Elders Case nor a Danish Nursing Council, so I do not feel very represented in this. I may be the type of person who is standing as a public person in my local utility association, where I am known by many people... I don't want to tell everyone about me what I do like at home and need a little over-the-counter medicine for. In the same way, I think there are a lot of other Danes who might want a little more discretion about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027115550	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027115552	But the whole question of discretion is not bypassed. Whether you're standing by the cashier down at the local grocery store, or if you're in the pharmacy, you're gonna have to ask for this drug. The difference is that if you do it down in the supermarket, you cannot get any kind of professional advice on it. After all, you can do that at the pharmacy. I just think we have to recognise that, for example. The Consumer Council Think, which basically looks after the interests of consumers, certainly does not demand it here and has not had the experience that it is something that is being asked for by consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027115625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027115626	After all, the bill here is that you should not ask for it in words, but that you can simply take it from a shelf and put it on the tape, so that you are free from having to stand and tell anyone who can hear it, in your immediate vicinity, what you are looking for. That is, of course, the problem of discretion that this draft law deals with. And again: it must be my claim that the Consumer Council Think cannot submit a hearing answer on behalf of all Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027115700	Thank you. Then it's Roger Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027115704	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I have just one question in relation to the professional advice, which is, of course, most of the main appeal of the hearings: does the rapporteur think that, when the consultation parties say that professional advice and sparring are needed, then it is still sufficient to stand and turn the package in hand even in relation to the information and professional sparring needed in relation to these products?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027115737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027115738	After all, the proposal here does not alter the possibility of obtaining the professional guidance that you may need. It is still present to exactly the same extent if consumers want it. There's not gonna be any change to that with the bill here. So I really don't see that there's any problem with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027115759	Sir. Roger Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027115800	Thank you. But the question is, why should they be put out like attraps?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027115811	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027115812	It is, of course, in relation to these preparations, which are of a different caliber and are therefore today reserved for pharmaceutical sales. After all, there will still be the possibility of obtaining the professional evaluation when you go up and get the actual preparation delivered at the counter. That doesn't change about this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027115831	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor. I'm here to postpone the sitting until 8:00 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027130014	The sitting is resumed. We are in the process of the first reading of Bill No. L 38. We are already in the course of the debate, and the next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Hans Andersen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027130033	Thank you. That's right, we're dealing with Bill No. L 38, law amending the law on pharmacy and the law on medicinal products, today, and there have been some very good points set out in the bill, so I shall not repeat them. As I said, the first part of the bill is based on an agreement between the Minister for Health and the elderly and the Danish Apotekerfornin. And let it be said straight away: for the Left, it is essential that we also have a better balance in Denmark on this point. The patient must be in the centre, even when it comes to access to medicines. With the bill here, we create better opportunities for coherence between regional health care and citizens' access to a pharmacy, so that as a citizen and patient you can quickly start medical treatment, even outside normal opening hours. In advance, as I said, 50 pharmacies will be responsible for this watchkeeping service, which is divided into the three categories mentioned previously. The second part of the bill deals with a new system of self-election for over-the-counter medicines in the retail trade and in pharmacies. In both Norway and Sweden there are years of experience with over-the-counter medicines in self-election, and with the adoption of this bill, for example, there will be a future opportunity. to buy allergy medicine as a choice. For the Left, this is a positive initiative because it allows consumers to compare prices and applications, as well as, according to the Danish Medicines Agency's report, hand purchase medicinal products in their own choice increase price competition. Last but not least, the patient or consumer is given a discreet opportunity to consult at the pharmacy or at the store. One may have some concern as to whether self-choice gives rise to impulse purchases and additional sales, but if one looks at the experience of Norway, one sees that this is not the case and, in relation to theft, it is crucial that the drugs are placed so that the staff can supervise the drugs, and the medicines must be placed outside the grip of young children. Information about a given medicine is important, and I am therefore pleased that the Danish Medicines Agency has developed an app called Medicine Check, and this app allows the consumer to scan the barcode on the drug pack and thus get information about a given medicine. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the new guard system for pharmacies will enter into force on 1 January 2018 and the Danish Medicines Agency will follow the new self-election system closely. So on the Left side, we have to recommend this bill, and then I should like to welcome the Conservatives, who unfortunately could not be here today to announce that they also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027130346	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027130352	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. I would just like to ask the rapporteur a few questions, and that is about self-determination. Perhaps the rapporteur could explain this a little bit and say from where the need for increased self-determination actually comes. Because I am aware that the Agency for Medicinal Products, which has been asked specifically about self-choice of the Danish Medicines Agency, says and I quote from a report in the Danish Agency for Medicinal Products of February this year: "On the whole, it questioned whether patients or consumers had expressed a need for self-choice. • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20161027130436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027130437	But perhaps this is where the fundamental difference between the Social Democrats and the Left emerges. I am, in fact, concerned about giving the individual citizen as much freedom and freedom of choice as possible, and in this situation it is a freedom of choice that still contains patient safety, because the Danish Medicines Agency has to assess what products should be in its own choice. So I'm definitely not nervous. I think this opens up further freedom of choice, further opportunity to make life easier for ordinary Danes, and that is why we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027130515	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027130518	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur himself brings the concept of patient safety into this subject. In my rapporteur's speech, I made it clear at the outset that there is nothing left over or beside patient safety. That is what this is all about. Here I would just like the rapporteur to relate to the fact that the Medical Association and the Danish Society for Patient Safety, just to mention two, say that dealing with medicinal products and buying medicinal products must be accompanied by competent advice and information. This is what the Danish Society for Patient Safety says, and the Medical Association says that information must be provided by competent staff. How is it that this will happen if we get a lot of over-the-counters into the retail trade?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027130606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027130607	I am confident that when it is the Danish Medicines Agency that has to assess which products should be in choice for patient safety reasons, we have fenced in the area. And then it is not the case that every drug will now stand out freely on the shelves of the retail trade or the pharmacy. There is, after all, a more detailed consideration of what can and what should be included in self-determination. So I'm not worried about this contributing to less patient safety, certainly not.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027130645	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027130650	Thank you. Now it was because the rapporteur himself mentioned it by granting freedom of choice. I kind of agree with that. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not agree that there are two considerations. There is both freedom of choice for consumers, but there is also particular concern for patient safety. In this context, I would like to know whether it does not impress the rapporteur that none of the organisations, either the professional organisations, i.e. the Danish Nursing Council and the Medical Association, for example, or the Farmaceutics Association or the consumer organisations, the Elders Case or the Consumer Council Think about it here. On the contrary, they recommend that we continue with the current system, because there are precisely some risks in relation to patient safety. And it is surely the case that if we are to give people freedom of choice and additional freedoms, it must primarily be some that they themselves demand.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027130742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027130744	Yes, but now we haven't done a poll among all the citizens of this country. I am starting from the point of view of giving as much freedom of choice as possible to citizens in general and, if this can be combined with the fact that patient safety is in order, then I think that is the way we should go. But that is where we clearly disagree. One example is that weak painkillers in small packs are not included in the system of options. This is an example of setting a limit here, and I am quite sure that we can deal with this in the future, even to the extent that patient safety is at the top of the list.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027130825	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027130827	Yes, but of course there are limits to this. But the point of that is that when we make this type of bill, we usually use consultation responses to qualify as legislative work. And here we can only note that in this case it is quite clear what we hear from both professional organisations and from consumer organisations, namely that there is no further liberalisation in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027130851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027130852	Yeah, I can read that for you. But I'm kind of preoccupied with what ordinary people might have of desires. And if I can make everyday life easier for them while patient safety remains high, then I would like to contribute to that. That's why we're now making this proposal about self-choice around shops and pharmacies. And then I think that the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party went through excellent examples of why we should go this way and not stay in the existing one.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027130927	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027130939	Thank you. As you know, this bill contains two main parts. On the one hand, there is a certain amount of change in pharmacists' watchkeeping services and, on the other hand, there is an opening in relation to the introduction of self-selection of certain over-the-counter medicines so that they can be sold in store areas rather than only behind the counter. The proposal here envisages the introduction of this option for both pharmacies and retail outlets. First of all, I would like to say something about the change in pharmacists' watchkeeping: it is, after all, the implementation of an agreement between the Minister and the Danish Pharmacy Association from 23 June 2016. In the Enhedslisten we are largely positive about that part of the proposal. This is not because we are completely confident about the model being proposed, but most of all because it is, after all, an improvement in the existing system. With the modernisation of the Pharmacy Act in 2015, a new guard service was introduced from January 2017. The duty was imposed to be carried out by 34 pharmacies, which should be open at least from 1 p.m. 6:00 in the morning to midnight, and it should be with pharmaceutical staffing, which must be free of charge to allow medicines to be delivered to citizens when the doctor in emergency and emergency medical care estimates it. In addition, the National Health Service will decide, on the recommendation of the Regional Council, which pharmacies will be responsible for the security service. The watch-keeping obligation is allocated for five years at a time. The problem is that, after modernisation, applications have been called twice and only 10 pharmacies have applied and this has to be seen in relation to a need of 34 pharmacies. This is totally untenable. The Danish Pharmacy Association reports that they have not been able to recruit enough pharmacists. From now on, security services can be provided by 50 pharmacies and four different types of pharmacies are established, i.e. an A, B and C system and then a national 24-hour pharmacy in Copenhagen. There is a modulation between pharmaceutical and pharmacodynamic services, so that on A- and B-apotecs it is mainly pharmacists, but it opens up for the use of pharmacodynamics on B- and C-apotecs. It must continue to be possible for medicines to be delivered to citizens free of charge when a doctor in the regional emergency and emergency medical services considers it to be available. The Watchtowers receive a grant for each delivery. In the Enhedslisten we see the new system as a step forward. We are still worried about the consequences it will have, especially in the more sparsely populated areas and also in the tourist areas where there are large variations in population, depending on whether it is tourist season or not. Therefore, we recommend monitoring, as has also been suggested by the Danish Nursing Council, both in terms of accessibility in terms of geography, but also in terms of availability when it comes to the time of the day being given medication. In addition, a monitoring of the development of the supply of medicines and quality at professional level. This could be done by reporting to the committee after e.g. 2 years. The second part of the proposal on self-choice, i.e. the sale of over-the-counter medicines in store areas, we are opposed to it. It is actually with a pretty great amazement that we find that the government is making this proposal. Because there has been a massive resistance to opening up self-determination. It is both the Consumer Council Think, it is the Danish Nursing Council, it is the Elders Case, it is the Danish Society for Patient Safety, it is the Danish Association of Physicians, it is the Danish Association of Pharmatics, it is the Pharmadanmark and the Industry Association for Generic and Biosimal Medicine, which points out that neither patients nor consumers demand the possibility of medicinal products in their own choice. Everyone puts the emphasis on the importance of the purchase of medicines, including over-the-counter medicines, accompanied by professional information and advice, and several warn that the possibility of self-choice will lead to less professional advice. On the contrary, there is a fear of both overuse and improper use of medicines when it becomes sales opportunities and commercial interests that become governing rather than professional advice. The only organizations that recommend this new opening are the Danish Pharmaceutical Industry Association and the Danish Industry Association, both of which have an interest in increasing sales as much as possible. If anyone were to try to soften the proposal a little and table an amendment so that it is only in the pharmacies that will be given the option of self-election, we would be in favour of such an amendment. However, this will not change our position on the overall proposal. The Enhedslisten cannot support the current proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027131426	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027131432	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he has so much less faith or confidence in Danish citizens than in Swedish and Norwegian citizens, when we have now seen that there has been self-determination in both Sweden and Norway for many years, without there having been the major problems of patient safety, over-consumption or improper consumption.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027131457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027131458	I have great faith in the associations and organisations which are responsible for the interests of both consumers and professional organisations. And I think it is quite striking that there has been no indication in anyone that there was a need to open up to increased self-determination. That's kind of what I'm interested in. I also think that, when we have a legislative process in which we send legislative proposals into consultation, it is not, after all, because we have to comply with one hundred per cent of the consultation answers that are coming. But I think it is appropriate for us to take note of them and to note that there is a fairly clear desire from both professional and consumer organisations that this is not something we want to open up to.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027131540	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027131542	Although no one may have just been shouting about getting this arrangement now, why not give them the opportunity to do so? Nobody says they need it. Everyone can go to the pharmacy and ask for guidance and get the product across the counter if they want to continue. This is not something you impose on anyone, either pharmacists or shops or citizens. It's an opportunity that everyone gets. Why should this not be done, given that experience from abroad, and indeed from previous Danish liberalisation, shows that there have been no problems with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027131619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027131621	Well, that is because it is also quite clear from the consultation answers that there may be a concern in relation to the professional advice and also in relation to whether the products chosen are those that are professionally the best and cheapest, or whether they are the ones that are the most advertised. There may well be a fear that substitution preparations will be rejected precisely because there are massive advertising campaigns for specific products, and at the same time that the location of the products on the shelves may have an impact on which preparations are chosen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027131655	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027131700	Thank you. After all, the bill here is nothing more than an analogue version of the possibility of buying over-the-counter medicines that are already available on the Internet. Does the Enhedslisten have no sympathy at all for those people in this country who are not on the digital wave and are not safe in Internet commerce, so, by rejecting this, we are robbing the opportunity that all those who are already digital natives have, namely, the opportunity to investigate things calmly before ordering a product? Don't you have any sympathy for the people who don't have this easy access to the Internet?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027131741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027131743	Yeah, we certainly have. That's what this bill is all about, that is, that people should have every opportunity to look into the market before they go down and buy a product. But the moment they go down and buy it, they can get the professional advice that makes it the right product they choose. This isn't about some products being kept out of the market. It's just a question that these are preparations that have effects and can have side effects. Therefore, it is also necessary to obtain professional advice when buying the product.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027131816	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027131819	If you are not at home on the Internet, you do not have the opportunity to look into the products in advance. That is what you get the opportunity to do by putting them on the shelves, so that when you can't check the products from home, you can check them out while you're at the store. So I repeat my question: does the Enhedslisten have no sympathy for the people who are not at home in the digital world?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027131845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027131846	Well, it's exactly the case that if you don't have access to the Internet, there's also an opportunity to go to the pharmacy and get advice there. What we are worried about is if you do not get that advice and just go down to a supermarket and can choose products freely according to what you have read in advertising. Because I should say that the advice given through advertising is not a professionally qualified and good advice for the purchase of these products. So it is precisely about the fact that those people who do not have access to the Internet still have the opportunity to go down and be guaranteed professional advice before buying a product.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027131921	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027131932	Thank you. The draft law proposes the establishment of a new guard service for pharmacists in order to guarantee citizens good access to available medicines and high patient safety. It supports the Liberal Alliance. The new system aims to provide citizens with better services, as well as helping to improve the link between pharmacists' watchkeeping and regional emergency and emergency medical services. A better geographical coverage of pharmacists' watchkeeping services is ensured, and through a national guard pharmacy, where health professionals and citizens can seek advice and guidance on medicines outside the opening hours of the other pharmacies, it is ensured that advice and guidance can be obtained 24 hours a day. It also ensures that citizens can always get medicines from a guard pharmacy if a doctor considers it necessary. I welcome the fact that, in future, lists of B and C pharmacists do not need to be operated by pharmacists, as long as there is always a pharmaceutical officer back guard. This means that there will always be professional guidance available, although there is no requirement that it is a pharmacist that reaches the products over the counter. The second part of the draft law on the introduction of self-determination for certain non-buybacks is also very pleased with the Liberal Alliance. At the same time as professional advice will always be an option, citizens are given the opportunity to make their own assessment of what over-the-counter medicines they want to buy. Self-selection of over-the-counter medicines means that customers can themselves inform themselves in the range of over-the-counter medicines and obtain discretion in the choice of medicinal products. By choice, customers will be able to compare the scope and prices of different products, thereby increasing price competition. This should benefit consumers through better prices. At the same time, it could also be that the queue and waiting time at the pharmacy got a little shorter, which I would welcome. Self - choice is not a drastic change, since it is already possible to buy over-the-counter medicines on the Internet via the pharmacy's website. The Liberal Alliance welcomes this small step towards liberalisation, and we welcome less patronage and more efficiency, while ensuring that citizens have the necessary accessibility and professional advice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027132221	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line and we have reached Mr Beazley's position. Roger Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027132239	I stand for our health rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Schnoor. I think that there has already been a very good review of L 38, the law on the amendment of pharmacy and the law on medicinal products, by the respective rapporteurs. The alternative can easily support the fact that we will have much better geographical coverage of watchkeeping services and that delivery will be possible when deemed necessary. However, like the Enhedslisten, we cannot, for the time being, support the availability of medicines in the way it has been produced in the legislative proposal. It is simply because none of the consultation parties considers it necessary. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027132343	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027132358	Thank you. It is important for us to be able to get medicine throughout the country. On the other hand, we do not believe that there is a need for easier access to, for example, young people can buy different types of medicine in supermarkets. In fact, I believe that we have a task in getting the Danes to use less medicine. That is why we are in favour of one part of the proposal, but against the other part. We think it is good that the Minister has had a talk with pharmacists about what it takes to have security services throughout the country, and I would like to acknowledge the Minister for having found a solution jointly with the sector. We would like to support that. On the other hand, we cannot support the part about so-called self-determination. We think this is a bad idea. The government argues that it will partly save time for cashiers, partly to allow customers to stand and read the back of the package themselves and thus to be able to learn more discreetly whether it is one or the other to choose. It is not my experience that the present system is too cumbersome or takes too long; on the contrary, I believe that there is a very good relationship between medium and objective, because it may be a little bit cumbersome, so that you only buy medicines when you need them. I can better understand the argument that people would like to have the opportunity to read on the packages in peace and quiet. Therefore, we can help to look at it if we can agree to limit it to pharmacies, where you can get help and guidance. We will try to take that into account in the further negotiations on the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027132557	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027132605	As the last rapporteur, I understand, I shall also be brief. SF is positive that we look again at pharmacists' duty to watch. It is absolutely essential that we have the certainty that citizens have the necessary access to essential medicines. However, it is important that the new watchkeeping service is closely monitored, so we have the assurance that there is sufficient availability for medicine at different times of the day in most places in the kingdom. SF, on the other hand, is concerned about the government's proposal that more over-the-counter medicines should now be available by choice only to take account of more commercial interests. In fact, we think, in line with the Consumer Council, that the current system is working very well. It provides easy access to the most common over-the-counter medicine without compromising patient safety. That will all be the case if, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections. More headache medications can only be ripped off the shelves. That is why the SF will vote against the part of the proposal as it stands in the current version.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027132721	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments and, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I'm sorry, it's the minister... since we have a minister present. Then maybe the next one can get up here. Here you go, and apologize to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027132743	Thank you so much. You have to stick to the Danish Parliament. Thank you for that, and thank you for the comments and the largely good reception of the draft law, which is, of course, about the government's desire to ensure better accessibility for citizens to medicines. We do this partly by establishing a well-functioning pharmaceutical service and partly by creating the possibility of self-selecting over-the-counter medicines. As far as the pharmacists' watchkeeping service is concerned, the bill translates into an agreement that I have concluded with the Danish Pharmacy Association. The background to the agreement was the experience of the current watchmanship service and the difficulties in implementing the agreed but not entered into force guarding system adopted by the Folketing under the SR government. It was, in some respects, totally skewed and, unfortunately, unrealistic, since not many pharmacies would be involved. As Minister for Health, I have therefore taken on the task of getting an agreement with the Danish Pharmacy Association, so that we will now get a new arrangement together. From now on, about 50 guards will take care of the guard during the period from 5: 00 p.m. 6:00 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. 24.00 with three different types of watchkeeping services, while the regions from 24.00. 24:00 till 12:00. 6.00 delivers the necessary medicines. With the maintenance of the pharmacists' watchkeeping service to the 50 or so pharmacies, we ensure a better geographical coverage, especially in the outlying areas. It supports a Denmark in a better balance, and it contrasts with the model adopted under the previous government. That is why I am very pleased that it looks as though there is overwhelmingly positive support from whom I had just said to all the parties that we are now getting the imbalance that lay in it, thereby ensuring a better geographical coverage for citizens, especially in the outermost regions. Then, in his rapporteur's speech, DF asked about the question of the use of medicinal products. As far as the free delivery of medicines is concerned, there is no change compared to the proposal for the modernisation of the pharmaceutical sector, which was adopted here in the Danish Parliament in 2015, and therefore it will also be possible to deliver medicines from a guard pharmacy to citizens without self-payment when a doctor in the regional emergency and emergency medical services considers it necessary. So there is no change to what we have jointly adopted and decided in the Folketing at an earlier stage. Then there is the second part of the bill, which is about allowing the retail trade to have certain over-the-counter medicines in the store area and thus not only behind the counter. The proposal is a follow-up to the discussions we had when we negotiated a modernisation of the pharmaceutical sector among the parties of the Folketing, where it was informed by the then Social Democratic Minister for Health and I quote that he was open to look at the possibility of certain over-the-counter medicines being in self-choice, not only in pharmacies, but also in the supermarkets, kiosks etc., which negotiate certain hand-out medicines. We have pursued that openness further, so to speak. I think it was a positive and good openness, as the former Socialist Minister for Health showed, and so we can also ensure that citizens themselves can make a better assessment of what they want to buy. I think that the example of the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party was very appropriate for a situation that one might see vividly, and frankly I think that there are a great many citizens who will experience a much greater degree of discretion by being able to look at a medicine themselves instead of going up to the counter and asking the staff to hand it over. At the same time, we also know from the experience of other countries about this, among other things. Norway that there has been no increase in the consumption of over-the-counter medicines as a result of self-determination. I think that this experience speaks their clear language, and it is therefore not empirically possible to find any evidence that there is any evidence of the nervousness which some parties are expressing here today. Nor have the Swedish and Norwegian authorities expressed any concerns about self-election schemes in the pharmacies and in the retail trade. So this is not about defending commercial interests. I think it was the SF's rapporteur who said it this way: this is about safeguarding the interests of the citizens. At the same time, we have taken care with the bill to establish the necessary fence posts, namely by providing professional advice where necessary. We do not change our distinction between which over-the-counter medicines may be sold in the pharmacy and which may be sold in the retail trade. There seems to be a widespread misunderstanding about this among certain parties in the Folketing. At the same time, the Danish Medicines Agency will carefully assess which products can be self-choice based on patient safety considerations. Therefore, for example, creams against cold sores and weak painkillers in small packs are also not included in the scheme. Patient safety is also ensured by the Danish Medicines Agency's careful assessment of what products may be in choice. I hope that the draft law will receive a good reading of the committee and, of course, I will answer any questions the committee may have on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027133328	Thank you. And it called for a number of brief remarks. The first one's from sir. Roger Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027133334	Thank you. And thank you for the Minister's statement. I have full confidence in the ability of the Danish citizens to assess what kind of medicine they need. When, for example, Nevertheless, the Pharmacy Association says that it will not give greater, but less, price competition, because self-determination increases the power of advertising and because we send out signals that medicines are safe consumer goods, does it not make an impression on the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027133409	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027133411	It always makes an impression on the opinion of the consultation parties, but I do not agree that increased self-determination will not lead to increased price competition. You can take a look at the experience from Norway. It is always good to be able to refer from the real world and look at how things have gone in those places where you have actually done it and there you can see that a system where you just have drugs behind the counter is a system that very much favours branded goods, which means everything else equals less competition and thus also higher prices. So I believe that self-choice can potentially help to increase price competition, since it allows people, as consumers, to compare the scope and prices of different products. And then I certainly do not think that we should ignore the possibility of discretion which I believe many citizens will experience as something positive, that is to say, that in future you can stand by and look at various buy-in products and do not have to go to the counter and ask that they be taken out of the counter.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027133515	Sir. Roger Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027133517	Thank you. I hear that there are a number of rapporteurs who say that they can support the first part of the legislative proposal, but not the second part. Could the Minister be interested in splitting the bill into two?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027133534	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027133535	After all, this bill is about ensuring better accessibility for citizens to medicines. We are doing so, firstly, by ensuring a good watchmanship so that citizens can also buy medicines at the wrong times, and secondly, by proposing to introduce increased self-selection of over-the-counter medicines. That is also why the bill has been deliberately tabled together and not as a change to the Pharmacy Act and a change to the pharmaceutical law separately. I also think that this is about using Parliament's resources in a sensible way, and that is why I think it makes good sense that it is a single legislative proposal. And that is why I see no immediate reason to share it. It can be said that the scepticism expressed by some parties today did not exist before the parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027133621	Thank you, Minister. The next brief remark is from Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027133626	Thank you very much. And thank you to the Minister. I would like to hear from the Minister whether there has been any thought of having a discussion with the parties behind last year's draft law, L 35, before sending things out in this package. This was a tiny bit surprising to me, also because the Minister is now saying that this is a matter of using Parliament's resources in the best way possible. I'm just thinking about this bill, why the Minister has not given the conciliation circle behind L 35 an orientation in this area. It is of course the case that the consultation answers, but also the report by the Danish Medicines Agency on over-the-counter medicines in self-choice, give rise to political amazement, because there are so many who are skeptical of the self-choice part.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027133726	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027133727	I am surprised if there is anything that might surprise any rapporteurs in the Chamber today. First of all, I think it is my duty as Minister for Health to ensure that the crooked guarding system that was created under the former Socialist Government is now getting away. Now we will have something much better done and better geographical coverage, especially in the outermost regions. I've been working hard on that. This was one of the things that I spent a great deal of my time as rapporteur at the time in opposition: increased attention in the Folketing, because I thought we were about to adopt something that I thought was wrong. You have to be careful not to say what I said, but that is what was the result. There were no pharmacists who wanted to be there. Secondly, as far as self-election is concerned, we are following up what the rapporteur's own minister openly declared to the parties of the Folketing and for which we spent a long time in the negotiations, namely that we should look at the possibilities of introducing increased self-election. If we had had all the information we have today with the experience of Norway and Sweden, it would have been included in the change that we agreed at the time with the parties of the Folketing. However, I think it is striking that the former Socialist Minister stressed that he was not only open to looking at it in pharmacies, but also in supermarkets and at kiosks. The work that has been set in motion is, in fact, just the work that is now before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027133849	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027133851	Actually, I didn't understand why it got that emphasis. I have just said in my rapporteur's speech that I have a great deal of respect for the fact that the Minister has put the guard system in place and that a very fine compromise has been made. That's what I stressed. I said it very clearly. On self-election, I said that the former Minister for Health said that this would be looked at, that would be evaluated by the Danish Medicines Agency. That's why we got the report here. But that report is not just a support for self-determination. There are a lot of statements in this about scepticism, and the Pharmaceutical Board is also asking where this need comes from. That is why I am just a little surprised that, in respect of the Folketing, the Minister is not having a discussion with the parties behind it to find out what has been achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027133941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027133943	I do not recall that Parliament has a conciliation in the field of pharmacies, as I believe the rapporteur was told in his previous question. When this work was started, we expressed ourselves quite clearly when we were negotiating the previous Pharmacy Bill. So everybody knew this work was getting started. So if the scepticism expressed today by the Socialist rapporteur had also existed at the time, then I simply do not understand that the Socialist Minister for Health did not make sure to say that the experiences of Norway and Sweden would now be examined, not only for self-choice in pharmacies, but also for self-election in kiosks and supermarkets.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027134023	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027134028	Thank you. I cannot help noticing that I think it is a rather interesting priority for the Minister of Health when she emphasizes her emphasis on where she gets information about this bill, because it seems that she attaches more importance to what a former Social Democratic Minister has said than what the interested parties have said. There I would say that in the Enhedslisten we are much more concerned with what the consultative parties say than we are with what former social democratic ministers could have said and meant. Then the minister says this isn't about commercial interests. It is possible, but I still find it thought-provoking when you read the hearing answers that the only people who speak for this are the Pharmaceutical Industry Association and the Danish Industry Association. These are two organisations which both have a commercial interest in this, whereas all professional organisations and consumer organisations speak against it. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister: where has this idea that this should be changed come about? Because it can't be something that comes from the Medicines Agency; they don't recommend it. There are no consumers or professional organizations who recommend it, so where does this urge to make this change of law come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027134134	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027134136	I have to repeat where this comes from: well, it came from a former minister of health who said that he was open to looking at the possibilities of self-choosing certain over-the-counter medicines. It is also in a reply that has been sent to the Danish Parliament, but we also discussed it together during the negotiations on the former Pharmacy Act. That is where it comes from, that is to say, it was decided to say: well, now we must ask the Danish Medicines Agency to gain experience from Norway and from Sweden, where self-election has been introduced. These are the lessons we have learned today. To the scepticism, which among other things. Some parties have raised whether this will not lead to a significantly increased consumption and purchase of over-the-counter medicines, is the answer: No, that is what the experience from Norway shows the opposite picture of. That is why I cannot understand why anyone might think that it is a surprise that we are dealing with the legislative proposal here today and that there is work that has gone ahead. There was a marked degree of support among the parties when we negotiated the Pharmacy Act that this was quite sensible to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027134239	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027134241	Now I assume that the government is not basing its policy on what former Socialist ministers have meant and done and then wants to put it into practice. In other words, it may well happen that the then Minister for Health, Nick Hækkerup, has said so at some point, but when we deal with the bill today, we will have to deal with the consultation answers we get in and there is only one concern. It may well not lead to increased consumption, but it may lead to improper use of medication or overuse. I think that we should take this into account when we deal with this bill, regardless of what former Social Democratic Ministers might have thought of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027134323	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027134324	I fully agree with that. But when the rapporteur asks where this comes from, I am just honest and say that the work that has gone ahead is not something I have started. It was launched under the former Minister. He was open to this. This openness is entirely in agreement with the government, because we think it is sensible to give citizens better opportunities for self-choosing certain over-the-counter medicines. I think so, among other things. on the grounds of discretion, so as a citizen, for example, you don't have to stand in front of the counter and ask the clerk for nicotine gum, but you can go and take it and put it on the counter yourself. So why is it that we insist that the citizens themselves should not also experience an increased degree of discretion? I do not understand that there are any parties that seem to be of benefit, because you have the possibility, if you would like the professional advice, to buy the over-the-counter medicines at the pharmacy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027134417	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027134421	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister for the investigation into the delivery of medicines after midnight. I also had a question concerning the 24-hour watch pad, which is specifically mentioned in the legislative text to be put in Copenhagen. I have no hope of putting it in Holbæk, where I come from, but I think that other cities must have the competences that might be relevant in this matter and as a government that has drummed for a fairer distribution of the things in which the state supports and puts money in, I just want to hear why it has been decided to say that it is precisely Copenhagen that should have this function. I guess you could have put it in either Odense or Aarhus.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027134506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027134507	Holbæk is a lovely city. The agreement on the placement of a 24-hour pharmacy has been concluded with the Danish Pharmacy Association, and if you wanted more, you should therefore also point to the economy for it. As far as the function is concerned, it is acting, among other things. That you have to be able to call in from anywhere in the country. I believe that the rapporteur was told in his speech whether this was not an expression of Copenhagen. I have to say that this bill is all but an expression of anything else, because it addresses precisely the imbalance that existed in the old guard service, which certainly did not ensure an optimal guard service in the outermost regions. We are now getting this right by getting the 50 Watchtowers over the 34 originally adopted by the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027134557	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027134559	Thank you. I am simply aware that, as a state, we will have the best professional and economically most advantageous offer home. So that must surely be why you have chosen Copenhagen, but I think that if you could perhaps in future imagine offering something like this, it is a little silly that it is written directly in the text of the law that it should be located in Copenhagen. Could it not be imagined that it was a 24-hour pharmacy, which is placed in agreement with the Pharmacy Association?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027134630	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027134631	But the location is just after agreement with the Danish Pharmacy Association.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027134637	Thank you. Then we have another brief comment and it is from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027134644	I find it difficult to see what exactly the real need is, that is, what the need is to change something that actually works well, and I think that most of the answers to the consultation also express that. I think you can get the impression that it leaves at least the answers given by the Minister that this is more about discretion. But prescription drugs must also be sold at the counter, and if you put goods on the tape in the shopping center, the customer has free access both in front and behind to see what kind of goods I have in front of me. Could it be that we should really consider some other forms of discretion?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027134730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027134732	There is at least a clear misunderstanding among certain parties, because when you listen to the debate, you can understand it as if this bill changes the difference between which over-the-counter medicines may be sold from the pharmacy and which may be sold in the retail trade. We're not gonna change that at all with this bill. What we are dealing with is whether we should insist that, for the things we have already said, we think it is reasonable that we can also trade in the retail trade, so as a citizen should ask a salesman to take it in the back of a cage and give it to the citizen, or whether it is okay, if it is about, for example, the purchase of nicotine gum for a citizen who wants to quit smoking, that one can then take it and pay for one's goods. Try to think of the example of how many exciting situations you could imagine if it was the case that there is no difference between whether you take a product as a consumer or have to ask for it at the counter of a cashier.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027134837	There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027134900	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027134915	Denmark is the world champion of digitisation, and that is good. It is positive for the environment that less burden is placed when we communicate digitally. In addition, digitalisation generally means lower costs, which in turn means saving some tax dollars that can be used to raise welfare elsewhere. However, digitalisation is not good for the mail, and certainly not for Post Denmark, which has the universal service on letters and packages in Denmark, a scheme that ensures that letters and packages are delivered with the same service at the same price throughout the country, whether you live in Tønder or in Taastrup. When, due to digitalisation, the volume of letters drops massively last year alone, the volume of letters decreased by 16%. We cannot ignore that development at Christiansborg. Post Danmark is partly owned by the State. The company carries out the universal service and thus promises an important part of the infrastructure in Denmark. Therefore, a new postal agreement which organises the terms of Post Denmark is necessary, and it is in view of the massive drop in the volume of letters that the present agreement and the bill we are discussing today must be read. During the process, the main thing for the Social Democratic Party has been to ensure that a uniform postal service is maintained throughout the country. This requires the maintenance of the universal service. Everyone must have the opportunity to send and receive letters and packages across the country at the same price and with the same service. This is crucial both for citizens and for businesses. A uniform service and price throughout Denmark would be threatened if we were to simply liberalise the postal sector without further ado. This would not help to create a better balance for Denmark. That is why the Social Democratic Party has entered into the negotiations on how best to adapt the service requirements that Post Denmark as a transport carrier must meet. As such, I am satisfied that, on a difficult basis, we have created a standard letter product, in which delivery time is adapted to the fact that so many letters are no longer to be distributed, but where the price of 8 DKK. in exchange for the slower delivery is well below the 19 DKK, which a standard A letter cost earlier. It is obvious that there is a deterioration in services. There is no reason to hide that, but if Post Denmark, the universal service and the uniform service across the country were to be maintained, then the way had been shown. As a plus in the agreement, I think it is worth emphasising that we have succeeded in fulfilling the wish of the small islands of the country to obtain their own postal code. For island communities, it has been important to strengthen their independence and identity by accessing their own postal code. We have secured this with the agreement that we are working on today, and that is positive. Finally, I would like to mention that it has been rather strange to sit in the Ministry of Transport and negotiate significant budget improvements for the post, in parallel with the Government of the Ministry of Taxation's initiative to change the rules on VAT charging for e-commerce packages. The administrative change in the Ministry's interpretation of the VAT application rule in question means that Post Danmark's universal service obligation and therefore VAT-free cargo of packages between Internet shops and consumers with the new idea of the rules will de facto be subject to VAT. According to Post Danmark, the measure costs the company between 120 and 150 million. kr. a year. It annoys me that no solution has been found that frees Post Denmark from the negative consequences of the discussed change of interpretation in the Treasury, and I am surprised that the government has not as a collective been more concerned with solving this matter, which may prove to be extremely serious for Post Danmark's economy in the years to come. Finally, I should like to welcome the Radicals, who unfortunately have no opportunity to be here today, and to say that they support the proposal, just as the Social Democrats do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027135345	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027135350	I understand from the Socialist rapporteur that it is important to maintain a uniform level around the country and that, therefore, universal service must be provided. But it has to be said that the uniform level that has come out of it puts a great question mark over whether it is a real universal service. Yes, it is uniform throughout the country, but with a delivery time of 5 days for such a letter to 8 DKK, I question whether that is what is meant by a universal service. But I would like to ask the rapporteur, who then admits that this is of course a clear loss of service: does the rapporteur think that the problems of Post Denmark, especially the financial problems, have been solved by this agreement? Isn't it just the case that we come back in 2019 and say that we're still in some kind of mess?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027135453	The minister. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027135454	You can never know if it will be that way at some point, but not yet! Thank you for the question. I think it might be a little fresh from the questioner in that way to be cheerful about whether you can talk about a universal service at all, because of course you can. And for those of us who are in the agreement, those of us who have taken responsibility for Post Danmark's economy, the way was, I think I said that too. So, if you want a Post Denmark that is viable in the future, there should be adjustments to the service and it is still so that you can get a day-to-day product, and it doesn't cost 19 DKK, it costs 25 DKK. It's not a service improvement, I admit, but I just want to hold on to the fact that if you want there to be no difference between whether you live in Taastrup or in Tønder, which I think is absolutely crucial and, I think, crucial for many people in the vast circle that both the questioner and I are elected in the • it was therefore necessary to take responsibility for adapting the service in such a way that Post Danmark can live forward. Whether or not the problem has been resolved, I am not in a position to answer the question, but I would say that the measures that we have put in place have been implemented following a dialogue with Post Denmark, so I naturally expect that with the new postal agreement they will be able to have a more viable economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027135613	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027135614	After all, it is a Post Denmark on regular market conditions without State aid. Has it ever roamed the Social Democrats in these negotiations, which have been concluded, that it could also be an opportunity with state aid to have a professional post office that lives on and can provide a proper service, let us call it the duty to provide services? I would like to ask a few questions about the VAT problem which the rapporteur himself mentioned in his speech and said: what is this thing that suddenly comes in through the back door or in from the right or what to say? And there I fully agree with the rapporteur. But what have the Socialists in the negotiations done to stop this? Has it been possible to say: then we should not negotiate this postal agreement until we know what the conditions are for the postal service? It is, of course, an unfair situation to put a company in the position of not really knowing its future economically.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027135704	Yes, please! The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027135705	But I agree with the questioner on that very much. And let me first respond to the part that concerns whether Post Danmark is going to the Finance Act. I do not think Post Danmark should. I don't think it would benefit the company in any way. I think we need to find a way to operate postal services under commercial conditions in the way we know it today. So I wouldn't recommend that. But I agree with the questioner that it has been very inappropriate that the government has not taken a more comprehensive responsibility for Post Denmark in making this change to the VAT exemption rules. And we have also made it clear in the postal services that we urged the government that there should be a dialogue between Post Denmark and the Ministry of Taxation in order to find a solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027135751	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027135759	With L 14 we make some changes to the postal code. It is the B letter that is being phased out and the compensation system that is slipping out. The Danish People's Party supports the proposal, which is part of an agreement that has been concluded in view of the need to look at it again due to falling letter volumes and a large deficit in Post Denmark. It has been important for the Danish People's Party to continue to maintain a universal service, so that if a person or a public authority makes the effort to write a letter to you, you should be able to receive it wherever you are in the country. And it has to be at the same price for the same product in the city, in the countryside and in the small islands. This also applies to those letters to our older citizens who do not have a PC and therefore may have been exempted from having an e-Boks; they must be able to receive a letter from e-Boks at any time. hospital, municipality and others, so that we ensure that their call from e.g. The hospital arrives on time. This has been very important for the Danish People's Party. A daily newspaper has then just the other day highlighted that there may be some places where it does not succeed. It must not take place, and I would like to ask that during the further debate of L 14. Letters to everyday life, if you can put it that way, we have had to give a longer delivery time of up to 5 days in places where there may only be mail twice a week. But we have to remember why we're doing this. Denmark is the world champion of digitalisation... so much that other countries look at Denmark and look at how we do, because they know very well that they are in the same situation with the challenges it brings. We send almost all our mail by mail. mail, handles our payments via online banking, stuffs our house purchases and reregisters our cars online, etc. etc. That is why there is not the same amount anymore, and so we have to deal with that. The year 2000 was the year we sent the most letters to each other... we sent almost 1 billion letters... and now 16 years later we are down to just over 100 million letters, and the amount is only decreasing. It is clear that it will be difficult to find economics in distributing letters every day. Those who still use ordinary letters in everyday life, we know we definitely don't find this solution optimal. And we confess that it gives them some genes. The Danish People's Party is also sorry for all the postal workers who are now going out to find new jobs as a result of redundancies due to the falling letter volume. And we know and hope that PostNord is doing everything they can to help find new jobs. The post uniforms in the Danish People's Party had liked to have stayed in the red colours, the postcars and bikes in the yellow as we know them. Unfortunately, we were a little alone with that view, and that is why we were only added that we encouraged the company to use these familiar colours, which unfortunately was looked at in great detail. With regard to postal numbers for the small islands, we are pleased to be able to understand our suggestion that small islands which no longer had their own postal code could get it back, so that it appears that it is an island. This makes it easier, for example, to decide by accident that you should send a helicopter and not an ambulance. And it may also give the advantage that you can get a little cheaper home insurance, as there is never a break-in on the small islands. But it will also be the case that the name of the island appears more clearly and is not forgotten under anything else. So all in all, this is an adjustment of an almost 400-year-old profession which has been overtaken by new technology. We have to deal with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027140158	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027140203	Yes, of course. You have to deal with that. I agree with the rapporteur on this. But does it really think that the solution that has emerged is satisfactory, not least for the country's many, many pensioners, or the many pensioners in the country who are not on the Internet? It might be 300,000 people who aren't on the Internet. Well, I mean, they've of course been allowed to communicate per. normal letter, but that letter is then 5 days along the way for the future. Does the rapporteur really think this is a satisfactory solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027140234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027140237	We would have liked to have seen that there was still mail distribution 6 days a week, but it just can't be done. Well, there was a deficit of almost half a billion. kr., and we have to deal with that. That is why we need to reduce the number of distributions. We have to keep in mind that there should preferably be somewhere between $12 and $15. between thumbs and pointers on a postman when you walk around, and we can't have them driving around out there and there so no mail is included. It's completely indestructible.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027140309	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027140312	I agree with that. It is a development that is taking place and there is, of course, some sort of transitional arrangement for which some funding has to be found. That is why we could have discussed the possibility, but I can imagine that that was not what was wanted in the conciliation circle. However, we could supplement some state aid, as we do with other companies. I mean, we couldn't dream of eliminating all state aid, for example. DSB and yet ask them to live up to the universal service around the clock at least once an hour on all lines.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027140342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027140344	Yeah, you could've picked that. I mean, it's just a completely different place, that every year we saw the Finance Act, we had to find something like 1⁄2 billion. kr., and there was not Danish People's Party. We still believe that we should have a postal service and we also believe that we should allow them to run a business. But that it would all of a sudden be something where the state finances it when people communicate with each other via ordinary letters that were not Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027140417	We thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and move on to the next in line, which is Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027140426	Thank you. The mail must be out in wind and sleet. But today there are far fewer letters than there were in the past, and this is due, among other things, to. decisions in this Chamber that Denmark should be a pioneer country in terms of digitalisation, electronic mail, etc. When there are far fewer letters, it also pushes the economy for Post Denmark, because Post Denmark as a universal service provider needs to be able to deliver letters to all households in Denmark. So it is clear that when there are few letters, but you still have to maintain a system and a device that allows you to deliver anywhere, you will be very pressured financially. This is the reason for a political agreement from 3 May 2016 which addresses the reality and the issue of a broad political agreement, which is implemented by the Minister on the one hand by administrative means, on the other hand by some things that have already been put in place, on the other hand by some things that require a change of law, and that is the reason for the draft law here today. I welcome the fact that among the administrative changes there was one positive thing: 23 of our smaller islands now have their own postal code. I think that is a good help and a good signal that we actually want a Denmark in better balance, that we remember our islands. The two main amendments to the draft law are, therefore, firstly, that a change to the law is proposed, so that the name B letter becomes a letter instead. There is no reason to hide the fact that in this change there really is a deterioration in service. The amount of letters drops dramatically and costs need to be adjusted if Post Denmark is not to end up as a very large item of expenditure on the Finance Act. With this amendment, the letter A is no longer the ordinary letter. The letter A simply deletes and thus abolishes the day-to-day delivery of letters. Instead, Post Danmark introduces a new service in the form of a so-called urgent letter or quick letter, as it came to be called, and it can then be used in the relatively few cases where a letter must be delivered the following day. But it's for extra charge, a quick letter of up to 100 g costs 27 kr. in postage. For comparison, a regular letter, i.e. the previous B letter of up to 50 g, costs 8 DKK. in postage, and there is then a delivery time of up to 5 days. Yeah, it's a service impairment. However, it is rarely 5 days before a letter is delivered. Many letters are even delivered the next day and some 2 days later, but it can take up to 5 days. We certainly do not introduce the rule of enthusiasm in the mind, but the Left naturally supports the broad political agreement needed to reduce Post Denmark's costs. Secondly, the draft law means that we are abolishing the compensation system. With the abolition of the compensation scheme, from the financial year 2017 it will no longer be possible for Post Denmark to submit a request to receive contributions from the compensatory scheme. In the view of the Left, there is no evidence to continue with a compensatory mechanism leading to unequal competition on the market. With the abolition of the system, we will thus achieve more equal competition in the postal market, and we welcome that. Then there has been some progress on VAT rules. Among other things: the Socialist rapporteur referred to the issue, and I would just like to read out a quote from the political agreement, which states that the agreement has been concluded without the parties to the agreement having any influence on the possible change of the tax treatment rules by SKAT. So we have discussed and taken a position on this in the course of the negotiations, and what I have just read out is the result of it. To sum up, I can say that the Left can support the bill, and I should like to welcome my Conservative colleague, Rasmus Jarlov, and say that the Conservatives also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027140838	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027140843	It can be said that the Enhedslisten is not part of the conciliation circle of this debate. Oh. I agree with the rapporteur of the Left and the previous rapporteurs that there is, of course, enormous pressure on postal services due to technological developments, huge digitalisation and the huge drop in the volume of letters. I agree with that. But there has also been double pressure in itself, because at the same time a series of competitors have been released into the postal market, and there is no universal service whatsoever in the consignments they are trying to deal with. And it is many times companies that use underpaid, at best low paid, labour of different types. The real question is whether you want to maintain a professional post office and then actually pay what it costs. Because we are really talking about being in a transitional period. This is not something that goes on forever and ever.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027140950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027140953	I think it is such a fresh remark on the part of Enhedslisten to say that we have unleashed a series of competitors. Well, fortunately, that's something the market itself will take care of. We set up a framework here in the Folketing, a legal framework, and the trade unions negotiate some agreements. And within that framework, of course, you can start all sorts of legal business. In the left, we are not afraid of competition. We have a position that it basically leads to more efficiency and better service; we see that in a wide range of areas. But we still have the universal postal service for Post Denmark because we want there to be certainty that all houses in Denmark can get mail at uniform rates. But it's challenged, there's no reason to hide it. Now we have made an agreement that reaches until 2019, but it is clear that we will probably see a continuing decline in the volume of letters. And then, in a few years' time, we will have to deal with what we will do next, because the universal service is challenged. But we also want to make sure that all households in Denmark can get their mail, so that is the field in which we work. And there we may be able to move forward with the private sector instead of seeing the private sector as the enemy, as some tend to do. Perhaps some exciting cooperation relations could then be established in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027141107	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027141110	Well, the difference is, we're just making some demands exactly to the State Post Office. As a state, we are actually demanding, among other things. the universal service, how this should be done, in contrast to the private people who, indeed, have been released into the market. No demands will be made. They can take the bites of the market that fit them, it's in it. I don't mind competition, but they take the bites off the market that suit them. First of all, it is lucrative to distribute in the big cities, where there is not far between the subscribers, and then we have, pyha, fortunately Post Denmark to distribute out there, where there is a really long distance between the subscribers, where there is a really long distance between people and where it is really expensive to distribute mail.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027141150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027141153	Yeah, yeah, but now the mail isn't the only thing we're talking about here. Well, there are also packages and other things. And I have noted that around the country there are actually private suppliers getting very far out. For example, some very good solutions have been found on Fanoe, which could inspire other parts of the country. So I do not see the private players as such, some boogeymen who are now coming in and scraping to themselves. They run a legal company, and then we have a situation here for Post Danmark, where there are fewer and fewer letters, and we have dealt with that here. And then I also note with satisfaction that Post Danmark is in the process of transforming and renewing itself, among other things. to get a bigger share of the package market and other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027141233	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027141247	If it wasn't for Enhedslisten, there wasn't a lot of debate out of this, but bad about it now. It seemed to be a surprise to the Minister and to the conciliation circle that Post Denmark's response to the political agreement behind the proposal was massive redundancies of staff in addition to those already announced. One might be tempted to ask that if it was a surprise, what would one really have thought, all the time that there are massive cuts in the service and even the core service, in our opinion, in bringing letters into every corner of the country from day to day? I will admit that the day-to-day delivery was already somewhat shaky with the introduction of B-letters and A-letters, where the price of the A-letter with delivery from day to day has been set so high that one must almost believe that it has contributed to the falling volumes of letters, although of course that is not the main reason. Since a letter must be 5 days in the process, we are back in the time of the stage. That it should have something to do with universal service in a modern society, we think it is an enchantment. I can see from the hearing from the Danish Business and Danish Media that they actually also believe that universal service must have something to do with approximately day-to-day delivery. Of course, we in the Enhedslist are aware that the volume of letters has fallen and continues to fall sharply in our digitised society, and that there must therefore be an adaptation to the reality of bringing letters out. Post Danmark's deficit, in itself, says it for the last 2, 3, 4 years, and it shows very well that something has to be done if we want to maintain a high quality postal company characterised by well-trained and stable employees in full-time collective positions. As politicians, we have to make up for ourselves whether we want a postal service of that caliber, or whether we believe that delivery can be made in the future by means of schoolchildren on mopeds and bicycles or parcel companies, which in many cases use foreign underpaid labour and who live high on the fact that, after all, we still have a postal service that comes out into every corner of the country, out there, where there is a long way between subscribers and where there are not many people living and where it is therefore expensive to ensure distribution, or whether you want a postal service based on temporary workers, temporary workers and hourly-paid workers, which is what 220 representatives of the employees quite recently warn against in a statement. This has been done while continuing to demand that Post Denmark be able to cope with market conditions and therefore without State aid, but with continued state requirements for universal service obligations on letters and packages, free shipments to blind persons, registered consignments, etc. In our view, in relation to the compensation scheme, which will now be abolished by the end of 2019, it is actually compensation paid by competitors for having had a bite of the cake because they have been given it without universal service or any other requirement. And if you do not want to grant Post Denmark state subsidies for a transitional period, while the company adapts to the falling volumes of letters and the increasing deficit, then we actually think that it is quite reasonable for competitors to be involved in paying, so competition is fairly fair. Indeed, we believe that the compensation system is a means of making competition fair and is therefore also limited to shipments within the universal service. It is therefore being abolished now, despite the fact that we actually believe that the compensation system is inadequate in that game. In recent years, we may call it the settlement of Post Denmark has not been a pretty sight and has been rather ruthless to the employees of the company, who have otherwise shown a great deal of understanding of the company's problems and among other things. an agreement was reached as late as the end of 2015 when the paid meal break was dropped and the special holiday allowance was reduced from 1.5%. at 1%. Nevertheless, the employees have had to lay their backs on large-scale redundancies and therefore now again. Quite frankly, I think that there is a great deal of confusion about the patience of the employees. The response from the Danish Blind Society and the consultation note's response to this raise a question which I hope the Minister will answer in his ministerial speech: What has come out of the request that Post Denmark should make to the Danish Blind Society and Nota regarding shipments to the blind? It was obvious that the day-to-day shipment, which Post Danmark now renames for quick shipping and which costs a farm, was made free of charge for the blind. Judging from the hearing from the Danish Blind Society, there is still a great need for day-to-day deliveries to the blind.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027141801	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027141812	In the absence of our rapporteur, I must inform you that, in the present very difficult times for postal services, we see it as an advantage for the company if the letter A as a universal letter is abolished and then the old letter B as the main product to be delivered within 5 days, as has been mentioned. With a fall of over 80%. Of course, for ordinary A letters in a few years, it will be necessary to relax this universal service requirement in order to better match real demand. Of course, it will require very good teaching skills if you are to address it here as a service extension. Of course it is not, but we have to deal soberly with what some call the actual situation in the iron industry. The time has therefore elapsed from the letter of invitation, which we ourselves have legislated for from in here when the public sector communicates with citizens. We hope, of course, that the old Danish postal service can make itself delicious and attractive in the online and parcel markets. We stress that cost-effectiveness is maintained in the postal service and can be demonstrated in a transparent manner, and are therefore satisfied that the company is obliged to obtain approval of the tariff in the Ministry of Transport for letters up to 50 grams. It must be the next best thing when the competition isn't completely free. With these words, we recommend the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027141955	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Roger Matthisen from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027142006	Thank you, President. Thank you. With regard to L 14, good statements have already been made by the rapporteurs, so I will not go so far into that. We're facing some challenges. There is, as we have just heard, a drop in letter volumes of up to 80%. It has to be handled. I really think that the bill sets out some good parameters for a company that has been chosen to operate on market terms and does not have State aid or be in the Finance Act. Let me start with the small islands. I think it is very nice and sensible that 23 of the small islands can now be recognised by their own zip code. It is gratifying, because it shows that we are responsive and still preach about and want equality with our islands. Post Danmark needs to adapt. There's nothing to do. I also believe that we are talking about provisional legislation or, at least, legislation that must exist for a period of time, because fortunately, our digital development is going to deliver, I am confident, a lot of good platforms for our senior citizens and pensioners, in terms of how they will manage their communication in the future. We see plenty of good developments of that. In short, the alternative can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027142138	Thank you to the alternative rapporteur, and then we come to the SF's rapporteur, Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027142148	It is seldom possible to meet two conflicting wishes at the same time, because, on the one hand, and for a great many good reasons, it is good that we have digitalised society and, on the other, we also want to continue to have a good postal service, but what has happened is that we have gone and become neighbours in the information society, and that is the situation in which the conciliation circle has chosen to start. Because we just have to say that it is very rare today that people are sending letters and that is why we have ended up with this agreement. It's a bad deal, but it's necessary. We have, of course, clearly said that we have chosen a more expensive product and allowed it to be matched by a worse service, but it has been necessary because that is what reality looks like and it has been necessary in order to maintain what for SF was also the most important thing, namely to be able to maintain the universal service. On the other hand, I would like to say that I think that in recent months we have received reports from employees in Post Nord a little too often about the lack of involvement and lack of use of the resources and ideas and creativity that are also among the employees in Post Nord. I am also surprised that so often we have to hear about problems with the quick letters, where people pay a very high price, and where public institutions also pay high prices to have letters sent home to citizens it may be about tests from hospitals and that they are not on time. I can be astonished about that, and it is something that we must have a reasonable expectation that Post Nord will get right. Finally, I would like to say that the SF shares the admiration of the Social Democrats that the government has not been better at acting as a collective and thus resolving the problems of the amendments to the interpretations of the VAT rules. However, as the proposal stands, the SF will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027142415	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027142420	Of course, I have to ask the rapporteur, who is also the labour market rapporteur for the SF, what he says about the fact that representatives of the employees predict that the agreement reached here and in which the SF participates has an inherent danger that the future Post Denmark or Post Nord, or whatever it is called, will be based on temporary workers, on temporary workers and on hourly wages. This is not a good development, and perhaps that is exactly the problem: you actually come from a company with good, well-paid full-time jobs, and because the state is not prepared to pay what it may cost in a transitional period to maintain a good postal service, including for employees, then you have to resort to these forms of employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027142517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027142522	I think it is a real concern that employees in Post Nord may have. After all, we have a labour market which is breaking up in certain areas and where the employees are looking forward to a somewhat uncertain future, because the forms of employment that have been in stable companies such as Post Denmark in the past cannot in future deliver the type of work they have done so far. However, this is due to the fact that reality has changed and that new forms of employment are therefore emerging. In fact, I do not think there is much to be done in this area to see that it also moves on to what may be loose workers, more temporary work and worse pay and working conditions in general. But the answer is not that we then make an agreement where we post state money into maintaining a company that has good employment relationships. The answer must of course be that we trust that the trade union organizations are able to take action in order and regulated contractual relations, including in the companies entering the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027142626	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027142629	Why is it so remote to think that it might well be that the state should invest in continuing to maintain a professional postal company with good forms of employment and good wages for the employees, knowing that things are of course changing and that digitalisation is progressing, but that we are investing in a transitional period so that we do not get unfair competition from postal companies, packing companies, or what it is all called, which largely uses underpaid labour? Not all of them do, but a lot.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027142706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027142708	Well, quite new in this area, it is now not that we have other operators. After all, we have had bidding centres in Denmark for 100 years, where we have had private people running around with packages, so that is not unusual. But I just don't think it's the answer to the challenge to say that because we think it's difficult what it does because we can have good reasons to have strong feelings for people who come from good, well-paid, well-ordered conditions and who now come into a much more uncertain market, we put government money into maintaining jobs more or less for the sake of jobs. I don't think that's a line that lasts. The answer must be that we trust that the professional organisations are strong enough to defend proper working conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027142747	Thank you to the rapporteur. This brings the rapporteur's line to a conclusion and gives the floor to the Minister for Transport and Building. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027142756	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, first of all, to the rapporteurs for the speeches. It is of course the case that when we are here with a bill today, it is due to the fact that on 3 May 2016 agreement was reached on the framework for Post Denmark's provision of the national postal service, the so-called universal service, between 2017 and 2019. A majority of Parliament's parties are behind the agreement. One might well ask: Why was it not done before? I can only say that I have been working on it all along while I have been sitting in the ministerial chair, but I share the view that there was no reason why for three and a half years the agreement on Post Denmark was left behind when you could see that it was a deficit every year. It is a lack of due diligence. Otherwise, of course, it should have been started immediately. I would like to draw your attention to page 10 of our agreement, which states: "The State's agreement with Post Denmark on the provision of universal service runs as before over a 3-year period, and thus expires at the end of 2019. The Conciliation Committee shall meet in due time before the expiry of the said Agreement to discuss developments in the postal market and the universal service after 2019. If the development of the postal market and the consequences for Post Danmark's economy regarding the provision of the universal service so warrant, the conciliation circle will meet at an earlier stage. It was something that should have been done before, with due care, and one could easily have done so, but one did not. I just want to say that I do not think that this is the way to deal with such things. The problems don't go away just because you don't want to see them. And I have to say that I think there have been several things we have had to go in and look at, and here is one of them. I hope that together we will ensure that we help each other to do so in the future in the way that the government has proposed, at least, and which I also understand that a large majority is behind it. I have to say here that the vast majority of the agreed adjustments to the universal service have been implemented administratively by granting a new individual authorisation to Post Danmark A/S with effect from 1 July of this year. Home flour is found in section 15 of the Postal Act. 1. Under the law, the Minister is authorised to lay down administrative conditions for the provision of the universal service in accordance with the relevant policy agreements. The administrative adjustments made to the universal service shall include, inter alia: the abolition of the "A' letter as a universal letter, the abolition of the name "B' letter, which is now called "B' letter, amended the service requirements for letters to be delivered within 5 days against the previous 4 days, the possibility of reducing the number of delivery days to 5 working days per week, and distribution may be omitted on interdays, as well as a clarification that the mail delivery is made to the recipient's population register address. Finally, 23 smaller islands will be able to obtain their own postal code. This is something that particularly pleases me, because for three and a half years I had the pleasure of being chairman of the Rural Committee here in the Folketing, and I have to say that when we visited the islands, and we did so every year, yes, they said on several of the islands that they would like to do so. I would like to thank all the parties for finally making this reality. The draft law amending the postal code that we are discussing today translates, as I said, those parts of the political agreement of 3 May 2016 that require amendment of the law. The draft law deals with the abolition, as I said, of the so-called compensation system, and at the same time the decided change of the name B letter to letter is incorporated into the postal code. Therefore, as from the 2017 financial year, i.e. the 2017 financial year, it will no longer be possible for Post Danmark to submit a request to receive contributions from the compensation scheme to cover net costs by providing the universal service. This is a key element of the political agreement of 3 May 2016. Post Denmark has requested contributions from the Scheme for both financial years 2014 and 2015 in respect of letters and any request from Post Denmark for contributions for the financial year 2016 will only be made in 2017 when the annual accounts for 2016 are available. However, as is also described in the comments to the draft law, point 3.1.2, page 3 on the procedure for examining the request from Post Danmark A/S, it takes a certain amount of time before the requests made may be finalised. The example in the bill shows that amounts in relation to an intended request for contributions for the financial year 2016 may not be charged to other postal operators authorised for commercial postal services until 2019 and paid to Post Danmark. That's the arrangement. However, as mentioned above, the compensation scheme will be abolished with effect from the financial year 2017 and this means that Post Denmark will in future not be able to claim contributions to cover the net costs of providing the universal service. I would like to draw attention to what some criticised. Now I see that they are not all here in the Chamber anymore. It is a pity, because it is the case that if you criticise someone, it is a good rule to stay here so that you can also hear why things have gone as they are. The fact is that there was a comment that SKAT has behaved in a way that was not found to be particularly accommodating to Post Denmark. Now I have the basic rule, and of course you do not have to comply with it in the Folketing, but I would nevertheless say that the rule that I am trying to live by is that rules and laws apply to everyone. It is not the case that because you have a special relationship with Post Denmark and think that they should feel a little easier about everything, we can then start to change the rules. They also have to follow the rules that lie there. That's why we agreed with each other, and it's on page 9, almost at the bottom of the process section: The agreement has been made without the parties having any influence on SKAT's possible change of practice on VAT, so we knew all about that, as we sat there, it's Post Danmark's expectations and I'm just taking it back again, it's Post Danmark's expectations, and it's fine that Post Danmark has an expectation, but it has nothing to do with what we legislate about • that SKAT's further progress is part of serious discussions within the legal framework to find practical solutions, which in fact relieve Post Denmark of the negative consequences of the possible abolition of the rule. I'm just asking, when you discuss something like this, that you consider whether it wouldn't be much nicer, that we just relate to what we signed ourselves instead of discussing something quite different. We were all fully aware that this was something that the SKAT would set within the legal framework. We were also all aware that it was not something that we could go in to discuss, as it belongs to the SKAT. I have to say that, of course, I agree with the tax minister on the points that the tax minister has made, but that does not change the fact that that is also what we agreed with each other. That is why I would just like to say that it is a criticism that has been put to the test. Then there was a question for me from Mr. Henning Hyllested, and I'd like to answer that. It is a question about Danish Blind Society. It is true that since the day-to-day letters are no longer part of the universal service, Post Denmark has decided that blind shipments can no longer be sent free of charge from day to day. Of course, you could have decided that you would anyway, but you have decided that you will not. However, they can continue to be sent free of charge as regular letters with up to 5-day shipping time. Following this, there is an ongoing dialogue between Danish Blind Society, Nota, which is a library of readers and Post Denmark on the practical possibilities of sending blind messages. I think, sir. Henning Hyllested raises an issue which is very topical, relevant and serious, and I would like to say to Mr Hylllested. Henning Hyllested, that I would like to help us try to keep Post Denmark up on whether there was no possibility that one could somehow support that organisation. I think I'll share sir. Henning Hyllested's view that those people have already been affected, since they do not have the same opportunities as the rest of us for every day to seek knowledge, etc. in various other ways, but is left to some special ways to do it, and therefore it might be a good idea to look at whether Post Danmark could not find a solution to it. But I think we should just wait and see what they find out, and then I think we can get back to it again, and I am very concerned that we can. Even though I do know that sir... Henning Hyllested is outside the conciliation circle, so I now take the view that if anyone brings in some good kicks, whether they are outside or within the conciliation circle, there is reason to listen to them. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027143729	Thank you, Minister. There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027143738	Thank you. I'd like to start by signing the minister to take care of this. It was not a question of doing it; it was a question of doing it. And that was five minutes to twelve, otherwise perhaps we would have been in a situation where we would not have had any postal services at all if it had been overturned, and thus also had an obligation to the thousands of officials affected by it. My question is this: now it has been stated from several places that, according to these new rules, it has been introduced and I am fully aware that, of course, we should also get to know the product and so on. etc. a hospital sends a letter to an elderly person and costs the money to send a quick letter, and then it does not arrive so that the elderly person does not get his summons to the hospital, and there may also be an entire medical team waiting for him. Does the Minister have a dialogue with PostNord that this is being tightened up?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027143838	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027143841	Well, I just want to say that when I, together with the rapporteurs here, make a bill that makes up for the opportunities that Post Danmark has to run a good business because that's what we do and we all agree in the conciliation circle that we know that we reduce some relationships for people, then I feel that if I make some agreements with people and I experience that I have made an agreement with Post Danmark, then of course you live up to delivering the product you provide, and I have no understanding that you don't. I also have good experience of the fact that the rapporteur and I have had meetings with Post Denmark, and we have discussed out there the common experiences we have had with those points. And on the basis of the questioner's proposals here, I shall ensure that we hold a meeting where, like the last meeting, we discuss with Post Denmark what things we have noticed and what representations we have received, and the easiest way is always to do so face to face. So, on the basis of the question here, I will ensure that such a meeting is held; then we can discuss this matter together.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027143939	Sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027143942	I am very pleased with the Minister's approach, because it is of course important that this should work, not only for social reasons, but in particular for the sake of those who may lose out on an operation which may have an impact on the ability or otherwise. So I am very aware that we will talk ourselves into it so that we are sure that the product will be delivered.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027144011	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027144014	Well, I'm confident that when Mr. Simpson does... Henrik Brodersen raises cases, is the serious case ^ as is usually the case when he raises cases and then we have to see if we can find a solution to it. I would be grateful if we could put this on the agenda when we meet with PostNord.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027144024	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027144028	Thank you. What I would like to hear from the Minister, and I have put a written question to the Minister about it, is that, in view of their poor economy, Post Denmark thought that enough funds were available now, we also hear that blind consignments are being saved and so on. Apparently, you have the means to do that, something I call it tan and pussy. On top of that, I believe that there is a little impure trot in relation to that period of agreement and when it was actually decided that they should not be red any more but I can ask that another time. But I have received the reply from the Minister that it does not want Post Danmark to disclose. This means that Post Danmark does not want to inform one of their major shareholders of how much money they have spent on the marketing campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027144133	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027144136	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027144140	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027144141	That's a short answer. But I should then be able to ask the Minister. Should there not be some openness about that? In the near future we will probably also see bike races again, where Post Danmark is the great sponsor of Post Danmark Round Denmark may now be, it will be called Post Norden Rundt, it will be quite a bike ride, but leave it alone. But as a major shareholder in this state company, where employees are fired out there, there are people who lose their jobs, there must be an opportunity to find out what they have spent on these phenomena and what they want to spend on them in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027144215	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027144218	Now I would like to say that I always make every effort to answer all Members of Parliament in good and thorough terms to their written questions, including Mr. Kim Christiansen, so I actually wrote myself at the presentation that I would like to know if I could instruct, so give an instruction that I wanted the figure indicated. So I was told I couldn't. But I think it is, sir. Kim Christiansen says here today, because of course it is very sensible, because once you as a politician have to lay your back on making savings and reductions etc., and then you see some things that you might have known before, so that you could at least take it into account before you started to measure up to such things, then I can understand it. That is why I must ensure that this is also on the agenda at the meeting we have with PostNord.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027144300	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027144304	That is what happens when companies are turned into private companies. Then you can't just go and ask in the east and west and get a lot of information. We have, of course, the same situation in the railway sector. Nor can we get the same information from Arriva that we can get from DSB. Let it go. I am very, very pleased with the answer given by the Minister of Transport to the question of the elderly. I could, of course, say that it could be that we could push a little to Post Denmark if we now come up with an amendment in connection with the legislative procedure here that that is the way it should be. You could imagine. But that's a really good answer, and I'm really happy about that, and I think there are a lot of people in Danish Blind Society and, at all, out among the blind in our society who are happy about it. Then I would like to say about VAT: Well, we are changing the conditions for Post Denmark. That's what's happening. I agree with the Minister that the conditions must be the same. There must be fair conditions, and that is what I said in my rapporteur's speech. Therefore, I perhaps think that what can be criticised is that an agreement was not waited until, what should be said, the Treasury was involved, so Post Danmark was aware of what the future brings, also financially. There are not many private companies who will put up with not knowing their economy such 3-4-5 months or 1⁄2 years in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027144427	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027144430	Well, I admit it's an advantage you lose. It's an advantage PostNord loses. But I just have to say that it was after a complete consideration that we should not be able to keep in our own world exactly what we are doing here when we decide what PostNord can do. We must not link this to the question of how to stand in a tax-technical matter, because SKAT is one part and this is another. So it wasn't something we were just thinking about: it was completely considered; it had to be done this way, so that this was decided for itself. Therefore we wrote in that it was Post Danmark's expectation that there was a discussion with SKAT. That is, of course, to say that we are so aware of that. But we didn't want to go any further, because we thought it was mixing things up.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027144527	Then we thank the Minister. There is no more... yes, there is another brief remark from Mr. Henning Hylllested. I'm sorry I missed that. Sir. Henning Hylllested, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027144535	Thank you. However, the arrangements that are to be implemented in relation to VAT will have an impact on Post Danmark's economy. And the whole reason for doing these service impairments that are now being done is because Post Danmark has a completely fried and ruined economy, you might say. That is why I think things are connected anyway. It may well be that there is something purely legal-technical that makes you not to mix things up, but the moment you sit and make a political agreement on the basis of a bad economy in Post Denmark, I think that, for the sake of Post Denmark, you could reasonably take, if I may say so, the Treasury in oath of what the future is really in this field. 'Cause that could make Post Denmark's economy worse. Thank you, Mr. President. Henning Hylllested! ) quite violently in addition to what it already looks like.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027144629	Sometimes when you forget the second round with Mr. Henning Hyllested, it may be, it is because he uses both laps' speaking time in the first place. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027144639	Thank you. Well, that is why we have written it in as the last sentence of the conciliation text: Incidentally, if developments in the postal market and the consequences for Post Danmark's economy regarding the provision of the universal service so warrant, the conciliation circle will meet at an earlier stage. It is precisely to make sure that we take that into account. But may I just say to Mr. Henning Hyllested, that I also intend to look at the debate, and we can do so during the committee procedure, about all the elderly or those with difficulty, who have actually been promised mail to the door, now also get it. I say this because I know that the committee has received some letters, and so have I, and I will take them with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027144710	We thank the Minister very much. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027144727	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027144743	It is true that this bill is about securing the construction of a new railway to Aalborg Airport. It's kind of a really good and positive story we've got going on here. The fact is that for a number of years it has been the case that you just outside Lindholm Station had a preparation station standing, which caused a lot of noise for the neighbors who lived in the area. I've been over several times and I've been trying to get this prep station moved. It has been a big case in the North Jutland media, where one has thought: Why is it that DSB has such a preparation station standing so close to private residence? What does that have to do with a railroad to the airport? Yeah, I'll tell you. The fact is that at some point one thought: could one imagine that this preparation station, where it makes a lot of noise when the trains are cleaned, could be moved to Aalborg Airport, where there is already relatively much noise from aircraft and other things? If you did, you could also have a railway built, as in the past. Then there was a railway section out there, and that could mean that you could also get the great benefit from more coherent traffic, which is also known from, for example. Copenhagen Airport, where a station was opened in 1998 at Copenhagen Airport. So it is a good example of policy at its best, namely that you have some challenges and some problems that you use to create new opportunities. Not only will you move a preparation station that makes noise and noise in Lindholm, but you will also create a new railway line to Aalborg Airport, which will certainly lead to a huge increase in the passenger base compared to Aalborg Airport. Critics have said if it wasn't as easy just to take a bus to the airport or if you couldn't take your car or anything else. I think there are a lot of critics who have been looking at the fact that people in the Aalborg area are going to Aalborg Airport. But what is the whole concept here is that we have to see the major important railway line for us, which goes from Copenhagen in the east to Aalborg in the northwest, and that there is thus a stretch where there are two important airports at both ends. So on the entire stretch, whether you are in Odense, in Vejle or in Aarhus, you can choose to drive either east or northwest, and then there is access to an airport where you can fly out into the world. Aalborg Airport has established a cooperation with, among others. Amsterdam airport, where there are air links to virtually the whole world. With this new train connection, Aalborg Airport has thus ensured an even better opportunity to become an important international airport for Denmark and for the entire route that is here, and this will mean that you will be able to attract even more passengers than you have already skilfully done at Aalborg Airport. Aalborg Airport is one of the airports in Denmark which has had the most growth if not it It is clear that this development will be even better when, with the hopefully soon to come third Limfjord connection, you will also have access to the Mortorway connection much more directly to the airport. There is therefore a huge potential in this connection, and it will ensure what is called intermobility in a bold technical word, and that is something we attach great importance to in the transport group: there must be more coherent traffic, traffic opportunities must be able to lift each other and help each other. We have also seen how much it has worked in Copenhagen, where 20,000 passengers use the train connection every year to Copenhagen Airport. It cannot be compared to Aalborg, but it will still be able to lift really, very much away in small size. It has been in the debate that some have asked: Well, isn't it just a fucking Bolshey that North Jutland has got instead of getting the third Limfjord connection? There's no way it is. We must be aware that this very, very broad settlement back from 21 March 2013 which is behind this, is agreed between all parties in the Folketing except the Enhedslisten. There it is agreed that we should have trains to the airport in Aalborg. These are the same parties who also want to promote that we should have a third Limfjord connection, so they have had no interest in opposing that project. That's one thing. The second point is that the amount to be spent on creating the new rail link is something like a four-thousand of the cost that would be associated with a third Limfjord connection. So it's not like if you dropped this project, you could spend that money making a third Limfjord connection. That's what I could say in this important case. I would have liked to have made even more of all the important arguments in this matter, because it is a very good proposal and, as a Socialist rapporteur, I am very pleased that we support this proposal. I have promised, on behalf of the Radical Left, that they will also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027145311	Thank you very much to the Social Democrat rapporteur. We move on to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027145321	Thank you. For the Danish People's Party too, this is a day of joy. I remember back in 2009, when we would have liked to have set aside money to carry out a feasibility study on a runway service of the two major provincial airports, Billund and Aalborg. A little bit was pulled on the smile ribbons. In fact, we also asked about Aarhus Airport, i.e. the airport at Tirstrup. It turned out to be a little more difficult than the other two. Today we are here to adopt a construction law for Aalborg Airport. Hopefully we will also have to pass a law on the runway to Billund Airport before such a terrible time. But as Mr. Rasmus Prehn mentioned, there was a railway on this stretch before. It was the old mountain slope between Fjerritslev and Thisted. In fact, I think it is fortunate that some of the old trace is hit, so there is a bit of historical wingsus about it too. There is no doubt that this is very important for Aalborg Airport. I remember that after we made the settlement, it didn't take many months until agreements were made to build a hotel at Aalborg Airport. Aalborg Airport itself has said that you make some covers etc. Up there. There is no doubt that this has really given a boost to Aalborg Airport. Then I have also seen that there is an amendment on the way. I have to ask the Minister why the construction period is now suddenly being moved, so that instead of being finished in 2019 it will be finished by 2020. The amendment then says that it is because of the signal programme. As I have just heard in the recent briefing on the signal programme, it could very, very easily be much more delayed than by a year. I hope that we will be able to clarify this during the work of the committee. It is possible that there is a small increase in completing it in 2019 in order to later change it in relation to the signal program, but we may also be able to clarify what this increase might amount to. So, with these comments, we are looking forward to adopting a bill here and getting started on the construction of a runway for Aalborg Airport.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027145544	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027145555	Thank you. With the bill here we have come on the trail of a new railway line in Denmark. The draft law is about the adoption of a construction law for the construction of a new railway to Aalborg Airport and associated facilities. This is a follow-up to the broad traffic policy agreement of March 2013, when we set aside 278 million. kr. for the purpose. The bill helps strengthen Aalborg Airport as an important traffic hub in North Jutland. The airport is well connected to the rest of the main rail network, and Aalborg Airport, as Denmark's third largest airport, is of great importance both locally and regionally. This applies to citizens and businesses in North Jutland. With this railway it will thus be easier to get to and from Aalborg Airport, and the airport will be better connected to the rest of the region. People coming from the south by train will experience shorter travel time when they go to the airport. But I predict that there are still a lot of people who will still take their cars when they have to fly from Aalborg Airport. Many Jutes are fond of their car, and one thing the Jutes are in any case very happy about is when there is free parking. That's right at Aalborg Airport. So there will still be many who take the car, even though there are now some who take the train. The bill specifically means that a 3 km long single-track railway will be built from Lindholm Station to a new station at Aalborg Airport. Then the preparation plant at Lindholm Station will be moved to the airport. It has the great advantage that the current noise at Lindholm Station inside the city can be significantly reduced. The railway will later have to be electrified as part of the electrification programme and therefore the railway will be prepared for this electrification in connection with the works. All in all, it is a good bill that follows up our broad political agreement, and the Left supports the bill. I must inform you that my Conservative colleague, Rasmus Jarlov, also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027145818	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027145830	As one of the most disgusting modes of transport one can almost imagine, air traffic is not exactly at the top of Enhedslisten's priority list when investing in collective transport modes. However, we must recognise that air traffic has come to an end and therefore the effort must be to reduce aircraft's fuel consumption and to come up with new and more sustainable non-fossil fuels in the future. If it cannot be otherwise, it is of course reasonable that the country's third largest airport can be served by train, as is the case with the airport in Copenhagen, which is of course the country's largest, and it should also be the case with the second largest airport, namely Billund. As you know, a new track from Vejle to Billund is part of the Danish Railway Foundation, but with the government's very negative attitude to the Danish Railway Fund despite an intact majority behind it, it has become unnecessarily difficult to establish this track, and then we can get the strange situation that the second largest airport in the country and Jutland, Billund, are without train service, while Aalborg will be served by a remote train. There is no doubt, as the submission indicates, that the service of Aalborg Airport will be an attractive link for many charter, leisure and business travellers from Eastern Jutland in particular. But we now believe that the supply area can easily become larger parts of Jutland and Funen. It depends essentially on whether Aalborg Airport is able to attract attractive routes and charter destinations. I will admit that it will not be easy, because the competition from not least Billund Airport will continue to be quite tough. But a new path does not make it any more difficult, on the contrary. Many Jutlanders spend both 3 and 4 hours getting to Copenhagen airport to fly away, and some of that power can go the other way if you have an attractive offer. The consultations do not give rise to any major comments, although I share the Council on Sustainable Transport's wish that the track can also be used as part of local traffic on Aalborg Near track and thus become an attractive alternative for people from the local area and, above all, from Aalborg city, who work at the airport or who have to fly from and to the airport. I understand Banedanmark predicts a bit of congestion on the track if, in addition to IC trains, there are also local trains, but we must hope that DSB and Nordjyske Railways respectively Nordjyllands Trafikselskab will then be able to figure out how to make it work. Happily, it is in any case that the electrification that comes on that part of the line is prepared at one or the same time. In general, it is necessary that the funds allocated in Togfonden DK to improve the track from Aalborg to Hjørring are approx. 110 million kr. Investments in sidetracks and conversions at Hjørring Station must make it possible to get the freight service going by Hirtshals and Frederikshavn, not least their ports, so that it does not collide with passenger trains on the line. It will therefore also contribute to the possibility of a more comprehensive train service of all North Jutland. There is no doubt that if Enhedslisten could decide, we would prefer to improve the existing runway between Aalborg and Hjørring before we would invest in the new runway for Aalborg Airport. But the new path here is therefore decided in a conciliation circle in which we do not participate, so it is not really in our power to change the priorities. However, there should be no doubt that the Enhedslisten will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027150221	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027150227	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance is a party to the March 2013 agreement where it was decided, together with a number of other projects, to build a new railway to Aalborg Airport from Lindholm Station on a total of 3 km. We believe that it is very positive for airport mobility that this investment is being made. This is a much needed boost and, as we read the proposal and the route chosen, account has been taken of a possible third Limfjord connection, as well as the environmental and recreational interests on the route, as well as a gentle expropriation of just 4.7 ha. Against this background, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027150315	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Roger Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027150332	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sorry about the long walk. L 15 is about a new runway to Aalborg Airport. As Enhedslisten, we are in favour of rail, but we may also find it a little problematic with air transport. In fact, we are very pleased with globalisation because it binds the world better together, but we are really sorry that the government has cut the EUDP funds for green research into biofuels for air transport. Having said that, I would like to say that we naturally support the draft law which secures the Aalborg Airport facility. And it is so good that several challenges with noise have been brought together at Lindholm Station and that we have now been connected to two airports with our central grid. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027150435	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027150446	For the individual passenger, the journey is connected. You want to come from one place to another. That is why, wherever we can get to it, we must be better able to think all modes of transport together, including trains and aircraft. It is clear that the bill will lift Aalborg, but it is also good for total traffic that we are spreading opportunities to travel abroad from different places in the country. It is good that we have a coherent traffic with as few shifts as possible and with as few waste breaks along the way as possible. I would like to make one comment, Mr President, following on from the rapporteur of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament. Rasmus Prehn, on the third Limfjord connection. As the SF sees it, it shouldn't be involved in this debate. We see a number of major environmental consequences especially for nature on Egholm, and therefore we see no connection between our support for this bill and our opposition in a different context to a third Limfjord connection over Egholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027150559	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then I give the floor to the Minister for Transport and Building.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027150603	Thank you, sir. President. First of all, I would like to thank you for the many positive statements made in the draft law. After all, the draft law proposes that a new railway be set up for Aalborg Airport so that the airport is connected to the main rail network. It should be remembered that Aalborg Airport is the third largest airport in Denmark and that it has great local and regional significance for the business community and the citizens of North Jutland. A rail link to Aalborg Airport can be an attractive connection for many business, charter and leisure travellers from a large part of eastern Jutland. In fact, it is expected that around 200,000 travellers will use the railway every year, and these travelers will then have a shorter journey time to the airport. And if you arrive from the south by train, you will also avoid a change in Aalborg, as the airport will be served by train from the district traffic. Major construction projects such as this will often have need for expropriation during the construction phase, and we have listened to the citizens and colonial garden associations in the area, and a plant technical solution has been chosen to minimise the need for expropriation. Thus, with the route chosen, it will not be necessary to expropriate private homes in connection with the installation. However, it will be necessary to expropriate two colonial garden houses, and the municipality of Aalborg has stated that there are vacant colonial gardens in the area, so that the affected colonial gardeners can acquire new colonial garden houses in the area with the compensation they receive in connection with the expropriation. The construction work is planned to start at the end of 2016 and will be completed so that the new railway can be put into service in connection with the deployment of the signal programme by 2020. I note here that an amendment has been submitted to the draft law which takes into account the updated roll-out plan of the signal programme. I would like to thank you once again for the positive statements to the draft law. This draft law on the construction of a new railway to Aalborg Airport is a really good news for citizens and businesses in North Jutland. I visited the area myself this summer, and that was also the experience I had there. This will help to support the continued development of Aalborg Airport, which is a local and regional hub for air traffic. I look forward to the further examination of the draft law and, of course, I am prepared to answer questions in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027150819	There are no requests for short remarks, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027150837	The debate is open and I give the floor to the first rapporteur. Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027150903	Thank you for that, President. The tourism industry is important for Denmark; tourists provide jobs and development opportunities throughout the country and therefore also the places where growth has more difficulty getting hold of. In the social democracy we want to help create a good framework for growth in tourism. We want a country that is more connected and where everyone comes along, and that is why we always want to help to see how the wheels get even more up and how to get more people to come here. So when we were in government, we made ourselves a series of growth teams, among others. for tourism. The proposal here is to relax the electricity tax on rides, so that they are no longer equated with liberal professions, in an attempt to promote tourism. The bill estimates that it will cost 40 million. kr. in small amounts of revenue and a permanent loss of 20 million. kr. The last time the proposal was debated in this Chamber, the assessment from the Treasury was somewhat higher, at least if it is all rides, including theatre performances and cinema performances, as is proposed here today. This is, of course, one of the things we would like to see drilled into the committee's proceedings, so why there is that difference. In addition, we are currently negotiating on the PSO system and how we finance the green transition. Of course, we must expect this to have an impact on the very companies that are elusive and that we are also talking about today. We want to be sure in the social democracy that nothing is done with one hand without knowing what the other hand is doing. So in considering the proposal, we would therefore like to look at what the abolition of the PSO will mean in concrete terms. However, the draft law also includes other proposals that we regard as minor adjustments. This applies to the proposal on insurance companies, which can again be deducted from the special bonus provisions, i.e. to the continuation of the rules that have been adopted in the past but which require a change of law due to the Solvency II Directive. The same applies to the valuation of the assets of cooperative societies, whether owned by the cooperative or through a subsidiary. In the past, cooperatives could use the property tax rate, but as you know, we abolished it back in 2015. We in the Social Democratic Party were pleased about this, and we did so, among other things. in order to close a tax gap, but also to ensure a uniform and fair valuation by inheritance and gift and to avoid that valuation hits as far from the trading value as the asset tax rate turned out to be. The left was against the asset tax rate in the past, but I would like to welcome the fact that the legislation is now being adapted to the fact that we do not have a wealth tax rate anymore. And we take it as a final signal from the government that it has been abandoned. In relation to the two measures to ensure that tax legislation cannot be applied in a different way from that intended, that is to say, the issue of tax-free divisions without the authorisation of SKAT and the issue of ensuring that the tax losses of bankrupt companies cannot be exploited, we naturally support it. Then I have promised to greet the Radicals, who are at the negotiating table, and to say that they are, as a starting point, positive, but they will also use the committee procedure to ask some detailed questions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027151229	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027151245	This bill, L 25, deals with several different things, and the first one I want to mention is an element of the agreement between the government and the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, on growth and development throughout Denmark, and this element is about relaxation of the electricity tax for amusements. We in the Danish People's Party think this is very positive. It is the case that rides move forward towards a more relaxed system of electricity used for process purposes, and it is a good thing in the sense that it provides better conditions of competition for our amusement parks, such as those in the United Kingdom. a water park so that they can compete more effectively with foreign parks. And very logically it has the derived effect that there will be more attractive conditions for the industry, just as it would be better for tourists to choose Denmark rather than elsewhere, and it is thus positive if we get more tourism in Denmark. So it's a really good move. Then there are a number of other elements in the bill. And that is, among other things, that life insurance companies are deducted from special bonus provisions. Bonus provision is, of course, funds set aside for retirement, but there are special conditions for covering losses for investments. It is a middle point, you might say, between equity and provisions for insured persons, who will then have to have the money later. And, as I understand it, it has happened that the European Union has changed some rules, which means that it cannot be deducted, but we change that, so that we get the deduction anyway, and that is probably quite reasonable. Then there is something about cooperative societies that can, in the future, determine the value of their unlisted shares on the basis of the value of the equity. I would say that when you read such a line immediately, you might think it might look a little cryptic. But it's actually not that bad when you dive into it. Because it is probably so translated into ordinary Danish that when the rule of property tax was abolished, it resulted in the unintended fact that these cooperatives would receive the high tax rate, and it is changed to come back to what was the original before the asset tax rate was removed. And that is quite positive as well. Then there are a number of other small elements in the proposal to which I have nothing to say, so I will conclude by saying that the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027151519	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027151531	Thank you for the floor. The Left would like to improve the framework conditions for business and help make it easier and cheaper to operate in Denmark to improve competitiveness and growth opportunities. With this bill, we want to reduce the tax on entertainment companies, including theatre performances and cinema performances etc. We propose that these amusement companies be reimbursed the electricity tax down to 0.4 cents per annum. kilowatt-hour. The aim is to extend the circle of companies that can apply the general rules on process reimbursement in the electricity tax law. It benefits parts of the business community and contributes to growth and development throughout Denmark. This is part of the agreement on growth in the whole of Denmark, as mentioned earlier, and it is simply because there are a great many of these leisure establishments around the countryside and they need growth to such an extent. In addition, we propose to relax the elements of business taxation. It is proposed separately in tax legislation to ensure that life insurance companies are again deducted from the special bonus provisions. The earlier valuation was raised when Benny Engelbrecht, then Minister of Taxation, removed the asset tax rate. And now we are giving the companies the opportunity to rediscount the value of unlisted shares on the basis of the tax value of the equity. In addition, an amendment to the Merger Tax Act's rules on tax-free divisions has been proposed without the permission of SKAT. We are aware that the rules can now be circumvented, and this amendment must therefore ensure that the tax rules work properly so that we avoid circumvention of the rules. On behalf of the Left, I must inform you that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027151714	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Rune Lund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027151733	In the Enhedslisten, we have not finished our position in relation to the bill here. But there are some things that we are in favour of, and then there are some things that we have some further questions about or are a little bit negative towards • I can say. The Enhedslisten was not part of the agreement on growth and development in the whole of Denmark. It is from this that the proposal to relax the electricity tax on rides comes, and it has to be said that it is not the largest item in the state budget. The bill is expected to cost 40 million. kr. I would also like to thank Mrs Lea Wermelin for her excellent report. For as the draft law stands here, the lasting effect after retreat and behavior will then be 20 million. kr. Is that the right amount, and how did you end up with this amount? We'd like to dive into that a little more. Then I must also say that we have asked ourselves whether the positive effects of this can really justify potentially greater electricity consumption to the detriment of the environment. This is linked to the Enhedslisten's view that instead of tax reductions that harm the environment and create more consumption, which then create more pollution and contribute further to climate change, we would rather use the money that is, to support targeted reconversion, to support energy-saving efforts as an alternative to tax reductions. It's our basic approach that makes us sceptical about this part of the bill. Then there is the next part which deals with the proposed adjustments to the location of the special bonus provisions in the accounts. So far, it has been the case that these special bonus provisions were placed under technical provisions. When special bonus provisions could be placed here, there was a deduction. But then we have the Solvency II Directive, and here the special bonus provisions will in future have to be placed under the surplus capital item, which will then no longer qualify for deduction. The aim of this bill is then to maintain the right to deduct. It says on page 9: In addition, the proposal to deduct special bonus provisions ensures that no unintended additional proceeds arise as a result of the change in the accounting location of special bonus provisions. One thing we would like to clarify is to find out what the size of this additional revenue could be. We are also going to ask that question, because this part of the legislative proposal suggests that the EU has actually closed a tax gap, and the bill will then prevent EU legislation from actually closing this tax gap. We'd like to dive into that something more. Then there are changes to the rules on tax-free divisions, and there we think it is positive if we can close a tax gap with the new rules. It is good that in future tax-free division should be granted to SKAT. We would like to see the necessary resources in the SKAT to carry out this task, and we would like to ask about that. SKAT gets a lot of new assignments these days. How much is this job going to burden the SKAT? I think it is generally important that we do not give SKAT any more tasks without the resources to carry out the task. We will also be asking about this in the course of the committee procedure. Then there is the proposal for new rules for the valuation of unlisted shares of cooperative societies, and that proposal has a highly technical nature. However, we agree on the part of Enhedslisten that it is not appropriate that the cooperative cooperatives should be taxed more heavily by having assets placed in subsidiaries rather than the assets being directly owned. So we are in favour of that part of the bill immediately. Then we are very positive about the proposal that co-taxation cannot be used in the event of bankruptcy, so that a lot of tax dollars can be saved by being jointly taxed with a bankruptcy company. It's a treasure hole that's really nice to close. Perhaps that is the best part of the legislative proposal if I am going to highlight something. Overall, therefore, there are several good measures in the draft law, but there are also a number of questions that we need answers to, so we have not finished our job. We have a number of reservations and there are a number of things that we think need to be looked into.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027152222	There is one brief comment, for the time being. It's from sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027152228	Thank you. I noticed that Mr. Rune Lund said he was worried about the climate, compared to relaxing the tax on electricity for rides, i.e. because it then pollutes more. But sir... Rune Lund doesn't agree with me that if a tourist jumps on a roller coaster in Germany or in Denmark, it probably doesn't matter? Does this not just mean that the tourist may then choose another country to go because it is cheaper to have a good time with his children? In other words, pollution is a cross-border phenomenon, so it is not so easy to simply say that because we relax the tax on electricity for amusements in Denmark, it is more polluting?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027152306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027152307	I would say that if this bill has a lasting effect, i.e. a cost to the Treasury of 20 million. kr. a year, I will probably question how much effect it will have on the number of tourists who may choose to go to Denmark or not choose to go to Denmark. For us, it is very important when we talk about the consumption of resources, and when we talk about energy savings, that the money we have is spent actively supporting a shift to green energy, or that we actively spend the money on energy improvements, which ensure that not as much energy is spent. For then we will have both the contribution to the green transition and the saving on the energy bill that companies want as well. And that is something we have seen over recent years. The massive shift to green energy, which is taking place with the PRS system we have today, has resulted in a much larger part of our energy today being produced as renewable energy, but it has also meant significantly lower energy prices, because the new amount of renewable energy has, in general, pushed electricity prices, and this also benefits companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027152418	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027152419	Now it is typically the case that a roller coaster uses power, and it is probably only an advantage for the green transition that you have several things that use power instead of others. gasoline, diesel, coal, whatever it may be. So I guess it's in the spirit of Enhedslisten, you should think you had it that way. And I guess a roller coaster consumes no matter whether it drives in Denmark or in Germany. So if you're so worried about the climate, I just don't understand why it should be the argument for saying no to that part. Incidentally, there is a quota system in the European Union that makes us use less power or other things, but there are just a few more quotas that can be used in Germany. So I just can't understand the concern that there should be more pollution, because now you make it more attractive for tourists to come to Denmark and go to the seashore, drive a roller coaster or other things. I think it is quite positive that we are now doing better for Danish tourism.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027152509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027152510	We would also like to improve the conditions for Danish tourism, but we would also like to use the taxpayers' crowns sensibly. We find it difficult to say that this tax reduction will create more tourists for the amusement parks because of the amounts involved. Then one could say that Enhedslisten could say that it is such a small amount, so we do not have to worry about that. However, we are of the opinion in principle that we are not in favour of reducing taxes on energy. We are in favour of using the money we spend to actively promote green conversion and actively promote energy-saving initiatives that help us to live in a more climate-friendly world.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027152547	The next question is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027152550	I will try to hear now, when the speaker is so concerned about energy, whether the energy in Denmark is more green than it is in Germany.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027152600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027152601	In other words, it depends on whether the questioner is thinking about the energy that we import through, for example. nuclear power from Sweden or from other parts of the world. But it is true that in Denmark we produce a large part of our energy as renewable energy, and this is due to the PSO system that we have here in Denmark, where both companies and citizens contribute to the green transition, so that we can invest in, for example. new wind turbines which contribute to more green energy and which also contribute to the reduction of electricity prices for companies over recent years. Unfortunately, this is an arrangement that the government would like to abolish, because the government would like it to be only the citizens who have to pay for the green conversion, and not the companies in relation to the PSO tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027152650	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027152651	As I understand the rapporteur, the rapporteur agrees that energy is basically more green in Denmark than it is in Germany. The way I have experienced many families when they are going to have a weekend or a mini holiday in an amusement park, for example. in Lalandia, it's either between Lalandia or a German water park. If we can change competitiveness so that the Danish water parks do not fall behind so much, would it not also mean that this holiday actually became a little more green?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027152722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027152723	Yes, but then it would be wiser for us to use the money we have and which is being set aside in this bill to make sure that we invest in measures that make amusement parks use less energy and thus achieve the same savings, rather than just reducing taxes on energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027152744	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the next rapporteur in line, and that is Mr Beazley. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027152752	With this bill, we're exempting amusement parks from Annex 1 to the Electricity Tax Act. We are very pleased that it was a wish that we had with us for the negotiations on growth and development throughout Denmark. The fact that the permanent loss of revenue is only 20 million rather than the immediate loss of revenue of 40 million is, of course, due to the fact that there are dynamic effects of reducing taxes. It will be cheaper to produce in this case the performance it is to provide rides. This means that more people come up in the roller coaster and get their wrinkles in their stomachs, more children get the opportunity to try this or want to take more trips. We really do think that Enhedslisten and other red parties should undo the Danish children's families. We are very pleased with that part of the proposal. Then the bill reintroduces the asset tax rate against the unlisted shares of cooperative societies. We do this in order to ensure neutral taxation of cooperatives so that they are not taxed more heavily by owning a smaller part of a subsidiary, for example. in relation to owning a subsidiary 100 per cent. In addition, we clarify the rules on tax-free divisions. In other words, when a company transfers some of its liabilities or shares to a new company, this bill specifies that it can only be done with the permission of SKAT. Finally, we change the co-tax rules so that a group cannot transfer losses from a bankrupt subsidiary. We do this in order to ensure that creditors are better protected in the event of the bankruptcy of a subsidiary. As I said, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027152955	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027153003	As several speakers have said, this is another bill which is quite a mixed country trade. On the part of the SF, we have not so many comments on the majority of these proposals, however, like Enhedslisten, I would also like to commend the proposal on co-taxation in the event of bankruptcy. This is really positive and good, but most of the other minor things we may also be able to support. We're gonna ask them some questions. However, I would like to say that it is difficult to deal with these legislative proposals when they stick in so many directions and there may be so many different views on them. But leave it for now. What I want to focus on is the relaxation of the electricity tax. I think it's untimely. We know very well from the SF that the government has made an agreement and that there is a majority, but it is incredibly untimely to make a proposal to relax the electricity tax when we do not have the PSO in place. It is the government's choice to remove the PSO, not to take the discussion with the European Commission, such as Germany. has done, and no one really knows yet how it is going to end. That is why it is something mysterious to say on the part of the government that, on the one hand, it would like to remove the PSO and some of the costs incurred by companies and, at the same time, would like to provide a further relaxation on top of it, i.e. a double relaxation. We do not know what is going to happen to the PSO, whether companies will end up having a certain obligation to spit in the common box to ensure the green transition. One might hope that the DF would come into play and say that it is not only taxpayers, that it is also companies that can contribute to it, one might hope so. However, when we do not have a solution to the problem of the PSP, it simply does not make sense to start climbing money away for relaxations for all kinds of purposes, which we may well consider to be really fine in isolation, rather than making an overall solution. I would also like to read out from the Minister's own note, which states, under environmental consequences, i.e. negative environmental consequences, that the proposal to reduce the electricity tax after reimbursement is expected to lead to an increase in electricity consumption in relation to amusement activities. Electricity production is covered by the EU quota trading system. Increased Danish greenhouse gas emissions will, according to the system over time, be neutralised by minor emissions elsewhere, and changes in Danish emissions within the quota sector will therefore not have an overall climate effect. However, a short- and medium-term climate effect is to be expected. What I think we should bear in mind here is that, because of less emissions elsewhere, it does not really matter, because then it will be neutralized. So I just want to ask a little polemical: Less discharge where? Well, we have a government that lags behind violently. We have only reached around 30%, where we should be heading for the 40%. We have a Paris agreement, which we all salute, in which there is a clear principle that we must not backtrack, that is to say we must not go back; we must not become less ambitious in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We must only move forward and ensure that, for the sake of climate change, we emit less. When we have a government that in this way backtracks that we are destroying Denmark's good reputation when it comes to being a green pioneer country, then we have to say as signatories of the Paris Agreement: No, we cannot backtrack. And when it says that because of other minor discharges elsewhere we can do this as well, I just think it's gonna be a little funny. Now, as others have said, this is not a huge proposal, nor an economic one. This will mean 20 million in the long term. kr. I agree with my colleague from the Enhedslisten that if we wanted to help Danish amusement parks, we could not spend the 20 million in a much wiser way, which helped them both financially, but which helped the climate to a greater extent, which helped the green transition. We from the SF would like to help Danish tourism along the way. We need that, but we can do it wisely and in a less wise way, and we think that the proposal here lays the foundations for the latter. So unless I apologize, President (Second Vice-President (Kristian Pihl Lorentzen) rises to indicate that speaking time is exceeded
ParlaMint-DK_20161027153517	Thank you. And for the time being, there is one comment, and it is from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027153523	I would just like to thank the rapporteur for reading it about the EU's quota system, because that is precisely the problem in a nutshell when you talk climate in Denmark. What Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is reading means that if we set up a windmill in Denmark, we improve the climate in Denmark and thus get less CO2 It is exactly the same way now that we allow the attractions to deduce something more by using some more power, but it has no climate effect, because you then do it the other way round. That is precisely the whole problem, and I would just like to sign that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen obviously agrees with it. She only mentions it when it's negative because they emit more, but it's the same problem. Because when the SF constantly stands and argues that we must set up one offshore wind farm after another, that we must always be climate-friendly, it has no effect precisely because of the EU's quota system. So I would just like to know whether she is not able to confirm again that the EU's quota system means that when we set up wind turbines, it has no effect on the climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027153625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027153627	So, I do not know whether the rapporteur's tirade intended me to agree with the rapporteur, but I am the EU's quota system is a huge joke. That's it. I think it's so embarrassing that we haven't found anything better long ago. But having said that, I would like to say to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, we have signed in Paris that we will abide by what we have signed up to ourselves. It was the whole idea of Paris, i.e. no one would beat other countries on top of their heads. We obviously cannot commit each other, so you should sign up for yourself, and then you have to commit to and abide by that, and Denmark has signed up for some goals that apply to Denmark, and we must respect them. Now it turns into a big discussion about a small corner of our energy policy, and in the long term it will hopefully be quite fine to use electricity the more electricity, the better because it will be greener. But so far, we just think we can spend that money wiserly, so that at the same time we help the amusement parks.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027153734	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027153736	I fully agree that the more electricity we can use, the better, and that is exactly what we are doing with this proposal. A roller coaster and Lalandia use a lot of electricity, and we then allow them to do so, and then they can use more of the green electricity in Denmark instead of perhaps more black energy production in Germany or elsewhere. It should, of course, be welcomed by the SF, because at the same time it recognises that the EU's quota system means that it does not mean anything purely CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20161027153811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027153812	I actually thought that with my first answer we could sort of get closer. Here I said that the quota system has huge errors and shortcomings, to put it diplomatically. If you were to say it a little more directly, it's quite a joke. But at the same time I also said that the fine, realistic thing about Paris is that we ourselves have entered some goals. We have done so ourselves, we have to live up to them, and we can do so in different ways. In principle, I would prefer us to give the amusement parks a blank cheque of 20 million. kr. and say: Do with them what you want, set prices down so you can attract more tourists. From a financial point of view, it would not make much difference, and there would still be an incentive to save on the river where you could.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027153855	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on, and the next one is Mr. Knox. Brian Mikkelsen as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027153903	We think it is a good proposal that the government has made and I will try to concentrate on what we think is the most important thing in the proposal, in other words that the electricity tax will be relaxed for rides. It is an outmoded piece of legislation, back in 1979. We have been trying to eliminate this discrimination over the last two or four years. We had it turned around with the Red Government, but there we did not get through with it, and fortunately we in the Conservative People's Party managed to get through this at the last negotiations we had with the government and the other conciliation parties. Why have we fought so hard to eliminate this discrimination? Yes, until today BonBon-Land, Lalandia, Parken, Fårup Sommerland, Sommerland Zealand etc. paid almost 1 kroner. in the case of levies per year; kilowatt-hour, but if you like... Going to Liseberg in Gothenburg, where I myself have been with my family, they pay 25 cents a year. kilowatt-hour. And this is a totally unfair competitive situation, because you then find that in Liseberg or in Germany or other countries with which we are in competition, they have another parameter that says that their basic costs are lower. This means that they can offer the families who come and visit the parks in Germany and Sweden lower prices than in Danish parks. What does that mean? Yes, that means that we are going to lose jobs, that we are going to lose revenue, that we are going to lose revenue and finance the society in which we live at home. So it's really, really good that we finally got it through. We have been fighting for this for a long time, and I am glad that we have now succeeded. There is also the interesting point of view that if you look at eight out of the 11 biggest amusement parks, you can say that they are located in the outskirts of Denmark, where it means a great deal with the jobs that are there • the jobs that also allow people to stay in those areas. So it is both a help for a better balance in Danish society and a help for lower prices in the amusement parks, so they can get a bigger turnover and employ some more people, and so we can keep some of the revenue at home. So, of course, we say 'yes' from the conservative side to the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027154138	Thank you. We thank the rapporteur and then it is the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027154149	Thank you for that, President. I would like to thank you for receiving the proposal, which I have noted there is at least a relatively broad support for. There are some parts of the bill for which there is broader support than others, but I think that all around there are parties that are actually enthusiastic about parts of the bill. In particular, Enhedslisten has found a part that was mentioned in positive terms, but not the whole proposal. After all, the government has the goal that we want to ensure better conditions for companies and want to pursue a policy in which we ensure growth and development throughout Denmark. And the bill, as a number of rapporteurs have also mentioned, implements part of the agreement that the government made with DF, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party on growth and development throughout Denmark. That is the part that is about us relaxing the electricity tax for rides of just over 90 cents per annum. kilowatt-time from 2017, i.e. from next year. The proposal removes the inappropriateness that rides are treated in the same way as liberal professions, for example. lawyers and accountants. At the same time, the circle of companies which can apply the general rules on process reimbursement laid down in the Electricity Tax Act will be expanded. The change will help create growth opportunities throughout the country, so that Denmark will not be divided into development areas and settlement areas. To put it a little bit more in imagery, it is the case today that what a law firm pays in the electricity tax of their coffee machine or their computer may not affect what to say about what developments can happen. It is, of course, expenditure, and it is a problem if the cost for the company increases, but it is not the increase in costs, the electricity tax they have to pay, that determines whether they have a profitable business. Those are some other things. If you take an amusement park it could be someone I've recently visited, namely Fårup Sommerland • Many of their rides are some where you use electricity and use quite a lot of electricity. And the fact that you can let go cheaper and maybe have to pay a 1⁄2, 1 or 2 million. kr. less in electricity tax, means that there is a 1⁄2, 1 or 2 million. kr. that you can reinvest in the park and that you can develop the amusement business that you have and create growth and jobs. I fully agree with Mr. Brian Mikkelsen in that some of these amusement parks, which so much benefit from this and have fought for it for many years, lie outside the major cities. Of course, there's a big one very close to our capital, Tivoli, who I think will also be thrilled about this, but as a starting point it's some people around the country. These are some tax savings that will help companies improve their framework conditions and can now spend this money hopefully reinvesting and developing their parks. That was the message I received when I visited Fårup Sommerland. I had rides and had a talk with the director up there. It is not money that you want to put in your pocket or have out as a profit. It is money that allows you to develop the business that you have. At least it is the Government's wish that that is what is happening. But in addition to that part of the bill, which thus improves the framework conditions for amusement parks and can create both happier owners of amusement parks, but also the happier users of amusement parks understood in the way that it can hopefully be cheaper to visit an amusement park, or that there may be more amusements to visit the park then there are a lot of other things in the bill. It is in addition to the things I have mentioned, the ambition of the government, that the tax rules must be as clear as possible in the individual areas so that companies know with reasonable certainty what is applicable. The tax rules are, of course, often complex, unfortunately, but the draft law helps to clarify a number of areas of business taxation. And the bill ensures that no change is made in the tax treatment of the special bonus provisions of life insurance companies, and ensures that the abolition of the asset tax rate does not result in a higher taxation of the unlisted shares of cooperative societies. In addition, the draft law must ensure that there is no unintentional application of the rules and that the tax rules are effective as intended. There are, of course, a large number of rapporteurs who have clarified some of these amendments, so I will not do that here in my ministerial speech, but I would like to thank you for the good and constructive debate and the statements that have been made here from the platform. Of course, I would very much like to answer the more technical questions, including on the calculation of revenue and other matters, which have been asked quite appropriately by a number of rapporteurs. In conclusion, I can also say to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen of the Socialist People's Party that I feel as Minister for Taxation that, if there is a party in the Folketing asking for the division of a bill, we are, of course, responding to it. So, if the SF so wishes, we will of course meet that wish. But it could also be that in committee we could agree to deal with the proposal together. But if it is a wish that is being made, we will, of course, respect it in the Treasury.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027154728	There is one brief comment from Mrs Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027154732	Thank you. It was actually because I became a little more curious to hear what this bill is covering precisely in relation to the reduction of the electricity tax. Because the Minister spent a lot of time talking about amusement parks, and there were also a few of the other rapporteurs who were involved in the agreement, but as I read the draft law, where, among other things, there were. says that it means that rides, including theatre performances, cinema performances etc. I would also like to point out that, in my rapporteur's speech, it is broader than those amusement parks, and that is why I referred to this issue. Because when we look at the calculations contained in the bill, namely what the loss of revenue will be, it does not correspond to the calculations made by the Treasury back in 2012. So I would really just like if the Minister could make me know whether it is not all rides that we are talking about, i.e. that it is wider than amusement parks, and if the Minister can then already reply to it about revenue calculations, otherwise we will of course ask for it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027154839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027154840	It is therefore an annex which makes a distinction between the companies with a low electricity tax and those who have to pay the high electricity tax, and in that annex, as I understand it, it is far from historically conditional on how the division has been, and the part we are now taking out of the annex is the one with cinemas and theatres. I think that, when the annex was made, it included cinemas and theatres, and since then the amusement parks have arrived, and that is the total lump that we are removing from this annex. If the whole annex were to be abolished, it would cost half a billion, and that is something quite different here. But in this category, by far the biggest consumers of electricity are those amusement parks that use relatively much electricity. Although a cinema and a theater of course use electricity, it is therefore a very limited part of their costs. And in relation to revenue calculations, I would be happy to reply to that in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027154950	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027154951	We will look forward to that. For now I just found the speech from the former minister from 2012 where I can see that it says that rides are excluded in general, the revenue loss according to the Treasury's calculations is approx. 110 million kr... and then we'll have to elaborate on what's up and down. The second part I would like to ask about is the whole question of the PSO, which we also mentioned a little in connection with the rapporteur's speeches. Has the Minister calculated what the abolition of the PSO will mean for the companies we are just talking about here? Because one has to assume that it is also some of the things that will benefit those companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027155029	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027155030	Now it is the case that a company's electricity consumption is not publicly available, and I do not think it is an information that should be publicly available either. But you can get to know that the company can tell you what power consumption a company has in kilowatt hours, and then you can see that there is a 90 øre relief. On top of that, you have to put in a PSP concession, where the PSP has been abolished, i.e. a PSP that has been fully phased in and abolished over 6 years, and then it is about 24 or 25 cents. I do not remember exactly what it is, but it is a further relief that they will have. If you add the two things together, it is a very, very significant relief that will make the framework conditions for amusement parks really improve.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027155121	We'll thank the tax minister. No one else has asked for short remarks, and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027155138	The debate is open. Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027155151	Thank you for the floor, President. In social democracy, we are very concerned about combating tax evasion and tax havens. Everyone has to pay their taxes to the community, no more and no less. That is why we are also in favour of new measures to strengthen the fight against tax evasion and illegal trade in candy, wine, beer and other excise goods. It's not okay for companies to cheat on the weight. It is damaging both the law-abiding companies and our welfare societies. SKAT's effort project back in 2014 showed that, unfortunately, there was a need for more focus and control in this area, and I think that many of us remember the stories about those ugly conditions where old sweets were sold as new, and how many mix-candy shops had not paid the tax they had to pay. Therefore SKAT also followed up in 2015 by continuing to prioritise an effort here, and SKAT was asked to document the control results in a way that we here in the Folketing could better assess how we get rid of this and what actually works preventively. The bill says that the illegal trade, despite control, has increased. Here the fines can be one tool, and we are very positive about that, but we also know that control, and hence the risk of detection, is absolutely crucial. We would therefore like to look at that part of the committee's work, in other words what experience we have gained from the strengthened control. And with the billion-dollar investment plan for SKAT that we are now discussing, is this an area in which we can expect more control if it is up to the government? Otherwise, we are just as far in relation to adopting stricter fines. The draft law is also about the implementation of amending directives on automatic exchange of tax rulings and country-by-country reporting, in other words, the fight against international tax evasion. These measures mean that we, together in the European Union, are taking a step towards ensuring that taxes are paid where economic activity is created, through transparency and the sharing of tax information. This is an important and a good step, and we in the Socialist Group wholeheartedly support it, but it is far from enough. There is still tax evasion for billions and billions of dollars, which is why we have long been asking the government, rather than the slightly foot-timing approach, to sneak the running shoes and to press more actively in the European Union for us to take new steps in the fight against tax havens. We ourselves have put forward a large number of proposals which we would much rather discuss with the government, but since we agreed in May, with the urgent question of tax havens, that the government should convene discussions for negotiations, we have heard nothing. That is why I would like to take this opportunity today to call on the Minister to get these negotiations under way. Compared with the other adaptations to the bill to EU law, firstly, that pensioners who are not resident in this country will in future be able to freeze property tax in a property in Denmark, like other pensioners, and secondly, that the receipt of tax-free extras and full tax liability on the posting of the Danish State etc. Become independent of citizenship. We'll back it up. Here too, I should like to welcome the Radicals who are debating and say that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027155516	There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027155519	Thank you, sir. President. I would really like to take a little notice of what the rapporteur has said. I therefore agree with all the considerations that were put forward that we should not accept tax fraud and tax evasion, nor should we accept tax evasion and tax fraud and speculation in taxes. But surely we should not accept that the fines are not being paid, because that is actually what is going on around that day. What's the point of getting these fines that this bill will double if you don't pay the fines? What's the point if the kiosk owner runs off, sells the store to a cousin or closes and puts a new owner on the cvr number, or whatever it may be? What should we do then? The information I have received from some time back is that one in three of the fines given because of kiosk fraud is never paid at all, ever. Is it satisfactory, then, in the view of the Socialists, that we are simply raising the fine now, but doing nothing about it, in relation to ensuring that those who then get a fine pay it too? It's basically the most important of all.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027155630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027155631	I am glad that the rapporteur shares the comments I made in my rapporteur's speech, and I really think that, following on from what was said, I also tried to say that fines cannot stand alone and that fines are, of course, important in terms of preventive action, but that we must also make sure that we take the steps that make us both controlled and come out and follow up the breach of these rules, but also that the fines are paid. That is why we are suggesting that in committee we dive a little more into the work done by SKAT in this area, and that we draw some of the experience rather than see whether it can be alone, that we increase the fines, or whether we need more steps.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027155718	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027155720	I fully understand that it is part of the medicine, that is, that we have to raise the fines. But we also give a bait, and the Social Democrats have helped to give it through the 2012 tax agreement, for example. means that next year we will have to increase our sugar levies by what is equivalent to 80 million. kr. This means that those who now like to sell, for example. chocolate products subject to excise duty but which do not want to pay the tax and then sell it without, that is, what we then call kiosk fraud, then end up speculating about using that tax just getting bigger.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027155758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027155759	Now I think it might be just as far to go that the rapporteur starts by agreeing, but afterwards it seems to me that it should be the Social Democrats' fault that somebody is fucking with the taxes. I certainly do not agree with that. That is also why, when we were in government, we did something extra to strengthen control in this area, and that is also why we say in committee: we want to look down on the work being done, look at whether there can be other measures we can do to prevent people cheating and scamming about this in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027155831	We thank Mrs Lea Wermelin and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Wermelin. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027155841	This bill aims to support the fight against tax evasion, an agenda that we in the Danish People's Party are also very concerned about. The first element that I would like to mention, and which I will probably spend the most time on, is what has also been discussed by the previous rapporteurs, namely the question of kiosk fraud, where this draft law lays down that there will be a higher penalty for kiosk fraud. We are extremely pleased in the Danish People's Party that it is now being legislated on because it is precisely something on which we ourselves tabled resolutions just before the last parliamentary elections. The reason for the proposal is, of course, that we see a very massive illegal trade in Denmark, which means that there is a high level of unequal competition, because some companies pay their taxes and VAT etc., but they are being outcarried out by these kiosks, who blossom all over the place, who can sell the goods much cheaper because they get them duty-free in, among other things. Sweden and Germany. It has been estimated that the amount in 2005 was as high as 550 million. kr., so it's getting pretty massive. That's why it's great to have the fines lifted on these different groups: beer, soda, candy, etc. Just to mention how we double the fine, it is the case that today, in the case of first-time cases, a fine of DKK 5 000 can be imposed. It is directed forward to a fine of 10,000 kroner, and if you are right up to the fourth time and you violate all five groups, you can actually get a fine of as much as 200,000 kroner. So it can be said that at least now we are starting to get to grips with it, and that is quite a positive thing. However, what my colleague said to the last rapporteur is also true, namely that it cannot be left alone. One of the things that is missing from the resolution we tabled before the elections is, of course, one of them. a rapid follow-up check and ensuring that people are paid the fines and so on. A possible way of gaining greater control, which I can also hear that the Social Democratic Party is interested in, is, of course, among other things. to look at how to do in the area of food, where you have a system, if someone has committed something illegal and has not paid their taxes. This is, of course, something else in the area of food, but one could of course do it by saying that they themselves were going to pay for the follow-up controls. It could, for example, be done. Be by saying it's 360 kroner. per Initiated neighborhood. That way, we get some money into the tax system that can be used for this control. So it is both a financing element, but also something that can ensure that you have a follow-up check. At any rate, this could be one of the positive measures that we intend to take to the negotiations that are coming to get investment in SKAT. Then there are a number of other things in the bill. There are, among other things: exchange of tax decisions, and it is of course extremely important that there is cooperation with the other countries in this area. We think it makes extremely good sense for decisions to be handed over between countries so that they can better combat international tax fraud. This is a measure which is absolutely necessary, also in view of the great scandals we have seen over the past six months, Panama Papers and other things. In this way, it is only reasonable to work together across borders to exchange information. However, I must also say that we are very much looking forward to the negotiations that have been announced and that we are waiting for right now on measures that we can take in relation to combating it and tax havens. I'm sure there'll be more when the time comes. Then there is a single element in it which states that the requirement for Danish citizenship will be abolished for the receipt of tax-free allowances. I have to say that, as DFs, you get a little worried when it has something to do with Danish citizenship, but I actually see this as something quite quiet. In short, it is a question of if, for example, a foreigner who has lived in Denmark for many years is posted to the Danish state, he must have the same tax-free allowances as one who is a Danish citizen. That is what is being proposed in a quiet way, and we can support that. We have also noted that, overall, the consultation responses are positive. There are, of course, some who want something more in connection with kiosk fraud, which we would also like to see in the Danish People's Party. Then there are some who would like to see legislation with retroactive effect, which is usually not so easy. But in conclusion, of course, we support the proposal, and I would particularly like to thank the Liberal Alliance, the Conservatives and the government, because they can see the wisdom of raising these cocaine fines now. So thank you, too, to those parties for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027160310	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027160320	Thank you for the floor. The main focus of this bill is to strengthen the fight against illegal trade in candy. The illegal trade in sweets has grown despite a strengthened control effort by the SKAT. It can be illegally imported candy, of which no VAT has been charged to the Danish state, and you can find this illegal candy as cheap road self-candy in several kiosks around the country. We have seen, as the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned, examples of this candy being stored in unspeakable conditions. In order to counter this illegal trade, the government has entered into an agreement with the Liberal Alliance, the Danish People's Party and the Conservatives that the cola fines should be doubled. This bill contains a number of technical amendments to harmonise the provisions on fines laid down in the Coke Law and to double the fines. In addition, the draft law seeks to introduce changes and adjustments to a number of different laws in tax legislation. These changes shall support, inter alia, efforts to: tax evasion. It is proposed to implement two amending directives on automatic exchange of tax rulings and country-by-country reporting. As regards country-by-country reporting, we are implementing an EU standard from 2015 for country-by-country reporting. This is an adjustment in relation to the OECD standard that we carried out in the last parliamentary year. Overall, it must ensure a comprehensive and efficient administration of cooperation between Member States' tax administrations. In this way, there will be more transparency and Member States will have the information they need to protect their tax base. In addition, a number of other adjustments are proposed in the field of taxation, including: the abolition of the freezing regime and the abolition of the requirement for Danish nationality for the receipt of tax-free allowances and for full tax liability for posting to public institutions, so that the rules are more generally dependent on nationality. On behalf of the Left, I must say that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027160527	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027160533	I would really like to ask a few questions again about what I also mentioned in relation to the Social Democrat rapporteur, in other words about the fact that around one in three of the fines that are being paid for kiosk fraud, where sugar levies and so on are speculating, end up never being paid. In other words, you issue fines, and then you have a lot of administration to push for payment etc., and maybe it has to be in the courthouse and all sorts of other places, but the fines are just never paid. I would like to ask whether there will be any further consideration in the Left as well. For example, if you look at a truck that is stopped on the highway, where the driver has violated the driving-rest-time regulations and everything else, then you have the opportunity to confiscate the truck to the right with it, I would have almost said. And you can also confiscate the cargo, that is, the goods of third parties. Then you say to the trucker, "That fine must be paid before you are allowed to carry on with your cargo." That is how it works in some areas today. Would the Left be opposed to the fact that we are also giving it here in cases where people are not going to pay these fines, in other words that we will be able to immediately close a 24-hour kiosk which has repeatedly violated the authorities' demands for payment of sugar levies and so on.?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027160639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027160642	I would say that the whole issue of recovery is, of course, a relatively sensitive issue at the moment, as we have had major challenges in this area. So I think we would like to try at first to make recovery work as well as it can possibly do. After all, we have quite a few challenges in the area we have mentioned many times before, but I am certainly not opposed to looking at other options. But right now, I would like to say that recovery is not working very well at all, and it needs to get up and running.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027160707	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027160710	Well, there's nothing new about that. In other words, that recovery does not work, there are many other reasons. However, I asked as far back as 2012 and 2013 about the results of the then government in recovering the fines granted for kiosk fraud, and then it turned out that less than two thirds were paid for the last third was not paid. There's nothing new about that, that's how it's been for a long time. So what I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left is this: if you can see that there is speculation not to pay your fines, then we must also discuss what sanctions we could otherwise make. Could you, for example, do that? Imagine that the Left would agree that in the lease contracts we made a registration of the fine which had not been paid so that it would become more binding?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027160752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027160755	I still believe that it is quite important that recovery has just not worked. In other words, if you have a more effective recovery, you may also have to recover more of these fines, and if that does not work well enough then we will have to look at what else can be done. I do not wish to reject any other options. It is not at all that, but I think that the primary focus should be on making our recovery work well, because, as the rapporteur himself says, recovery is not a new challenge. We've been dealing with it for a year or so. It was a year ago that the tax minister shut down the automatic recovery because it did not work. So what it has been like under the previous government, I cannot stand by; it was not even my own party that was in government there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027160829	We thank Mrs Louise Schack Elholm and move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Schack Elholm. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027160839	In the Enhedslisten we see several positive elements in this bill. First of all, it is the case that the draft law contains the implementation of the country-by-country reporting country adopted in the European Union, and we are very much in favour of country-by-country reporting. We also think that in many ways the European Union's approach is too unambitious and, as this bill also shows, companies must have a turnover of 5.6 billion. kr. to be included. And that limits the number of companies to relatively few. As the draft law also shows, nothing has changed in the case of Denmark, it can be said, as we already have a demand for country-by-country reporting. However, although the EU approach is too weak, as we agree with a large number of NGOs, such as the United States, Japan and the United States. working with tax evasion, if so, then our principle is to vote in favour of the slightest improvement. And, after all, it is good that the European Union is launching land-by-country reporting. That is why we also support this part of the legislative proposal. However, we would like to take a closer look at the amount limit in the committee's work, and whether we can work with it how and to what extent there can be a majority to reduce it, so that the turnover should not be 5.6 billion. kr., before you are covered, but that it must be significantly lower, as it will then include more companies. Secondly, there is the proposal to double the cocaine fines, which we think is a fine proposal. The amount of the fines must have a preventive effect, and for us it is fine to double the penalty for fraud with excise duties on the so-called five high-tax commodity groups. That is fine, partly because the Treasury must have the payment of taxes passed by law, partly because we must also have equal competition, so that kiosks and the like who comply with the law are not out of line. So we can support that. Then there is the proposal to abolish the requirement for Danish citizenship for the receipt of tax-free allowances when issued by the Danish State. It is also sensible and we see no reason to maintain discrimination here. On the other hand, there is the proposal to freeze the payment of property taxes for pensioners living abroad. It's not something we're excited about. After all, the proposal will allow pensioners to freeze the payment of their accommodation in Denmark while living in another home abroad. We think it seems wrong, and it is a little shattered in our ears that people who can afford to have two homes, for example. have a nice house in southern Spain or at the French Riviera, at the same time must be able to freeze the property tax of their house in, for example. Behind swords. Freezing is, as a rule, a good thing that Enhedslisten can support, because it ensures a tax on the sale of the dwelling, so that the property tax is secured while homeowners are not taxed out of their own home. But in our optics it is the case that the possibility of freezing should actually be used for people with low incomes... it can be pensioners, early retirement pensioners, but also people with low incomes. And in our optics, if you can afford to have two houses, you can also afford to pay property taxes. So we are not enthusiastic about that part of the proposal. After all, under the draft law we have just discussed, namely L 25, the Minister of Taxation has said that if you want to divide up legislative proposals, you can get it, and there is a very favourable attitude from the Minister of Taxation. So we'd like to split up this bill, so that the freezing of housing taxes is cut off in particular, because we wouldn't be very comfortable with it if it were all lumped together, cola fines, the freezing of property taxes, country-by-country reporting, and then we got to vote against, for example. countries for country reporting or for the doubling of the cocaine fines, which we are in favour of and think are sensible measures. Now the tax minister is flexible in these contexts, but we generally have a problem here in Things with these laws, which are all good from the sea and where there are one, the other and the third, which actually have nothing to do with each other. And to the extent that we have a problem with it, and I hope we do not get that in this case, it may be because we were about to look at other ways of working with it, that is to say by the government might be able to put forward what to say, legislative proposals where the subjects are separate, but where one saw, for example. could do a co-operation here in the Parliamentary Chamber. At any rate, we have experienced, even under the previous government, getting into situations where there may be ministers who do not want to make that division and where one is then put in a rather strange situation and will vote against things that are not actually opposed. We consider this to be problematic in principle, but we actually think it is undemocratic. So we certainly hope that we can have a split of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027161346	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027161359	Thank you. With this bill, L 26, we're gonna sharpen the cocaine fines. Companies, including kiosks, must, of course, pay the tax and VAT required by the law and the taxes imposed by the law. Let me make it clear that we believe that the level of tax is far too high in Denmark and we would very much like to help lower it, but it naturally creates an unfair competitive situation when you cheat on taxes, and that is why we think it is important that fines for cheating are proportional to the gains that can be gained from cheating. This will be dealt with a little more now, and we support it. The draft law also implements EU legislation, which means that tax decisions in the countries are automatically exchanged in the opposite way today, when the countries have to request them. That is also sensible. Then the bill abolishes the residence requirement for the freezing of property taxes. We think that is quite reasonable. And that's why we can support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027161532	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027161546	The Conservative People's Party can support the proposal. It is a muddle of various things, but what is most important to us is that we take action, at least at the beginning, to try to curb the illegal trade in imported goods in the kiosks. We are in favour of the proposal to double the Coke Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool We think there should be a lot more action to be taken. We also think that the Minister has been constructive in the discussions in order to look at what initiatives could have been taken in a whole range of different initiatives. The crux of the matter is that the SKAT itself has calculated that there is at least over 0.5 billion. kr. illegal goods in the kiosks, i.e. simply illegally imported candy, chocolate, soda, etc. etc. And it is often organized forces that are behind it. So it is not just a trailer you fill up at Fleggaard just south of the border. They are organized criminals who sell goods to Danish distributors, to Danish kiosks. And that is why it is also important to take action against it with many different measures. It may be a task force with the participation of the police and the SKAT, which is given priority; it may be a question of ensuring that the police give priority to the effort much higher than they do today. After all, it is a dialogue that must also be held politically, also within the government. But we must also look at the level of fines themselves. But the basic problem here is that we have too high a tax burden in Denmark on the goods in question; in other words, excise duties mean that there is an incentive to import these goods illegally, that criminals have the opportunity to sell their goods, that kiosks have the opportunity to sell these goods illegally. And there will be another challenge on 1 January 2018, because there will be a further increase in the tax on chocolate and sugar products, which means that there will be an even greater incentive to import illegal goods and sell them in Danish kiosks. So the first and decisive step where we can do something to stem the criminal activity here, where society and the community are cheated, is to reduce taxes. We, the Conservatives, have specifically proposed the removal of 28 different excise duties. This makes it less attractive for criminals to import goods into Denmark and participate in an organised network, and it makes it more attractive for Danish kiosks and Danish businessmen to sell Danish goods which are customs-approved in Denmark and which are paid for customs duties and VAT and taxes in Denmark. But basically, we are positive about the government's proposals. We would like to see more severe penalties in this area; we would like to see the discussion on the nutrition note resumed and the nutrition letter removed from people; and we would also like to see it finally end in prison. 'Cause it's the community. Everyone is cheating on this. But the Conservative People's Party supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027161858	Mr President, there is one brief comment I should like to make. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027161904	Thank you, President. I fully agree with the rapporteur for the Conservatives that these escalating taxes are, of course, helping to make the incentive to go further into this kind of fraud, precisely because the sugar levy is increasing. It is, after all, part of the tax agreement that exists from 2012. I would just like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on whether this was something that the Conservatives were involved in or whether it was something that the Conservatives were opposed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027161926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027161929	Yes, the Conservative People's Party helped raise taxes and has also done so in the past, but has also helped to remove We have so specifically proposed that this year's Finance Act remove 28 specific excise duties and also look at the sugar tax. Because it's an incentive to make illegal trafficking, it's an incentive to cheat the community. So if we get rid of some of the crazy taxes that are, that means, in addition to saving society a lot of money, that we also get less crime, and then we also save a lot of bureaucracy for businessmen, who have to rubble all these taxes on different leaders and edges. There are different types of enjoyment charges that are different types of charges for different products which are completely hollow in the head. So we just have to get rid of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027162018	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027162021	Yes, it is absolutely true that it is a hole in the head and that it is absolutely crazy, as the rapporteur himself says. That is also why I simply cannot understand why the Conservatives have taken ownership of the 2012 tax agreement, which was just financed by this moving transition to a higher sugar tax, which rounds over DKK 29. per kg, when it is finished, when the rapporteur himself acknowledges that this helps to increase the incentive and the desire to commit crime in connection with kiosk fraud. Perhaps the rapporteur should have thought of that when he was included in the tax agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027162056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027162059	Well, politics is that way, and the otherwise skilled and experienced sir knows that. Hans Kristian Skibby also said a lot about politics being compromises. What we achieved together with the Left at the time was, of course, the reduction in corporation tax. It was for the benefit of the companies and the raising of the limit on when to pay top tax. If you look at what the Red Government carried out in terms of job measures, then the agreement we made there was the one that created the most jobs and employment and welfare in general over the last many years under the Red Government. That's why it was a good deal. But the sugar tax was a bad idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027162139	Thank you to the rapporteur. No more rapporteurs have asked to speak. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027162145	Thank you for that, President. I would like to thank you for receiving the bill. I welcome the broad support for stronger action against tax evasion and illegal trafficking in, among others. Candy, beer and wine. The government has found that it can be seen from the bill that the market for the illegal trade in candy has grown, and that is why we are proposing a model of doubling the fines. It is to send out a clear signal that illegal trade in sweets will not be tolerated. And it's like sir. Dennis Flydtkjær mentioned something that was a motion for a resolution in an earlier session, where the Danish People's Party was the banner leader for focusing on this issue. One of the tools that could be used was to double the fines, and we have now agreed to do so; we are now implementing this bill. It is gratifying, and we must take note of that. But also in the international sphere, we are working to avoid tax evasion, as global and cross-border problems need to be solved through international cooperation. The draft law thus implements two amending directives on automatic exchange of tax decisions and country-by-country reporting between Member States. They must contribute to the transparency of the tax administrations of the Member States in Denmark, it is the tax administration which strengthens international efforts to combat tax evasion and what is called aggressive, illegal tax planning. In addition, the draft law also proposes that the residence requirement for pensioners' ability to freeze property taxes should be abolished. We do so because it ensures that the rules are compatible with the EU acquis. Finally, it is proposed that rules on the receipt of tax-free allowances etc. and full tax liability in the case of posting for the Danish State etc. in the future, it is generally independent of nationality. That is also a sensible minor change. I have to say that the issue of freezing applies to pensioners who live abroad and have a summer house in Denmark but are not taxable; they will now have the opportunity to freeze. Theoretically one can also imagine that it is foreigners who own real estate in Denmark who can get into that situation, but we have a fifth reservation about it. So there will be Danes who live abroad but own real estate and have a desire to freeze. However, I would like to thank you for the good and constructive reception that has been given of the draft law. I am, of course, asking for written answers to questions, including at second and third reading, concerning the points raised by the parties of the Folketing and the rapporteurs here. I can just say to Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten, that it is of course possible to divide this proposal as well. And I agree that, in principle, it is problematic to put many different things into a legislative proposal. However, in the field of taxation, in the area of the Treasury, where there are relatively many legislative changes, the alternative would perhaps be 40-50 legislative proposals, perhaps more legislative proposals, a year instead of the 20-30 that are normal. So it is actually for the sake of ensuring effective treatment in the Folketing that we choose to do it that way. I would, of course, be happy to listen to good proposals on how to do things differently in legal terms or how to do things differently in dealing with legislative proposals in this Chamber. But I really think that how you want it is a matter for the Folketing to decide, and then we will, of course, conform to it. Then it is the case that you can choose • and the parties are completely free to ask for a bill to be divided. However, one can also choose to express one's clear position in the report on the legislative proposal that is put forward in committee, and where each party should be happy to do so, it should be said what their arguments for voting for or against a legislative proposal are. And if you do that in the report, but of course it is up to the conscience of the individual party to explain what you think is good and bad in a legislative proposal, even if you vote for or against overall, then I would say that you can stand up for it in your defence to your hinterland, to the public and to your political opponents, in other words to explain your position on a legislative proposal. You don't always have to ask for a division. Whether you choose one or the other must be up to the individual party, but of course we look positively at a request for a split of this bill, if you wish. But the second option is available and has been used historically, and therefore it can also be used in relation to this bill. But those were supposed to be my words.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027162703	That is going to be a little more words, because there are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027162712	In the Danish People's Party, we agree entirely with the Minister that you have to pay your taxes and taxes. This has been said from several quarters, and fortunately there is agreement on this here in the Danish Parliament, I think both on time and with the right amount. But you also have to pay your fines, and that is the last thing that seriously lags behind. One can see from the answers I have received from the previous government that only two out of three fines for kiosk fraud end up being paid. All the other fines we can catch fish in the River of Guden with; little money comes out of that, I should say. I was also trying to get answers from the then tax minister, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, and I could actually get that. After all, I know that the tax minister is a competitive person, and that is why I am also surprised that the current tax minister has not been able to give me answers to the same questions. I have asked the tax minister how I would like to know how it has gone in the post-2013 period to recover these kiosk scams, which we can see there are hundreds of which have not been paid and where those who have broken the law are simply indifferent. Why is it that the Minister has not been able to give an answer when Mr. Holger K. Nielsen as then tax minister could well?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027162820	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027162823	Now, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, if you will excuse me, but I do not recall the answer to that question exactly, but I think that what was answered was that we have major problems with our recovery, and that means that we have turned off the automatic recovery, EFI • A Common Recovery System • because it did not work. This has created a lot of challenges in the area of recovery. It was the right thing to do, because we did not have a legal basis before, and we should not do so; we cannot be familiar with citizens and businesses. But it also creates some challenges, among others. to establish which claims have been recovered and which claims have not been recovered. It is therefore my expectation that when we now have a new recovery system, Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby's question, but what is even more important: we can get effective recovery of claims from those who owe it also people who have been fined for fraud with punctual goods. So that's the answer to that question. Then I can just say that I've been involved in catching a fish in the River Guden, so that's not impossible.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027162932	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027162936	Yes, but I did not say that fish could not be caught in Gudenåen, but at least money could not be caught, the money that people choose not to pay their fines. But I would like to say that I do not now believe that the answer I have received contains anything where the EFI system is used as a justification. What I am told is that it is quite a big matter and that it will have to be dealt with and that it will take a long time for the staff of the minister to do so. But I am still puzzled because what is in the answer is that it is difficult to separate paid and unpaid fines. So now I come from the private sector, and I am familiar with the way in which we manage our own payments, and I think it should be possible to do so if there have been 850 checks within a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027163019	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027163022	Well, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby is welcome to ask again, and of course we will have to look at it. I think my answer reflected the fact that there are major challenges in the area of recovery as a result of the pulling of the plug on the EFI. What you spend resources on is cleaning it up and getting the recovery started again. So the resources we need to use manually to go through different things based on a naturally legitimate desire from among others. The Folketing cannot then be used to solve what is the real task. But if Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby asks again, we will of course look constructively at whether it is possible to do so anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027163059	Then it's Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027163104	Thank you. I would like to continue a little further on this issue of fines. We know, of course, that SKAT has had it as a field of action, and SKAT was also asked to document how they are doing it and to draw some experience in terms of taking action more preventively in the future. I would therefore like to ask the Minister in relation to the work on whether it has been established that the fines are the only tool, or whether the Minister also imagines that other measures should be taken, such as those to which he refers. the maintenance of a strengthened control. Can the Minister say whether, with the investment plan put forward in relation to the SKAT, there will also be muscles to put particular emphasis on the control of the cheating that we are talking about here?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027163148	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027163151	There is nothing separate in the investment plan. There you deal with challenges that, unfortunately, are bigger for the tax administration than this specific area, although it is of course important. It is generally the case that what determines whether people cheat, cheat and commit crime is what they can gain from it, the gain, the risk of detection, the control part, and then it is the punishment when you have been discovered. We are dealing here with a particular part of the punishment. There is no further control effort. Of course, it is possible to discuss whether there is a need, but there is no such thing in the draft law, nor would it require legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027163234	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027163237	No, but that's also why I'm asking a few questions about it. I do not believe that fines can stand alone. They may be important precisely in view of the fact that you are to be punished when you are discovered, but that is very much linked to the risk that also exists. But we will ask more about that during the committee procedure. The second part I would like to ask the Minister is the whole question of tax havens. I also said from the platform that we would very much like to go further in the fight against tax havens and the tax fraud that is also taking place across borders. When can we expect the Minister to convene the discussions that we agreed back in May that there should be in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20161027163316	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027163319	Yes, I would very, very much like to call them as soon as possible, but the truth is that both the author's party and the government are preoccupied with the 2025 plan and with financial law negotiations, where I, as tax minister, am very involved. Yeah, for a tax minister, it's only 24 hours a day. This applies to a member of parliament, an official of the Treasury and also to a Social Democrat. So if we had hours a day, we would have. I can, of course, guarantee that the promise I have made to the Folketing will remain, but when those negotiations will be, I cannot promise anything at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027163353	We'll thank the tax minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161027163406	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 28 October 2016, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
