ParlaMint-DK_20160128100034	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Finance (Claus Hjort Frederiksen): Bill no. L 104 (Proposal for a law on additional appropriations for the financial year 2015). Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing (Inger Støjberg): Bill no. L 109 (Proposal for a law on citizenship), Bill No. L 110 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on general housing, etc.) and the law on free-care homes. Bill No. L 111 (Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Active Social Policy, the Integration Act and various other laws. Minister for Health and the Elderly (Sophi Løhde): Bill no. L 112 (Proposal for a law amending the law on drugs. The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Ms Stine Brix (EL) has announced that she wishes to resign as Vice-President from 1 February 2016. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course. To join the Bureau as the third Vice-President in place of Stine Brix, the group appointed Mr Christian Juhl. The person concerned is then elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128100151	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128100223	The debate is open. Sir. Jep Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128100300	Thank you. What we are about to discuss here is the first legislative proposal to implement the regulation which makes it possible to coordinate the registration of customs duties in the European Union. This makes a great deal of sense, because it will undoubtedly in the long term provide both administrative and, I hope, financial relief for businesses. As such, we, as Social Democrats, are of course in favour of embarking on this process. But it is also a great process that is not so straightforward. It is thus administratively difficult to try to coordinate the way in which customs duties are registered, in particular that part of what is to be done electronically. This is also due to the fact that more and more registration is being carried out electronically. Therefore, it can be seen in the process that has taken place with meetings with the Treasury in the autumn that the very few consultation responses submitted also reflect some of the concerns that may be about how this is being implemented. And how does it put companies at that stage in being able to handle and understand the customs rules that exist? We therefore believe that there are some unresolved issues in the draft law and in the whole basis of the draft law which we want to clarify in the discussion of this draft law. It is primarily about the economy. When it was previously dealt with and estimated what this would cost, back in 2012 and 2013 as the basis for the Council decision taken at that time, one estimate was made, and in the autumn the Treasury, with an estimate in a note to the European Committee of 29 October, indicated that overall this could cost 1 to 1.5 billion. kr. It's a nice sum of money, and I have to say that when you sit and read it through, I see that we haven't gotten quite clever about what the consequences of this are. What is the scope of this? And is the Treasury able to provide and support the necessary IT solutions to help ensure that this can be implemented? As I understand it now, there is an in-depth analysis in the Treasury of how this is going to be unfolded. It is clear that the IT systems will not have to be ready on 1 May of this year when the first part of this comes into force. This will take place on an ongoing basis until 2020. But there is still a need, when we have to make such a decision, to get more clarity on how this is going to work. What's the process going to be like? And not least, what's the economy in this? The answer to that is that we expect to be provided during the examination of this bill, but otherwise, of course, we are in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128100605	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128100613	As mentioned by the previous rapporteur, this is about the implementation of the EU's new EU Customs Code, which replaces the over 20-year-old set of rules. After all, customs rules are quite comprehensive and relate to the import and export of goods in the EU, and I would say that we in the Danish People's Party think it is basically good that we have common customs rules. That is what the European Union started with, that is, trade cooperation, and that is actually fine. The purpose of this bill, or at all with the EU Customs Code, is to ensure that trade in goods is smooth. There must be effective customs controls and there must be lower costs for both the state and the companies. That is a good purpose, but I think it is worth questioning whether that is what you think it will end up with. One can fear that it does not, and we have a fear in the Danish People's Party, in relation to how to get this implemented • something that the previous rapporteur also mentioned. In order to take one of these things, there is a great danger, as the hearings also show, that there will be a new IT scandal. So this is a huge project to get going and, as has already been mentioned, last autumn in the Treasury, it was estimated that it could cost between 1 billion. and 1.5 billion. kr., which must be said to be a huge amount. It is difficult to implement such large systems, and so there is a great risk that things can go wrong. What is even worse is that it seems that it is not just one common system that is being created in the European Union, but it is all 28 countries that have to make their own system at least one billion. kr. each, and then it becomes quite a large amount. It is then only the price of the SKAT. There has been no indication of what the amount is expected to be for companies, which are also about to make some system approaches, and I do not really think that this is clear from the draft law either. Then there's the whole risk. What if it goes wrong, that it gets delayed, as you often see with big IT systems? Will our companies then be in a position where they cannot import or export? It can therefore have quite serious consequences. We have some things that we would like to see clarified in the work of the committee, something that the Socialists also mentioned. Normally, a legislative proposal shows what the economic consequences are for the public, that is to say, for municipalities, regions and states, what the administrative burdens are, and similarly, what the economic consequences and administrative burdens are for the business community, but so none of the things that can be disclosed in this proposal, and we find that deeply problematic. After all, we think that the Folketing can rightly demand to know what you are going to do before you can vote in favour of a legislative proposal. Then I would say that part of the problem with this proposal is that it is a further harmonisation of the rules. In the past, there has been room for there to be some national deviations and additions in relation to how customs rules were dealt with, but that is no longer possible. This is therefore a matter of total harmonization. Finally, I can say that right now we cannot finally decide whether to support the proposal or say no to it, because there are some things we need to clarify in committee work, and that is in relation to how to implement it, what it gets from costs for business and the state, and what the risk of this IT system is for you to then suddenly fail to make it work in time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128100941	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128100951	Thank you. Today's proposal, as the previous rapporteurs have said, concerns the transposition of the EU's new regulation on the Customs Code into Danish law. Why, then, should we in the European Union have determined what the customs rules are? That is, of course, the whole basic idea of the single market, that is to say that we need to work together in the larger market we have to work on. We are a very small economy and a size of the domestic market is actually quite important for our competitive advantage internationally. That is why the European Union decides such a thing here as customs rules. This is a series of new measures which, as it were, should give the EU's customs management an extra gear. Increased trade with third countries has tightened the requirements for flexible and uniform handling of customs duties across Member States. Uniform rules and practices are a prerequisite for a level playing field for undertakings. Equal conditions ensure free competition for the benefit of businesses and consumers. This proposal is a very good example of how the EU benefits businesses and businesses. The EU Regulation contains a number of technical amendments which, overall, make the rules on customs clearance, securities and interest on late payments more streamlined within the Union. And with this proposal, we ensure consistency between Danish legislation and the EU regulation. Of course, we are also very aware that we should not over-implement the legislation, and we must also ensure that things go as smoothly as possible. This is one of the things we have had a great deal of focus on, and it is also one of the reasons why the bill has been through the government's EU Implementation Committee, in other words to ensure that we do not have an overimplementation. So we're at least focused on making this work as smooth as possible and not getting an overimplementation. But it is a very good proposal because it ensures an advantage for our companies. On behalf of the Left, I can say that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128101152	Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128101201	As several of the other rapporteurs have pointed out, this draft law contains a large number of amendments designed to provide more flexible and simpler customs clearance, many of which are technical and administrative. This is true, for example. the abolition of the authorisation of the Minister of Taxation to set a time limit for the declaration, removal of the word free from the wording and amendment of the rules governing customs warehouses, etc. And on the part of the Enhedslisten, it is our view that this is actually a whole series of proposals that seem good and sensible. However, as others have said, it is also vital for us that the revenue consequences should be described much more precisely in the legislative proposal than is currently the case. After all, the draft law contains elements which may potentially have revenue implications for the Treasury. This is true, for example. in point 3.14 of the comments to the draft law on the remuneration of customs duties. This shows that: the interest rate under the EU Customs Code is lower than the current interest rate on the tax account. However, it is not clear what the proposal to lower the interest rate costs the Treasury. Nor is it satisfactory for Enhedslisten that the economic consequences for the public sector are as imprecisely described in the bill as they actually are. It also states that: "The financial consequences for the public sector resulting from the introduction of the Community Customs Code have not yet been established. It must therefore be possible to get closer to this before we, as Parliament, can adopt a legislative proposal. It is also clear from the draft law that the administrative consequences for the public sector, not least for SKAT, as a result of the introduction of the EU Customs Code, have not yet been established. Before me, several rapporteurs have also raised this issue, and that is a problem, not least because it is not necessarily small change that we are talking about here, but large amounts, which may be between 1 and 1.5 billion. kr. When you deal with a bill in which the economic consequences are not known, it seems, excuse me, rather silly that you ask the Folketing to approve it without having clarified the financial basis, when it is not a handkerchief, but so much money we are talking about. This is also linked to the discussion that SKAT is in a situation where what we have also had up here many times has been saved to pieces and reduced to the sock holders and, as was actually demonstrated by the technical review of the Finance Act for 2016, actually has less money than they had in 2015. In this situation, SKAT must then carry out a lot of new tasks in connection with the introduction of the EU Customs Code, and we do not know the economic basis for it. In a situation where SKAT has a massive need for more resources, we cannot, as Parliament does, go on such an uninformed basis and impose a lot of new tasks on SKAT without knowing what it will cost. If we adopt the bill as it stands here, then we decide to add new tasks to the work of SKAT, that is to say, in relation to how SKAT will subsequently be able to solve the task, and also in relation to how SKAT will be compensated or given new resources to solve the many new tasks. That point and that concern are also reflected in the consultation answers that have come, how many express concern about whether SKAT will be able to solve the task, not least among others. in relation to the entry and adaptation of new IT systems. There is therefore a very great need to clarify what it will cost from administrative resources and what resources may be expected to be allocated to SKAT in this respect. On the part of the Enhedslisten, it is a hope that this is something that we can come much closer to during the committee procedure. It is important in particular when it comes to SKAT and the situation in SKAT that the necessary resources are provided to SKAT and that we here in Parliament assume the political responsibility to provide the right framework for SKAT's work. It is important to discuss the amount of resources to be allocated to SKAT when SKAT is entrusted with as many new tasks as are done in this bill. So here today I cannot say from the Enhedslisten that we can support the bill. Nor can I say that we are against it, but that we would really like to discuss further how to secure the necessary resources for SKAT, so that SKAT will be able to carry out this task.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128101650	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Merete Riisager, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128101659	Legislative proposal L 99 deals with EU customs rules. In the Liberal Alliance, we are very strong advocates of the European Union's internal market, and we are therefore also in favour of common rules on customs duties. That is where the EU started by facilitating internal trade, and it is one of the things that has helped to make the EU countries prosperous. At the same time, we are watching with horror the amount of bureaucracy that the European Union creates, both for the Member States and for companies. So we fully understand the concern that many companies have raised in relation to this bill and, in particular, in relation to the IT developments that are taking place. This concern hasn't gotten out of nowhere, unfortunately. We have seen some terrible examples in SKAT, among others. I would also like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations for use in the manufacture of medicinal products for human use is an important step in the development of the EFI system, which came to cost the wrong side of a billion and which was scrapped again, and has also resulted in the lack of a two-digit billion sum in the recovery which is simply not working. At the same time, the development of a property assessment system is now under way, which is estimated to be close to 0.5 billion. kr. I guess it's pretty clear before the political debate gets started on what this system should look like, that such an estimate has been made. How much money has already been spent is not known. So there is, unfortunately, cause for concern when we consider that SKAT, in cooperation with the European Union, must have some rules that must be digitally managed. In the Liberal Alliance, we are working for much more transparency in the SKAT in general. We are working to get personal responsibility, so that when there are huge projects, there is someone wearing the hat that you can call and ask: How are things going? You got this? How's the process? We believe that, in general, there should be external development of IT. So it's not something the SKAT has to sit with alone. It is very doubtful that SKAT can at any time have the best prices and the best quality in terms of IT development. It is certainly the case for most organisations that they can have such things internally. And then we believe that care must be taken all the time to professionalise both IT and project management, because that is one of the things we know there have been huge problems with. So in the Liberal Alliance we say yes to L 99, but we keep a close eye on SKAT and the estimates that will be made on this, and the process that is going to take place, and then, of course, we also recommend to the government and the minister that they get the right people in the right positions. After all, it is the Minister who is ultimately responsible for whether something is going well or not, but it is not the Minister who has the day-to-day management to ensure that the money is spent properly and that things are going to work in a way that does not burden businesses unnecessarily. He's gonna make sure he finds the right people for that. To the way in which SKAT works, we must say that the fundamental value is that we must respect the citizens' money, both when using it to build new IT systems or to carry out new processes or implement new legislation from the European Union. We need to spend as little of the citizens' money as possible, and at the same time we must ensure that the systems we develop operate in a way that is most accessible and transparent to the citizens. So with this rather big task in mind to the Minister we say from the Liberal Alliance yes to L 99.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128102042	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128102049	In the alternative, we are very much in agreement in the direction of the draft law. We can only be very positive about having it implemented. With regard to the challenge picture that has been outlined by my colleagues from the other parties, we very much agree that there is a foundation in the SKAT right now which is both IT and resource-wise rather fragile at least from the outside. Therefore, our doubts about this bill may be whether you can handle it. It's about some financial resources, but not least about some employee resources and a big ownership problem with the employees we're thinking in the Alternativet... in SKAT at the moment. That is why we would like to have a debate on how to restore confidence in SKAT, so that when we have a legislative proposal that is really positive from the point of view of the alternative and wants everything right, we do not stand and talk about the ills of the past. Because I have no further contribution to make to my fellow Members who have just outlined the challenge picture, I will once again ride one of the stick horses of the alternative. We simply miss an IT ministry in the alternative. We simply miss the point made by the Committee on Taxation and the Minister for Taxation that there are some challenges here that are not really going to be solved by us. We don't have to hang on to them. There are skilled employees in SKAT and in ministries who have it in their blood and have plenty of experience of running processes like these here, but we just experience time and time again that skeletons are falling out of the closet from the past and that it is therefore difficult to accept large, new IT projects. Therefore, we would like to encourage you to stick to what you are best at and to protect our fantastic tax system here in Denmark, so that IT skeletons do not constantly appear that can defile the good tax system we have. Because it really has nothing to do with our tax system that we cannot implement, for example, this bill. It has to do with the resources that are given priority to SKAT, and the IT foundation on which it is based, which is very, very old-fashioned. But I would like to say that the interface you experience as a citizen when you go in and need SKAT for something is of international excellence. Therefore, it is a pity if we have an experience when you are in Denmark that our tax system is sailing. Sometimes I'm just commenting on Twitter, for example. When we sit at a committee meeting: Wow, this looks awful. But it doesn't actually. We have a wonderfully well-functioning tax system and our digitalisation process in SKAT is also far ahead of many other countries, but we simply lack a direction and some others take responsibility for our IT purchases and set ambitions that are much more agile than what we see today. That is why we are so supportive of the direction of the legislative proposal and we intend to vote in favour of it, but we still lack the confidence that SKAT has the resources to implement it here in a way that will not affect businesses and the flexibility that is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128102400	I would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128102411	It was a high rapporteur who was standing here before the meeting. Thank you very much. On the radical side, too, we are taking a positive view of this bill, and there are two reasons for this. Firstly, it is also an area in which we believe that it really makes sense for EU cooperation to set common standards, and it is almost very touching to hear that all the EU critical parties in the Folketing actually do, in this area, seem to support joint European cooperation. One might wish that there were a little more areas in the day-to-day. I think it would ease the gap on the ground both for the government and the Folketing very much. But let's just leave it alone. There is no doubt that this makes sense in the customs area. That's where you can say it all started, as several people said. However, there is another reason why we are positive about this, and that is that if we are to succeed in getting IT systems in SKAT that work, there is one thing that no data devil or ministry can take responsibility for, but which is a political responsibility, and it is that we have rules that are simpler and simpler to administer, and part of that is that we have the same rules across the European Union, so that we do not have to operate as a company or as a state and deal with many different rules. The simpler the tax rules we have, the more uniform the tax rules we have, the easier it is also to create well-functioning IT systems to suit it. It is not always the case that the European Union makes simple rules; I must be the first to admit that, but there is at least the advantage of this in this case that all countries will then have the same rules, and that in itself is a great simplification. Having said that, we naturally have the same concerns as several other rapporteurs have raised. To put it mildly, it is not quite crystal clear what this is going to cost, either to implement or in relation to revenue, and of course we will have to get something more out of it during the committee procedure, simply because, when we adopt something here on matters, we must of course know what financial consequences it has. We always have that under control and, of course, we also have to have it here, which is why we look forward to having it clarified in committee, and we would like to join the chorus of rapporteurs who are ready to support both the tax minister and the Treasury in ensuring that the resources are made available. We should not have any new IT problems, nor should we get into a situation where we do not have the manpower needed to make this work properly. I hope that in itself it will also be able to help with the proceeds. So with these comments we look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128102650	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128102707	There are many good things in this bill that have to implement a common EU Customs Code. What I think is remarkable in many of the consultation answers we have received is the great concern about what this will mean for companies, for freight forwarders in relation to IT systems. I think the Minister is well aware of that too. This is a common theme in the consultation responses. As a former colleague has also mentioned, we in the SF believe that an extra effort should be made simply to give an estimate of what the economic consequences of this will be. It is customary for us to have a fair overview of what the economic consequences of the things we do in here will mean both for companies and also for public funds. I think it's very good that SKAT has set up an IT follow-up group and is holding these IT dialogue meetings, but that said, the concern is so widespread both in terms of downtime and concerns about whether IT systems are going to be running in time at all. From the SF's point of view, we have already said that we do not think that the effort that has been made to secure additional resources and personnel for the SKAT has been enough. It has been good that there has been a focus on it, but it is not enough. We have also said in the past that we simply want an IT Havari Commission to look at some of the major projects that have failed. It is because we can only learn how to do better if we also find out what has gone wrong. It has cost the Treasury a great deal of money, and it has also cost companies and citizens a lot of trouble and money when some of these things have failed. Not least is it digging into the mistrust that has been to the SKAT. We have a political responsibility for this in here, and it therefore requires far more resources than have been provided. I am not pointing my finger at anyone; it is something that has happened over many years and under changing governments. We have simply cut too far to the bone, and we must take political responsibility for that. That is what I am focusing on here, because the EU regulation itself gives the EU exclusive competence, so I will not say much about it. I actually think it is very good that there should be common rules, but that is the way to where it should be implemented and some of the concerns that go back in all the consultation answers, which I hope the Minister will put extra emphasis on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128103007	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128103015	The modernisation of the EU Customs Code is very good for Denmark. It is good for society and it is good for companies. So we on the conservative side are positive about the proposal. Anything that can help to ensure more transparency, better opportunities for the exchange of goods, better opportunities for both imports and exports, benefits an open society like the Danish one. This will also help to improve the possibilities of being a company in Denmark and will make life a little easier. That is why we can support the proposal. Then several of the rapporteurs have rightly mentioned all the IT challenges. The state has a really bad track record in the area, SKAT has a particularly bad track record, which is why I assume and am quite sure that the minister is very aware of the challenges facing IT. Of course, so is the department, and I expect you to use a lot of effort to ensure that. Because if this doesn't work, if it just collapses for a short period of time, then it's gonna shut it all down. Then it will cost in relation to the companies and also to cost in relation to our welfare in the long term. However, we can support the proposal from the conservative side.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128103134	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128103142	I would like to thank you for receiving the bill. It is true, as a number of rapporteurs have said, that the draft law may make a number of minor changes and adjustments to national legislation due to new EU customs rules, what is also called the EU Customs Code. It is directly applicable in Danish law because it is a regulation. We live in what most people regard as a modern age, but whether you do it or not, at least we live in a time when goods flow faster and more and more across national borders. We must and must offer companies as well as citizens and, in this case, companies a digital customs process where they meet the same requirements as companies, whether they choose to declare their goods in Portugal, in Hamburg or in Aarhus Harbour. This is the basic idea behind the EU Customs Code, which is why the EU Customs Code is basically a very good idea. Instead of having different rules, we get the same rules and guidelines for customs clearance. The EU Customs Code therefore provides for the modernisation of EU customs rules. Modernisation is essential if we are to be able to import as well as export, if we are to be able to run smoothly and if companies are to be able to operate with a uniform set of rules. And a uniform set of rules also creates equal competition, which is a good thing. There are a number of rules that have previously been laid down in the national legislation of individual EU countries, which are now laid down directly in the EU Customs Code. That is why it is necessary to amend the Customs Code so that companies know what rules apply per person. 1 May 2016. I also believe that some of the parties to the consultation have mentioned that customs legislation could be completely deleted, and it is possible to do so because this is a regulation and it has direct legal effect. But then the boring situation would arise that what is in force, what is in the law and what is described in the Customs Code and the regulation, would be in conflict with what is in the Danish customs rules and the legislation that applies there. I think, as a minister at least, it would be a problem if you had this disagreement. We want to create confusion about what is actually applicable. Applicable law is what the regulation says, because it has direct legal effect, and therefore it is only natural that we should adapt our customs legislation to that. I understand the concern expressed by a number of rapporteurs up here, but I must also say that it is a little misunderstood to say that what is involved in the legislative proposal is the development of an IT system. It is true that we need to develop an IT system in order to be able to live up to what the EU Customs Code says in the coming years, but the IT system as such has nothing to do with the legislative proposal. The bill ensures that there is consistency between the EU regulation and the Customs Code and Danish law, so that there is no confusion as to what is actually applicable. Of some of the key changes to the draft law, I am going to have to do one of them. highlight amendments to the rules on the calculation of interest on late payments for customs debts. In future, interest on late payments will be calculated in the same way in the EU regardless of the country in which the customs debt was incurred. All in all, the draft law contains the necessary amendments resulting from the entry into force of part of the EU Customs Code on 1 May 2016. I know that, as a number of rapporteurs have said here today, many companies, as can be seen in the hearings, are concerned about the new rules. After all, the consultation answers are quite negative as well. The concern goes on, which is also one of the things that has been raised here today, especially on the IT development that is going to happen at both SKAT and companies until 2020 and 2021. As I said, this is a part which, in isolation, has nothing to do with the legislative proposal, and that is also why nothing has been said about the economic consequences of the legislative proposal. Because the bill as such and the paragraphs you are changing have no economic consequences, but overall, the Customs Code and the development of this new IT system will have some consequences, among other things. in relation to IT developments. That, then, is what we are concerned about in the consultation answers, and that is a concern that I take very seriously as tax minister. That is why we have also set in motion a number of things to ensure a good dialogue with the companies that will be affected by the changes to the EU Customs Code towards 2021. I stress that they will be involved in this work, and therefore during the spring I will also meet with a number of stakeholders to get their input on how we can do this as smoothly as possible, and how we can ensure that there is a good dialogue between stakeholders in the field, Danish business and SKAT, and ensure that the IT development that needs to be is as cheap and as functional and as efficient as possible for companies and users of this new system as well as for public authorities. Therefore, the Ministry of Taxation has also initiated an in-depth analysis of the customs territory of SKAT, including the procedures and IT measures necessary for implementing the EU Code. In short, therefore, this is a matter which is of high priority both to me as Minister of Taxation and to SKAT. I would, of course, like to thank you for the constructive debate that has taken place here today. I would particularly like to acknowledge what the Alternative's rapporteur is saying, namely that, in relation to IT development and how far the SKAT is advanced in that area, things have to be seen in a context. There are IT projects that have not gone as they should, and that is, of course, questionable. But if we compare the overall IT development and where SKAT is, with other countries in Europe and around the world and with the United States, then you are actually very, very advanced, light years ahead in some areas. But, of course, there are some things that need to be done better, and we must try to do this together. But I also think we should recognise that on the IT front we actually have some well-functioning IT systems. Some of them must then be replaced, so a solution must be found and new ones must be developed. The conclusion that should not be drawn as a result of the concern for the development of a new IT system within the EU for the Customs Code area, as well as other areas, is that you can go back to the sphere. You can't do that in SKAT. You cannot do that with other public authorities. Using IT support, IT systems and digitisation is a key part of public sector development. We must then make sure that this is done wisely, and we must also find and prioritise the means to carry out those tasks. But to come to the conclusion that then we should not develop anything, that then we should not embark on new IT projects would be wrong. It's the wrong way to go. But, of course, we must learn from the mistakes that are made, and I must say that we are doing so in SKAT. With the words and the point that what we are going to vote on here is not an IT system and therefore the consequences are not described in the draft law but a change of legislation that is absolutely necessary as a result of new rules that come into force per year. 1 May 2016, I will conclude. I will, of course, inform the Danish Parliament in the near future about the development of this new IT system in the customs area and also come up with a consolidation of what it is actually going to cost.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128103948	Thank you. There's a couple of questioners. First, it's sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128103953	Thank you. We share in full respect for SKAT and not least SKAT's employees. I am also absolutely convinced that the tax minister means it when he says he takes this seriously. But it is not unreasonable to hear IT and SKAT and 11⁄2 billion. kr., so to get the idea that it doesn't rhyme so well at the moment, and therefore we obviously have special attention to it. I would like to challenge what the Minister says and, as he also concluded, that this bill has nothing to do with the IT system. In isolation, this may be true, but then there is a great challenge in communication to the companies that are affected by this bill. Because of the answers from Danske Speditører, from Dansk Erhverv and from Dansk Industri it is clear that it is on one of the main points that the concerns are in relation to this bill. No wonder, then, that the rest of us share that concern as well. So the Minister and the Ministry have to deal with that. That's one. The second is that some of this has to come into force on 1 January 2017. I mean, are you on it? How big is the bill this year? Is the bill paid? Is there any money set aside? Now you start this process with the first bill, so what can companies expect to happen? I think it would be nice to get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128104108	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128104109	I think that is a good question. I think it is extremely appropriate to put them as part of the committee procedure, and then we will give them a written answer, and then it can be included in the examination of the legislative proposal. But I would also like to try to reply here. After these critical consultation responses have come in, a number of things have been started, and this is actually described in what has been forwarded to the Danish Parliament together with the consultation responses. A review has been carried out on a paper on a few pages on the involvement of companies in the process of EU Customs Code. And every month a special meeting of the Customs Contact Committee is held with a focus on changes resulting from the EU Customs Code. This IT follow-up group has been set up. A provision has also been included in the EU Customs Code itself that a revised version of the work programme setting out the framework for IT development should be drawn up annually. So that's some of the stuff. But I would also like to say that we are monitoring what other countries are doing so that we do not overimplement and that Denmark does not start developing an IT system that goes much further and is far more costly than what other countries are doing. So this must also be seen in the context of following developments in relation to what is happening in the rest of the EU countries, which are subject to exactly the same rules as Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128104227	Sir. Jeppe Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128104230	We will ask all the relevant questions in the committee's work. However, it is worrying, I think, that this bill is now being dealt with and that it has nothing to do with the IT system, but those who are affected by it have their greatest concern in this area. A process is being set in motion that we do not, in fact, know the full extent of. And the estimates of what this price is going to be have increased significantly and dramatically from the time back in 2012 and 2013 to the autumn, when the estimate is now that it is somewhere between 1.0 billion. kr. and 1.5 billion. kr., but you really don't know. This means that the bill may end up being much bigger. It is, in fact, quite a decision to make, and that is why this bill must also be seen in the context of the legislative proposal that is going to follow in relation to the full implementation of the Customs Code.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128104319	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128104321	I fully acknowledge that. In all silence, I would also remind you that in 2013, in other words, under the previous government, the Member States agreed to modernise the EU Customs Code. And you can have long discussions about what has been set in motion, and what have previous tax ministers done? My approach to the challenges of the SKAT is that you don't need a lot of effort to do that. We need to use our energies to find solutions and look ahead, and we will do so. But, of course, I recognize the problems that Mr. Jeppe Bruus travels, namely that one has to follow the development of the IT system and that the Folketing also needs to know what it actually costs. That information will also be provided.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128104358	Thank you. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128104402	Thank you. In the light of this debate, in which rapporteurs of virtually all parties, except the Minister's own, are concerned both with the IT system, but also with the financial burden on industry and the public sector, I would like to know whether it is perhaps not too early for this draft law to be presented, given that little clarity is now being given. So, when you set up a committee that first has to look at the rules, isn't it too early to come to the Folketing? Because I very much agree with the previous one asking that when you look at the history and can see that an IT system that would cost 165 million from the start. kr., now estimated to cost 1.5 billion. kr., yes, then some alarm bells must be called here in the Danish Parliament, as you can almost call it sloppy with the legislation. But isn't it a little sloppy that the Treasury should come up with a proposal to the Danish Parliament, where you can't say anything about the administrative consequences or the economic consequences, either for the public or for the business community? I think it is quite difficult for the Danish Parliament to deal with a proposal in which it cannot have the consequences on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128104505	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128104507	I don't think so, to be perfectly honest, actually. Because what we are voting on here is not an IT system. What we are voting on here is part of the EU Customs Code. This is the part that comes into force, whether or not the Folketing votes through this bill on 1 May 2016. So if the Danish People's Party votes against and a majority of parties vote against, we will have the boring situation, I think we will have some rules that apply and that are laid down in the EU Customs Code, and then we will have the law that people can go in and look at, that is, what we are dealing with here today, and here there will be a discrepancy, and that will create a confusion about what is applicable. So what we're voting on with this bill isn't an IT system. It is a relevant political discussion to raise, a relevant concern to raise, and I take note of that. But I just have to say that if you do not vote for this bill, we are in a situation where there will be a confusion about what rules apply and the rules that will apply are not those that will be in the law, and I think that is inappropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128104611	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128104614	I agree that this is not only about an IT system, but I also asked about the consequences of it and the administrative burdens on business, and they have not been highlighted in the legislative proposal either. It is true that, in isolation, it can be said that the draft law does not change that, but what about the EU Customs Code? It is written very specifically in the draft law that it has not looked at what it can have with consequences either for the public or for the private sector, and neither in relation to the administrative part nor the economic part. And I would just like to know whether the Minister will ensure that these figures are made available during the course of the committee's work. At least I find it difficult to go to the second and third readings if Parliament has not been informed. In my time as a parliamentarian I have not yet tried to have legislative proposals where those things have not been clear before the vote has been taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128104657	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128104659	In fact, it is usually the case that the Folketing adopts legislation which then has to be digitised without knowing exactly what it is going to cost. There are a number of examples of this. There have also been examples that it has become more expensive and examples have also been given that it has become cheaper. I don't think it's that unusual. But Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær is right, of course, that we should know what the consequences are of the legislation we adopt. The consequence of adopting this bill will be that there will be consistency between the rules applicable in the Customs Code and Danish legislation. If you do not adopt it, there will be a disagreement. In addition to that, this IT system and the rest of the EU Customs Code are being rolled out over the coming years, and in that process I would like to give an undertaking that I will inform Parliament of it to the extent possible. However, by 1 May 2016, I do not think it will be possible to say exactly what it will cost to implement the EU Customs Code to its full extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128104756	Thank you. Then it's mr. Naser Khader. Naser Khader No. Sorry). No, I couldn't quite understand it either. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128104812	Does the Minister not agree that a central part of the teaching of the situation currently facing SKAT is that it has not provided the right framework for the work of the SKAT, that it has cut too much in the SKAT and that it has not had the necessary resources for the work of the SKAT? And does the Minister agree with the wisdom of adopting a bill which potentially has very major administrative consequences and which will cost a great deal of money for SKAT to implement, without at the same time deciding which economy to follow? Isn't that a little strange? Then the Minister says that it is not usually done, and that it has not been done in other cases, but we are also in a special situation with SKAT, which is in crisis and which, moreover, has less money in 2016, than it was in 2015, SKAT, which has to carry out a lot of tasks, SKAT, which has many challenges, we have seen it with VAT fraud, we have seen it with the dividend tax, we have seen it in many other areas. In this situation, it is natural that, as part of the legislative power in the Folketing, we should make sure that we do not just adopt something without an idea of how the economy is connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128104930	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128104931	Well, sir has. Rune Lund is absolutely right. But I just have to say that you have to read the bill. The EU Customs Code must develop an IT system. That's not really what the bill is about. The bill is about some natural adjustments to what is going to apply, regardless of what the Folketing adopts or does not approve, per year. May 1, 2016, and it's natural to make these adjustments. Next to that, there is an IT project that needs to be developed, and there we have to ensure that the project is developed so that it works so that it becomes as cheap as possible so that it can talk with the other systems that are there. I would say that this is a challenge which, in this case, was not created by the Danish tax administration, but because the EU has decided to create an EU Customs Code which is a good idea, but that perhaps the European Parliament and the Commission have not had such a great focus on how to create this IT system. I believe that it should be a lesson both for us and for the decision-makers of the European Union that when you decide to make legislation that can be digitised, you also have to show how to make the necessary IT development so that you do not face the unfortunate situation we are in now. But that does not change the fact that this is not what the draft law in isolation is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128105050	Thank you. Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left, go ahead. But there is one more comment. It would be a good thing if you pressed in, then I'm more prepared. Here you go, sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128105059	I find it strange that we are discussing a legislative proposal here today where the administrative consequences and the revenue implications have not been clarified. Normally when we adopt legislation in the Folketing, it is rather detailed, also sometimes when it is only 5 million. kr. Here we are talking about amounts up to 1.5 billion. kr. or perhaps more, and I have to say that if we are to learn seriously from what has happened to the SKAT, and if we want to say, as in the future, that we are going to provide a proper framework for the SKAT, then in the committee work we will have to get some more precise figures as to what the minister thinks this is going to cost. I think that must be obvious.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128105140	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128105142	Well, to be honest, I think that the purpose and background of the bill should be read. It is, of course, a relevant discussion to raise. But you shouldn't make this a bill about an IT system, because that's not what the bill is about. In general practice, page 11 describes what the positive consequences, lower costs and negative consequences are. And in isolation you can see that they are not some of them, but if you look at the rest of the Customs Code, there are the challenges, and I think we should try to describe them. I have also sent it to the Danish Parliament and then we will have to find solutions together. These are, of course, some solutions which I will come back to what I did not respond to in the first place. I want to find them as the tax minister, and we assume that responsibility in the government. And then we'll probably go to Parliament's parties for a little help.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128105231	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128105238	Thank you very much. The Minister of Taxation is, of course, absolutely right in saying that, legally speaking, what we are going to adopt here is the implementation of a regulation that will in any case have legal effect in Denmark and that, as I said in my speech, we are positive about the content of it, and there will probably be a majority of at least the EU-friendly parties that will be there. However, one might still expect the Treasury to be able to give a little more precise indication of what kind of expenditure we have in store and what solutions are envisaged, including whether or not some of these solutions can be found in cooperation with other EU countries that have to implement the same regulation and whether or not we have thought about it. It is also true when the Minister of Taxation says that it is usually not something that we put our noses in so deeply, but it has to be said that there has just been a six-month period in which we have been able to see that in some areas, to put it mildly, it has not been very precise what the Ministry of Taxation has been able to do in this area. That is why I think it should be expected from the Treasury that we in this Chamber are more interested than usual in what you expect this to cost and whether you have thought through how it should be implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128105347	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128105348	I think that is entirely legitimate. As I understand it, the original plan of the Commission was that we should have a common IT system, but now it has become this, and that is perhaps the difference that is making this change, when it was presented to the European Committee a few years ago under the previous government, to cost a few hundred million dollars to perhaps cost 1-1 1⁄2 billion. kr. You have to take stock of that, and that is what I am doing as tax minister, and that is why a job has been set in motion to find out exactly what it costs to do this IT system and whether you can cooperate with other countries, and we will inform the Danish Parliament about that. I just cannot promise that one has a perfectly clear picture that before 1 May 2016, when parts of the EU Customs Code come into force and thus have direct legal effect. I think it would be best for the Customs Code to be consistent with what is applicable, namely the Customs Code and the obstacles that are per. 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128105456	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128105458	Nor is it expected, nor do we normally demand that everything be completely in place and that IT systems be ready to operate, etc. However, it might be interesting to have a report on this which shows a little about the process. One of the areas that will be of interest to us is something that one can shudder a little at the thought of: a common IT system for the whole of Europe. It could well be imagined that it would be quite a drag fire if so many countries with so many different tax systems were to agree. However, one might very well imagine that, for example, there is an increase in the number of young people in the Community. were some Nordic countries that could go together on this, and that you could find some partners... what do I know? This was one of the things that we would perhaps politically well like to make sure that attention was focused on, that is, that we did what we could to get the costs down from the start.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128105547	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128105548	Well, that's relevant points that I'm taking along and will pass on to those who sit with it. As for whether or not it is a towfire to create a large common IT system, it may be that it is an even bigger towfire to create well over 20 IT systems that are different, but must be able to talk to each other. I believe that both are a challenge, but it is a challenge that needs to be solved, because the EU Customs Code is basically a good idea, because it ensures one's rules on customs clearance, which increases competition, and it is fundamentally good for the EU, and it is fundamentally good for Denmark, and it is good for Danish companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128105625	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak now, and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128105640	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dam Kristensen, Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128105657	A statement is, first of all, a review of what has happened in 2015 and thus also covers the initiatives of two governments, and such a review is quite good. On the one hand, there is a sad reading in it, because it has to be said that there are many conflicts around the world and there are many difficulties and there are many dangerous situations. After all, international organisations and the framework that we must ensure in order to find a solution to the many conflicts are absolutely crucial. That is why Denmark's commitment, not least with regard to the UN, NATO and the EU, is important. These are the players through which we must be able to resolve the conflicts that exist, and that is through the organisations Denmark must first and foremost assert its influence. When you look at the statement, you have to say that we are making our contribution on the Danish side. So can you ask the question: Does it use it? At least there is a good example of this in the statement that it actually does. With regard to piracy off the Horn of Africa, which quite rightly filled a lot on the agenda years ago, we have now come into the situation that from 2011 there were over 200 attacks, there were no attacks in 2015. It is surely an example of how, when you go together internationally to find the right tools, somewhere you can get rid of such an unbeing, and in relation to many of the other sad things that are, it is surely uplifting that, when you want and have the will to do so, there are also things that can succeed. The second, which fills quite a lot in the statement, is Russia's increased aggressiveness, the behaviour that should give good reason for both thoughtfulness and action. A not small part of the statement is about Russia, and there is actually good reason for that. Crimea is probably the clearest example we have, but also the aggressiveness that we see in the Baltic Sea is another example. The third, which we have probably not fully assessed yet, is their entry into Syria without their coordination. I think it must give good reason for thoughtfulness. It also gives good reason for us, together with other countries, when a country, even such an important country, has such behaviour, to use the instruments we have, without going to the step of escalating the crisis too violently. One thing that doesn't take up so much in the statement, and there's also an explanation for that, because we have a separate account of the Arctic. I would like to say that I believe this will be an area which we must follow even closer in the years to come. Here, there are several entrance angles. There is everything about the continental shelf and so on, but I also think it is absolutely crucial that we in Denmark have an approach to the Arctic discussion, which is that we should not have a new area of conflict in the Arctic which, as the worst, can develop in some military direction. I think that is absolutely crucial. I would also like to say that we are waiting, and we are waiting somewhere excitedly for the Minister for Defence to analyse the tasks we are actually facing in the Arctic. I hope it is coming along, because it is absolutely crucial, even in relation to some more strategic steps that I think we need to take. But the Arctic must be the focus of attention, because I believe that this will be of great importance in the years to come. The second major part, which rightly fills so much in the statement, is about ISIL, and it also reflects very clearly that Denmark has contributed to many, many fronts to making military contributions as well. It is good that we have done so, and we must continue to do so. But here too, of course, the political solution is the one that is the goal for all of us. At least I can't assess what is going on in these days, starting tomorrow, with international negotiations in this area. Where is the real opposition in Syria, etc.? However, it seems that, as things stand now, a table has been created which one sits around, and that is absolutely crucial. Just as Denmark has made a constructive and strong contribution to the military part, it is absolutely essential that we be equally consistent in the political solution. It is absolutely essential that we succeed. It has nothing to do with being a cheerleader, but yet it is that you have found a table that you can sit around, at least the first condition for us to move forward. The statement also describes the terror that we have, unfortunately, been subjected to in Denmark, in Europe, yes, throughout the world, and also that terrorist organisations and individuals with extremist attitudes are some who make us vulnerable from an international perspective, too, here in Denmark. We also need to focus on this. The fight against terrorism and its abominable form, whether organized or individual, must and must have a high priority. It has had it and must have it in the future as well. I will just finish by saying that I think the statement shows that Denmark is present at all possible levels around the world. This applies from the a bit harsh with military hardware to the soft where we are advisory and guiding towards people who need it, and it is absolutely important and crucial that we do so. So the line that lies in the 2015 statement here, I think, is one that must continue in the coming years as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128110329	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128110334	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. On Russia, the rapporteur said that we should try to find ways without escalating the crisis too much. I believe that the objective is surely that we should not escalate any crisis at all if we can prevent it. There I would like to hear where the Socialists stand, because the statement says that the answer to that is to strengthen NATO. Does the Socialist rapporteur think that playing with the military muscles is what creates a proper situation, a dialogue, the dialogue we were doing so well, or does he think that other things need to be done? I still remember the frozen time when footnote policy flourished, and there the Socialists had the courage to say that dialogue is more important than armament. I would also like to ask whether the rapporteur believes that the Crimean crisis needs to be resolved by returning Crimea to Ukraine, or by having an internationally supervised referendum on where the Crimean people will belong at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128110445	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128110448	Yes, the rapporteur believes so. When you deal with a bandit to say it plainly like Putin to do, it doesn't help that you turn the other cheek to each and every time. The taking over of Crimea in the way they did is totally unacceptable and unreasonable, and this requires proper democratic societies to respond. It is not the case that we are going to do something similar to acts of war or such things, but as harsh a response as we possibly can, and we have done so, among other things. know that we have pressured them, including individuals, in relation to the economy. There should be no doubt that NATO is an absolutely crucial player in this regard. But where I was talking about escalating and I can see that even the bad handwriting, I have actually not been here, it was exactly in relation to what is going to be the big challenge in the years to come, namely the Arctic. I think it would be an accident if the Arctic too were to become a place of military escalation, and it was like military things that should also have a dominant role in the Arctic. It must be at the negotiating table, and that is where I used the word escalating.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128110556	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128110559	Now it was Russia we were talking about. There's a crisis. There is a crisis in various areas, but a crisis, as the Foreign Minister has also indicated, should be answered with increased dialogue. I believe that it costs all people a great deal if we continue to step up in NATO against a new cold war and play with our muscles, because the only answer we get is that Russia will start to play more with its muscles, and then we will be back in the old cold war. I don't see any sense in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128110635	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128110637	I'd like to say to Mr. Christian Juhl, that I am really into dialogue and consensus and everything. No problem at all. But I also believe that when you are dealing with someone like Putin, it cannot always be dealt with through dialogue and faith in consensus. I think that a number of the concrete actions taken under the leadership of Putin on the part of Russia show that we also need to show some strength at times.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128110703	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Espersen. I'm gonna need a little more quiet down in the corner. Thank you. Sir. Søren Espersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128110715	I thank the government for its statement. I think it is a good and comprehensive description of the situation right now, as it is. I intend to look forward and also explain what we in the Danish People's Party consider important, and also how the dilemmas are. In the political debate there has been a dogma that Denmark outside its borders has either a duty to do something or a responsibility for something. Of course we do. We have obligations to NATO, to the European Union and to respect the conventions we have signed, but besides that, we have no obligations. We therefore have no obligation to put pressure on Syria's leader, on Egypt's military dictatorship, on Saudi Arabia. Nor do we have a duty or a responsibility to ensure that the states in which we get involved in one way or another get back on track. We have no duty or responsibility to establish democracy outside Denmark, nor do we have a duty or responsibility for anything to the world's poor. Something else, then, is whether we accept responsibility or whether we make it a duty. We do that so often, yes. But in my view, it ends quite a few times with success. I am fully aware that Al-Qaeda and the Taliban were to be stopped after attacking the United States. However, the fact that this and others of this kind of obvious military intervention developed into a 15-year nightmare, which has not brought Afghanistan closer to democracy, let alone weakened the Taliban, which has not made Afghanistan less corrupt and which has cost the lives of thousands of Western soldiers and relief workers, was not necessary. I didn't mean to. The crucial mistake in such interventions is, as we see it, that we in Denmark and the West have convinced ourselves that the Afghans want democracy very much from the heart. They just don't know. But no, the majority of the Afghan people do not want democracy. They don't like it. They think democracy is weak and despicable. And the many Afghans who assure us that they want to and, as we diligently quote, are often the same who are not only financed by the United States, by the European Union or by the World Bank, but who will be able to send millions of people to private accounts in Swiss banks. So while we are eagerly fighting corruption in Afghanistan, it is ironic that in that country alone it is the Taliban, who really are not corrupt, who for the same reason enjoy great support in the common people. The same is true in other Muslim countries. Hamas in Palestine, Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt and Libya etc. Therefore, free elections in such countries will always end with Islamists winning precisely because the Islamists promise zero corruption and Sharia, and in those fields they always keep what they promise. Here we are faced with a huge dilemma. Do we support democracy, which leads to the introduction of Sharia and Islamism? Or is it to our advantage that countries are governed by undemocratic secular dictators who hold the Islamic rod and who are on a western course? So focused are we Western politicians on this sesame open-word democracy that one can hardly get over one's lips as much as suggesting that it might well be that full democracy in some countries is not desirable. You can't get Western politicians to say that. The necessary words do not come out, for the press and condemnation will be there immediately: well, so you are in favour of dictatorship? That's why everyone cheered when spring came in. Leading Western politicians quickly branded Mubarak, Ben Ali, Gaddafi and Al-Assad illegal. It was the very same Western politicians who, just a few months before, had hailed these secular dictators as essential partners. Mubarak, who for 30 years had kept peace with Israel, who had created economic growth even in the midst of the financial crisis, and who let women throw away the veil. Al-Assad is former Foreign Minister, and Per Stig Møller will call him the very key to peace in the Middle East. And even Gaddafi, we had somehow come to love. He went to bongo-bongo parties in Italy, and we stopped mentioning Lockerbie when he was present. Now, with one blow, they had become illegal, and in Egypt, the West gained power by imposing free elections. For democracy is per. definition well. But where are the Western leaders who dare to talk about what best serves the interests of the West? Where were and where are the Western leaders who publicly dare say, and now comes an English quote. I am sorry: we know he is a bastard, but he is our bastard. You were and are not there. The reason lies in the fact that democracy has become anism, the world has become the West's field of missionary democracy. But that also disappears pragmatism in foreign policy, real policy, common sense. Thus it is no longer possible to ask what really serves Denmark's interests. Of course we cannot ask that question, because we are out there in the service of a higher cause. And so we as missionaries go beyond good governance, dialogue centres, democracy projects and other concepts of mission, which even have the miraculous effect of opening the Danish treasury immediately, as if by magic. We are all excited about what Ambassador Taksøe finds out, but I hope that his work will form the basis for us to be able to review our entire security and foreign policy and restore pragmatism with the doctrine that Denmark alone has an obligation to Denmark and our Western allies. We must strike militarily when the interests and security of Denmark or NATO are at stake, as we naturally did when America was attacked in 2001, and as we have effectively decided in relation to the pirates in the Indian Ocean or at the Gold Coast who threatened our merchant ships. We would like to talk with good and kind diplomacy and cooperate with everyone, without restrictions or sanctions. Otherwise, however, we expect other states and other people to organise their own future, just as we expect to be allowed to present our future. If we are to go to war, I hope that pragmatism and common sense will also be able to gain ground in the same way. Soon we will be negotiating a new five-year defence settlement. The latter, as we know, ended up in a 10% reduction on top of the other cuts that had been made in previous conciliation, and this has brought the defence into serious problems. The reality is that today we have a very small standing army, which roughly consists of three battle battalions, and that our material, as a result of the repeated savings, is becoming increasingly worn down. That's the way things were going, we were told. Small units intended for deployment. We were informed of this in report after report. And as this was the case, it became incredibly old-fashioned for decades to pronounce the word territorial defence. The word in itself seemed dusty. No, so there was much more schwung over rap missions out in the hot countries. As there was supposedly no longer any threat to Denmark's security, we might as well abolish the submarine squadron, which during the Cold War was excellent. At the same time, the foolish decision poured out the enormous experience that submarine officers and commanders had worked out, and with which it will take at least 10 years to rebuild, the submarines would one day be re-introduced, with which the Danish People's Party will go to the forthcoming conciliation negotiations. Because today it no longer seems dusty to talk about territorial defence. Happily, the Danish People's Party managed to save the military service at the last conciliation and at the same time have a passage introduced that no time should be wasted at the next defence settlement on discussions about the abolition of military service. On the contrary, we will go to the negotiations with a recommendation that the number of conscripts be increased from the present approx. $5,000 a year. years, like twice as much, and like to add to even more. For military service has a great deal to do with territorial defence, just as military service is the institution which binds Denmark together from region to region and which helps to increase the cohesion of our country. With a broad foundation of military service, opportunities will increase to provide the appropriate professional soldiers that we need in the future. Anyone who has been conscripted will also remember the importance of meeting with other young people from all corners of the country and with volunteers also from Greenland and the Faroe Islands. Here we met across social and educational levels from all regions, not to mention the positive impact of military service today on integration, for example. Imagine if newcomers can be influenced in the direction of goodness, punctuality, solidarity and Danish culture. We therefore consider this duty to be an essential part of the people's regime, an important contribution to territorial defence and to the public's understanding of the conditions of defence and as a contribution to strengthening the will to defend themselves. We are therefore going to the new negotiations with the view that the crucial and central issue is the defence of the Kingdom of Denmark and that the forthcoming conciliation will not be a saving exercise, but that the cost of defence will be kept calm and that Danish participation in missions abroad will be arranged over separate appropriations in the Finance Act, as is the case in Great Britain, which I have explained and would like to explain if that discussion comes up. I thank the Minister for his statement and look forward to the further debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128111727	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128111733	Thank you. Not surprisingly, we should have some song that ultimately tells us that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party does not care what is happening in Syria and what is happening among the world's poorest. We have no duty to press Syria's dictator; we have no duty to help the world's poorest. What on earth is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party going to do to limit the number of refugees in the world who have an entirely legal and natural interest in coming to Europe in these years when the earth burns under them in the countries where this is happening? If we do not have an objective interest in stopping the war in Syria and putting an end to the worst poverty, what should we do if we are to prevent people from fleeing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128111824	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128111827	But I am saying that this is a task that we have then undertaken. The point I made was that we have no obligation to do so. But we have chosen to make it an obligation and to provide humanitarian aid, for example. The regions in the vicinity have nothing to do with what I was talking about. We have only the responsibility and the obligations that we assume ourselves. That's kind of my point.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128111849	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128111852	If we are to settle for that pace and approach, I understand that it will be a long time before we create another world where we can say that we should not be afraid of what is happening in the world. I was a little surprised that DF's rapporteur said that we had stopped mentioning Lockerbie when he, in other words Gaddafi, was present. Now I've never personally been with Gaddafi at the kind of parties that Mr. Søren Espersen apparently existed, but why did Mr. Soren Espersen didn't see about Lockerbie? Why did Mr. Søren Espersen saw for a number of the war adventures that Denmark has been up to?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128111932	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128111935	In other words, the crucial point is that I tried to portray the paradox that in a few months' time, including the Danish Government and the Western governments, there was a sudden change of opinion in relation to the secular dictators to whom a sensible relationship had been established. It went very, very fast. So it was to describe the very kind of surrealist process where, within a few months, Al-Assad went from being the very key to peace in the Middle East I remember, as I said, that former Foreign Minister Per Stig Møller was often in Damascus and thought it was great to be illegal. I mean, it was to portray what should we say?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128112028	Then it's mr. Naser Khader, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128112036	Just to understand it correctly, I would like to ask: do I have to understand the fact that Mr. Søren Espersen lacks Saddam Hussein and Gaddafi, who certainly created security and stability but who was brutal to the people? It's a myth that they created stability. What did Saddam Hussein do? He started a war against Iran that lasted ten years. Then he entered Kuwait and created strife, he sent missiles over Israel, he sent missiles with chemical weapons over the Kurds. Was it security and stability?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128112112	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128112115	I don't miss those dictatorships. Now it's the way it is. They're gone. I'm just seeing, and Mr. Naser Khader also well that it was as it was. The agenda at that time was that they were very good collaborators, i.e., I mentioned Mubarak in Egypt, by the way, also the king of Morocco and, in fact, Gaddafi recently, where he had become a little more gentle in his speech. This is, of course, the very situation that we find very, very strange, but I would certainly say that I do not miss the people I just do not know if those who have been replaced are much better. I believe that many in the Western world certainly do not mourn that the Egyptian military has once again made sure that the Islamists keep the rod. That, in fact, is what matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128112205	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128112208	It is true that the policy of the West in relation to these dictators has been characterised by hypocrisy and double standards since 11 September, when people walked away from insisting on good governance and democracy implementation and turned to security and stability, and then they did not care about the people who were tortured and imprisoned. One did not care if there were rule of law in the communities where we cooperated with the dictators, but it was of course the people who took action there in 2010 and who dominated the streets in order to demand the rule of law. Does the rapporteur not agree with me that we failed those with whom we were on the same wavelength, the democracy defenders who demanded the rule of law? And now it's all taken over by the long-bearded, unwashed darkmen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128112303	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128112310	I just think there were so few of the others. Sir. Naser Khader and I also remember how it all was and started. We also had discussions at the time. It began with the Arab Spring, where there was a great enthusiasm that there were secular forces that had risen, but they were quite quickly overrun. And it has to be said that it is an irrefutable fact that in many countries, Algiers and Egypt, it is good examples of this, if you have complete democracy, then it will end up in Islamism and Sharia, and that was actually the dilemma that I was trying to point out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128112342	Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128112349	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for a very straightforward presentation of the view on foreign policy. It was very interesting, especially the problem of hypocrisy and double standards which the rapporteur considers to be the responsibility of the West in dealing with the dictators who are so lacking. When we are now discussing democracy I understand that democracy is reserved only for those who can manage it, while the people who cannot manage it are better served by a dictator I must hear about two basic democratic rights such as freedom of expression and human rights: does the Danish People's Party consider the two to be universal, or are they only reserved for those people who can understand and administer living in a democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128112430	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128112434	Every country must organise its own future. I think the crucial thing is that we stop missioning and spend enormous energy on it. I mentioned the 15 years in Afghanistan which have been of no use. I think it is essential to say that we must be pragmatic and be able to talk and cooperate with all countries, regardless of their regime. As is happening at the moment, it's kind of a coincidence when we're gonna turn the piss on and when we're gonna let other people run the race as they please. I mean, because Saudi Arabia keeps changing: either we like them or we don't like them. There's a lot of hypocrisy in it. I think that people should plan their own destiny, and then we should stop running around and use energy to be missionaries.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128112519	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128112522	So when a Danish newspaper makes some drawings that they do not like in the Arab world, they are hypocrites if they condemn it very hard. It is not, in fact, a right for them to have freedom of expression. But if a British newspaper prints a drawing by a Danish prime minister, it is not hypocritical to ask them to withdraw the drawing. How are we to deal with the key concepts of freedom of expression and human rights? They are, of course, part of our discussion, both at home and in relation to our democratic discussion, but of course also in the world when it comes to the way we act and work together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128112559	Thank you. Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128112601	We believe that people can make the caricatures they want. The question, then, is whether some people are so violent that you might be able to ask: shouldn't you just pull this back? It is something other than saying: you must withdraw it, and if you do not, you will get the anger of the whole Arab world over their heads, and we will burn your embassies down. Why don't we try and get a look at what we're gonna say? There is a significant difference between the two.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128112631	Thank you. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128112638	I think it is interesting to hear some of the comments made by Mr Seligman. Søren Espersen here when he so focuses on Danish interests and that we should not be missionaries around the world. But, quite frankly, it is a clash with the activist foreign policy that Anders Fogh Rasmussen stood for, because it was missionary activity that the Americans practiced when they entered Iraq in 2003. And so was the Afghanistan War. That is why I would like to know whether this gives rise to some reflection on the position of the Danish People's Party on both the war in Iraq in 2003 and the war in Afghanistan, which was, after all, strongly in favour of. But that seems to have been regretted now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128112718	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128112720	It is the case that when you start a war and vote yes to it, no one knows where it ends. No one who sits around making two-year plans or three-year plans knows what they're talking about. If at that time we had been told that in relation to Iraq, I have also said on several occasions that it would end up being there for 10-12 years and that there was no guarantee whatsoever that things would improve, then we would have looked at it differently. It is not, however, in the sense that we want to be involved in military intervention. We just don't want to have a long follow-up after that, where you again expose yourself to a whole lot of threats and so on. and encounter violence and yet end up in a situation where it is, just like it was before. That's our dilemma in these cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128112814	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128112817	Well, that's not gonna last. Well, the Iraq War was from the beginning missionary. That was Rumsfeld and Bush's starting point. That was Anders Fogh's point of departure: Should we choose between democracy and dictatorship, we choose democracy. That was the whole argument for Anders Fogh, also for the change of regime in Iraq, and it was well known then that this was the reason for it, including in Afghanistan. But it has nothing to do with Danish interests. That's why I think, sir. Søren Espersen speaks out here, which is why I would like to know if it is an expression that in future the Danish People's Party will not be involved in the missionary military operations around the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128112856	Thank you. Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128112859	Well, I remember it as if we went to war with Saddam Hussein because we knew he had weapons of mass destruction and links with al-Qaeda. That was the beginning of it. Then it is quite true that as the months and years went by, when it was found that this was not the case, other things came in that suddenly had to explain everything. Then it was hypocritical enough to introduce democracy, and that is what we had always thought of, and so on. We both experienced this, and we also saw how the government at that time had changing explanations because it did not really keep water, what was said at the beginning. But our entrance was that people with weapons of mass destruction and with whom Saddam Hussein was associated with al-Qaeda should be combated. It was our entrance to that war.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128112943	Thank you. Sir. Henrik Dam Kristensen, Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128112947	I would, in fact, very much like to sign for a very fundamental, perhaps almost ideological, speech from Mr. Søren Espersen. It is so difficult to deal with with two short questions, but there may be other occasions. I have two things. One is that I respect the fact that one can have a lack of faith in, perhaps even a lack of desire, that there should be democracy in certain parts of the world. The second point is the very clear clarification of our sphere of interest. This applies to Denmark and to our Western allies... this is how I must understand the speech. That is why my question becomes quite natural: is not really the consequence of what I heard that the Danish People's Party must wish Denmark out of the UN?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128113029	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128113033	No, because I still have a desire for democracy. It is clear that this is our way of leading our societies in the Western world. There are different forms of democracy in our area. I just have to point out that not all people in the world think this is a great idea. I referred to Afghanistan, where I am convinced that completely free elections would give an overwhelming majority to the Islamists. Then, of course, we can go and wish it, and I certainly do, but I pointed out the dilemmas of where there are free democratic elections in certain countries, it inevitably ends in Sharia and Islamism. That's kind of my point. But I do want it. I think it would be great if everyone did what we did.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128113123	Sir. Henrik Dam Kristensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128113127	I understand that, but if I sum up the speech I heard, the priorities with regard to Denmark and Western allies, the lack of faith in democracy, etc., then one of the organisations that is actually trying to do the opposite is indeed the United Nations. We spend relatively much money on it. I must then also, as a side remark, understand that we will have to spend relatively much more money on the Danish military when we get to the negotiations. I look forward to hearing how many it really is, but it will have to wait until then. But am I quite wrong when, in the very fundamental and ideological speech, I also hear a negative angle in relation to what the United Nations stands for? That's how I hear the speech, but I'll get it off or confirmed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128113205	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128113208	No, because the UN is many, many things. I mean, there are really many positive elements in the UN. I have great respect for many of the sub-divisions of the United Nations and such things. It's just when it's that you make democracy an ideology and thereby get at odds with a whole lot of communities in this world that don't want it. Ironically, it is to a large extent the very undemocratic forces that currently govern the UN General Assembly. I'm not thinking about Mogens Lykketoft.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128113243	Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128113249	Yes, it is an exciting debate, and I can safely say that I do not quite share, to say the least, Mr President. Søren Espersen's idea of what is in Danish interest. I find it hard to see, particularly when we look at the current flows of refugees, that we should not have an interest in trying to put maximum pressure on the regional major powers, which are largely orchestrating and financing the war in Syria. But I would really like to go somewhere else in the speech that Mr. Søren Espersen held on to the issue of Danish territorial defence, and then I will put Mr. Søren Espersen to the vote. Mr Søren Espersen has a question, because I know how historically interested the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is: when was the last time, according to Mr Søren Espersen? Soren Espersen's historical analysis that Denmark was able to defend itself and its territory alone? Which year do we have to go back to before Denmark could?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128113339	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128113342	It was the three-year war of 1848-50, I think. I guess it went very well. But since then, it has been a very good idea to enter into alliances. We have done so far back in history. We have had exciting military alliances with Russia, with the Netherlands and with France etc. against England. We have always been good at entering into military alliances, and I certainly think we should continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128113410	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128113413	I had personally returned to the storm at Copenhagen in 1659 when we were able to defend the capital ourselves. But when I ask, it is of course because in the modern world we live in and in the NATO alliance that we are part of, it is quite obvious that even if we doubled the Danish military budget, Denmark could not defend Danish territory alone. There we would be 100% dependent on our allies. That is why it is equally important for me to discuss what we can do with our allies. Where is it that our efforts are most important, not just from a Danish perspective, but from an alliance perspective? For example: In relation to the Arctic, I think we can offer something that none of the others can, and it may be as important as getting a submarine back in the Baltic Sea or not. It says something about the world picture, as I think Mr. Søren Espersen's speech was an expression of the fact that we can sort ourselves out and deal with the problems ourselves. I no longer share the view of the world as the world has evolved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128113509	Thank you. Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128113512	No, but the problem is that what was called Smart Defence when it was introduced seemed to all countries was a really good idea, because then you could really save. I don't think that was the point of Smart Defence. Well, it is clear that when the United States paid half of NATO's expenditure during the Cold War and today pays 75%, they no longer bother. Well, that's the point. We can no longer rely on the Americans to come if, as at the moment, they are more interested in what is going on in the Pacific. But I say that if we are to live up to it, if we are to be a credible alliance partner, then we, as a wealthy country, must also live up to it economically. And there are some things that we are responsible for specifically: our Danish inland lake, which the Baltic Sea is somehow thanks to Bornholm, but it is also the Arctic area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128113600	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128113612	I also enjoyed the historic wingsus and also sign for a really exciting speech. I would like to know whether there are any of the existing actions that we in Denmark are engaged in, which the rapporteur believes is more about missions than about taking international responsibility. I think I heard elements, but are there any of the actions that we are currently engaged in, that is, interventions and contributions that we are providing internationally, as the rapporteur today seems perhaps more about missions than contributing constructively internationally?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128113638	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128113641	No, I can't answer that right now. We have some military efforts in progress: we are helping the French in Mali, and of course we also have something going on in Iraq and Syria. I consider this to be purely military interventions. No, I cannot immediately think of anything where we have a military effort combined with a civilian. That's what I think we've spent a lot of energy on. Every time you had destroyed a bridge, you had to quickly build it again and things like that, which we have also discussed in other discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128113719	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128113723	There are fundamental differences in the policy of the Alternative and the rapporteur's party in this area and in how we should contribute, yet I think that there is something similar in our desire to learn more about how we have entered different places. It may be that we have different wishes for what we are going to do in the future. I would like to ask whether, in the Danish People's Party, if one disregards the cost of what is minimal in my view, one could have an interest in learning the past precisely by reopening an Iraq Commission. I am aware that there may be amounts that can be said not to give what we want. But, to me, it must also be in the interests of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128113800	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128113803	What annoys me with the new demand, which I understand there is a majority in favour of in the Folketing, is that you then have to publish what you know now, so what the Commission had of documents but where, for example, you have to publish what you know now. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances does not include the planned interrogations and ends up with the fact that it does not have a conclusion that the Commission will send. I think that is quite wrong. It is like presenting half a truth, which is why I am opposed, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party have said no to the new idea that what is now has to be published. It is the same as in a trial to hear only one party and not the other and then publish it all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128113843	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Juel Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128113853	Thank you for that, President. I am giving the speech on behalf of the Left Foreign Secretary, Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen. 2015 showed us that it is an uncertain world we live in. The world's conflicts are moving closer, which is why we need to be able to defend Denmark's security and the security that characterizes Danish society as a whole. It is clear that Russia must increasingly be seen as a threat to security in Europe. The Russian leadership, with the annexation of the Crimean Peninsula and the continued military involvement in eastern Ukraine, has shown that it does not hesitate to use military force to advance its interests. Despite international diplomacy and a number of agreements signed by Russia, it continues to fail to fulfil its commitments to bring peace to eastern Ukraine. Without Russian support and involvement, there would have been no long-term conflict in that particular area. On the EU side, the answer has been very clear: Ukraine must be allowed to choose whether it wants to move towards more integration with the EU and NATO, or whether it wants to seek integration with Russia and the Russian-dominated customs union. It is a choice which must be made with normal political means and not with the use of force of arms. Russia's hybrid warfare makes new demands on NATO. That's why there's one of them. A new NATO strategy was drawn up to combat this kind of warfare. One is the means of action, among other things. closer cooperation with the European Union and closer cooperation between civil and military methods. In this respect, it is worth noting that there is not only massive propaganda activity on the Russian side towards Ukraine, but also towards the Russian minority in the Baltic countries. It is quite considerable pressure to put on these states, and that is why it is a matter of constant concern to us. The Baltic countries are stable democracies and are integrated into both the EU and NATO. On the other hand, there is cause for concern for the more fragile states mentioned above, Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova. That is why it is absolutely essential to support the democratic institutions of these countries and, in particular, the free media of the countries. In this context, it is worth mentioning that Denmark, using neighbourhood programmes, has been working for a number of years to strengthen these very areas. Denmark is helping to make a concrete difference here, and it is very important that we do not forget these countries, which are in many ways front-line states towards Russia and the particular social system that the Kremlin is trying to push down on its neighbouring countries. Denmark and the other NATO countries have also felt the increasing interest and aggressiveness of Russia in numerous violations of the Baltic airspace in particular. It is obvious that there has been an increase in Russian activities and that both in Denmark and NATO we must be on guard against Russia's behaviour. It is sad that the Russian leadership has chosen this aggressive behaviour towards its neighbouring countries in northern Europe. But there is nothing else to do about the challenges and then act in Denmark and within NATO. For many years Russia did not fill much in Denmark's security policy challenges. We had, as it were, taken for granted the peace dividend after the Cold War. We cannot do this anymore, and that is why it is crucial to focus more on precisely the challenges that Russian policy presents to Europe and the West. Unfortunately, 2015 became a year when it became all too clear again that Denmark and the West continue to be the target of terrorist attacks. The terrorists are helping to create insecurity and insecurity throughout the world. As you know, Denmark was hit in connection with the attack on the Krudtunden and the Synagogue, where two people were killed. It was a scary afternoon and night when a terrorist was loose in our otherwise peaceful and secure capital. It shows that dark forces can strike everywhere, and therefore we must protect ourselves. Both here in Denmark and by being actively present around the world to fight the terror at its hearth. The terrorist threat comes mainly from ISIL, a bloody example of which was the terrorist attack in Paris. ISIL has taken control of large parts of Iraq, including the country's second largest city, Mosul. At the same time, the chaos in Syria has also allowed ISIL to conquer large parts of the country. ISIL acts as a magnet for several holy warriors from Europe. Young men who have been fascinated by Islamist fundamentalism and violence ideology. These young men, several of whom unfortunately come from Denmark, receive during their stay in Syria or Iraq combat training and knowledge of how to carry out terrorist attacks. It is very dangerous for Denmark, which is why the Syrian warriors have the highest priority for PET. The civil war in Syria has created a breeding ground for terrorism and the growth of ISIL, resulting in more than half of the Syrian population of approx. 23 million people are fleeing their homes. Of these, over 4 million have fled, mainly to Syria's neighbouring countries. The solution in Syria is the main cause of the widespread flows of refugees out of the region, including to Europe. As of 2015, Russian involvement in the conflict and renewed strength for Assad's regime. At the end of 2015, there has been some progress in the political track, where a circle of important global and regional countries with the United States and Russia has met in Vienna to discuss the options for a political solution to the conflict. In this context, it is expected that negotiations between the regime and the Syrian opposition will begin here at the beginning of 2016 in order to reach agreement on a transition process and to lay the foundations for a genuine ceasefire. Denmark supports efforts to promote a political solution to the bloody civil war, including: as part of the Danish Syria Stabilisation Programme. Denmark also supports the Syria programme with 100 million. kr. e.g. the police and judicial sector bodies in the opposition-controlled areas of Syria, and the programme contributes to the provision of basic services in the opposition-controlled areas. Finally, Denmark also supports Lebanon in securing its border with Syria so that the conflict does not spread into Lebanon. Syria's neighbouring country Iraq remains highly unstable and characterised by political violence and Islamic terror. Denmark has actively participated in the fight against ISIL by among others. to have deployed F-16 aircraft in Kuwait as part of the international coalition against ISIL. Danish aircraft, together with our allies, have bombed a number of targets in Iraq to expel ISIL. Denmark has been present in Mali for a number of years, and during 2016 the presence will be further strengthened, as the Danish Parliament decided in November 2015 to contribute transport aircraft as well as special forces. In addition, Denmark remains present in Afghanistan, albeit with less effort than in the past. Danish soldiers are no longer in battle, but instead contribute with training of the local security forces, so that Afghans themselves can provide security in the country. It is a difficult task with many challenges. Denmark is one of the world's largest maritime nations, which is why we have a natural interest in the safety of the oceans and especially in the problems of pirate attacks. For a number of years Denmark has taken on a significant role with significant civilian and military contributions to the international community against piracy on the Somali coast in East Africa in particular. International efforts have led to a marked drop in the threat to international merchant ships. Denmark's contribution to the NATO mission in the Gulf of Aden has therefore been a success and has had a direct impact on the safety of Danish seamen. In addition to the countries mentioned, there are a large number of other countries where Danish soldiers, experts, observers and teachers have been sent out. Common to all of them is that their efforts help to strengthen global security and thus security and security in Denmark. This is an important effort, which is why we owe these people a great deal of thanks. It is a work which is often carried out in difficult and dangerous conditions far from the family and the home environment, and that, of course, calls for the deepest respect. Finally, I would like to sign up for a good and substantive statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128114756	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128114802	Thank you. I just need to make sure I heard right. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left: does the Left believe that Denmark should enter Syria with military force and actively participate in the war there, directly contrary to UN resolutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128114819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128114821	No, if the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten has got it out of my rapporteur's speech, I have either said something that was not on my piece of paper, or the rapporteur has heard wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128114830	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128114837	That means that the Left will not enter Syria by military means? I also think that would be very reckless. I also do not understand why the Left is calling for us to play with the muscles, the military muscles, in the Ukraine conflict via NATO. Does the rapporteur think it is quite sober and sober that there is an opportunity to resolve the Ukraine conflict via NATO?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128114858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128114901	No, and I didn't say that either. I do not know what interest the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten might have in shooting it in my shoes. What I have said is that it is important for Ukraine, as a country, to have the opportunity to choose for itself. I think that a nation state should have the opportunity to choose whether to go one way or the other. I think that is an extremely important message, and I hope that Enhedslisten shares that message.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128114925	Thank you. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128114930	I would like to know whether there are no considerations in the Left as to what interests we have and how much use it has been for us to have taken part in so much warfare in Iraq from 2003 and then in Afghanistan, but also, as such, any reflection on what is happening at the moment in Iraq, including whether it is satisfactory that we still have a government in Baghdad, the Abadi government, which, of course, does not include the Sunni to a great extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128115010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128115014	I am on target for both our efforts in Iraq and in Afghanistan, but of course I regret that we have not achieved our goals all the way. I hope that the rapporteur from the SF is aware that it is a considerably more democratic Iraq that we have today than we had before. Democracy should, of course, include all sections of the population, including the Sunni.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128115037	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128115043	Yes, but what we're talking about is how to deal with Islamic State. There is the problem that as long as there are so many Sunni Muslims who have nowhere else to go, they go to the Islamic State for protection. That is why it is a very big problem to have some Shia militias, which in many ways are just as oppressive as the Islamic State. You have to get that under control if it is to make sense that we are military in Iraq. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128115117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128115120	I agree with the rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party that there are many challenges in this and the rapporteur has described one of the challenges. That, of course, is something that needs to be resolved, but it is not something that we can solve from here. I have the impression that we are pushing in the places we can because the main objective and the main enemy are ISIL.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128115140	Thank you. There are no more questioners for this rapporteur. I have to postpone the sitting until 8:00. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128130003	The sitting is resumed, and the next rapporteur is the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, Mr President. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128130013	Thank you and thank you for your statement from the Government and the Secretary of State. Security is created more through development and peace than through military action. That is my clear view. However, the statement clearly shows how Denmark prioritises military contributions over humanitarian and development contributions in these years. The report mentions humanitarian and development aid only to a limited extent and always in the end. This is a misunderstanding and I think it is quite unambitious to go to the security issue in this way. In these years, there is a crucial need for countries to dare to think out of the box and contribute to the development of the world with a more constructive and development-oriented approach. In the Enhedslisten we are in favour of Denmark's foreign policy being governed by strategic considerations. That is why the debate over the coming months is important. But I am not optimistic after hearing one of Peter Taksøe-Jensen's first lectures. All the evidence suggests that the government will allow commercial and military considerations to prevail and allow development aid to finance the bill. With the wars in Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya, Denmark has helped destabilise the region. Chaos, conflict and poverty breed extremism. Because of our involvement, Denmark has a special responsibility to help ensure humanitarian aid and the development of human rights where we have helped destabilise. And I am very sad that the present government does not even want to try to learn from Iraq and Afghanistan, rejecting altogether the completion of the Iraq Commission. In Syria it is important to note that the Kurds are in the forefront of the fight against ISIL. It is problematic that they are not mentioned in the report as a central partner. If Denmark is to contribute to peace and security in the region, it is essential to support the Kurdish autonomy in Northern Syria, both in their fight against ISIL and in the construction of a democratic and diverse society. It's impressive that they can do both at the same time. Denmark must provide humanitarian support and capacity building to the Kurds and, if necessary, also help them to have the weapons needed to defend themselves. At the same time, it is essential that Denmark press for the Kurds to be involved in the peace negotiations and Turkey to open the borders so that help can be provided in the area. Furthermore, the Kurdish organisations on the terrorist list must be removed. It makes no sense at all for us to praise their heroic efforts on earth, where we do not dare to be, while at the next moment we refer to them as terrorists. It's double standards of the worst drawer. Finally, I am surprised that the economic blockade against ISIL is not mentioned at all. It makes no sense for ISIL to sell oil through Turkey, for example. Israel, and that afterward they can buy the most modern weapons. The economic blockade is hollow as a sieve, and I ask the government to ensure that at least as much effort is made on that point, as I think it is the most direct way to weaken ISIL. It is, of course, a good thing that initiatives are being taken again for peace negotiations, and it is crucial that Denmark backs up. I would also like us to have a capacity in the future so that we can actively participate in facilitating such peace processes, rather than just looking at a country like this. Norway. At the moment, it is Norway and Cuba who are helping to facilitate the perhaps most successful peace process on the planet at the moment, namely in Columbia. We should also have such capacity in Denmark, for example. in that a peace and conflict resolution institute was set up in one of the universities, so that we could also be there where it really is. It is surprising that refugees and migration are no more in the report. Lack of security for a great many people is a major reason why people are forced to flee. The lack of security is due, among other things, to the fact that the areas around Syria are heavily pressured. Denmark can contribute much more here, and I have seen that a number of countries have called for a doubling of UN contributions to refugees now that a donor conference is to be held, and I hope that Denmark will be at the forefront there, as we do not just have to talk about this happening in the neighbourhood; it must also be the case that the United Nations has the capacity to do so. I have visited Jordan myself, where we could see that the country is collapsing. They only have the money to give the refugees half of what the UN recommends, and that is quite crazy. So I would also like to ask the many bourgeois parties who repeatedly mention the neighbourhood as the place where things have to be resolved to help get the wallet up and pay the bill. Everything else is empty talk. The Palestine issue is central to resolving it. That is the key to solving many other problems and a positive step would be that Denmark recognised Palestine as an independent state. I find it sad that the then government did not do so in 2014, and I would call for a solution to be found this year. Furthermore, Denmark and other European countries should launch an economic blockade against Israel until they want to sit down at the negotiating table. It is quite indecent for a country such as Israel to be able to block any possibility of finding a peaceful solution in which the Palestinians will have the opportunity to develop in their own country. I would also like to mention climate change here. Why are they mentioned only briefly in this account? Climb changes, with consequent droughts and floods, as well as rising world seas and temperatures, are a crucial threat to world security. The climate crisis leads to massive refugee flows and food crises that can destabilise countries and entire regions. Denmark should therefore take the lead in the fight for a green transition, also to create a safer world. In our opinion, development aid is the best security factor, and it is therefore deeply problematic and directly stupid that the government has cut so deep in Danish development aid. Denmark could make a serious difference in this area and has done so in the past. This would contribute positively to the development and security of the world. Let us take the lead in getting development aid up to 1%. of gross national income, so we can go out proudly with the tab and brag about what we're doing. Just before Christmas we saw that the government totally overheard a majority in the Folketing who wanted a return of 1.4 billion. kr. to development aid. It is rare to experience such arrogance from a government, and it is even from a government that has a very narrow parliamentary basis. I would like to make a plea for a change of policy in this area. It cannot be that a majority in the Folketing cannot find sensitivity for its positions. Then there's Russia. Russia's attempt to restore the role of major power and Russia's involvement in the Syria conflict, as well as its activities in Ukraine and the Baltic Sea, does not look good. I have no confidence in Putin, nor do I have any confidence in the oligarch governments that are in charge of Ukraine. There is no point in us playing along with the use of military power as a threat to each other. It can only lead one way, namely to armament and more cold war. The Ukraine conflict is a task that must be resolved politically, and that is why both the European Union and NATO have played a negative role by pretending through the two organisations that we wanted to help solve the problem. After all, nobody imagines that we should send in a military force, so why on earth keep talking about NATO having to be stronger to resolve the conflict in Ukraine? It is no good if we do not get to grips with it politically. There is no point in us not looking at the Crimean crisis in a nuanced way. And if the people of Crimea want to belong to Russia, we must do just as we did to the Danish-German border. Then it has to happen that there will be an internationally monitored referendum, and then you will have to see how it falls out. Apart from that, small initiatives have been taken. The Ukrainians from the east and west and the Russians were supposed to meet in Sønderborg and study the border migration in Denmark. It was the OSCE that had taken the fine initiative. Unfortunately, there was a flare-up of the conflict, so both parties resigned. I think it was one of the most visionary initiatives that has been taken so far, and this shows that our border migration in the south can be used many, many places in the world, that is to say, that we voted on where the border should go and then it was ensured that there was money for minorities to have their own culture and their own language and so on. I would remind you that one of the main points of conflict in Ukraine was whether the East-Ukrainians, or at least the minorities of Russians who are over there, should have the right to speak and use their language. There is much to learn from our border area, and I think we should use it as an export product instead of soldiers and bloated military muscles. Finally, we do not want Denmark to spend 30 billion. kr. To buy fighter planes. It's not gonna make the world any safer. Denmark does not need new aircraft, and I think it is remarkable that even NATO does not demand fighter aircraft. That's why they're 30 billion. kr. Much, much better is spent on development aid and aid for humanitarian interventions around the world. It is a complete error of priority that we would like to call on the government to withdraw.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128131026	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128131030	I'm just a little curious to hear something about Russia. After all, the Enhedslisten has always advocated a great deal not to go in the direction of using military solutions, but to try to come up with all sorts of measures that can lead to détente. What exactly is the party's position on the so-called Nord Stream 2 connection, which Russia and Germany now intend to build directly between Russia and Germany in order to avoid having to pass through Ukraine and the Central European countries? Does Enhedslisten think this is a good idea or a bad idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128131104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128131105	I have no insight into that and can't answer it, so I have to admit that my insight doesn't extend.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128131114	Are there any more brief comments? Sir. Naser Khader, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128131123	I would like to ask the rapporteur about the approx. Ten million internally displaced persons in Syria exposed to Assad's barrel bombs and the brutality of Islamic State daily. What is Enhedslisten going to do to protect them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128131144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128131145	The Enhedslisten cannot protect them, nor do I believe that there are many others who can until we have a peace agreement. That is also why I used a whole section of my speech to plead for a peace agreement. What is the problem is whether the right forces are being invited to the peace agreement. I can be very nervous about that. However, on the day we have a peace agreement and the day we have a ceasefire, I see some great prospects in that we can find, through the UN, ways of protecting the very people who are in Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128131212	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128131214	It could be 5-10 years before we get a peace agreement. What do we do in the meantime? What about no-fly zones, humanitarian corridors? What puts the civilians in the greatest danger is Assad's barrel bombs. Why don't we shoot them down?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128131232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128131233	A no-fly zone is, to the best of my knowledge, an escalation of the war and will not bring any more people to safety, and that is why I would like to say that we must use all the necessary forces. And as Mr. Khader probably remembers, we were fervently in favour of more people sitting at the table already at Geneva I and Geneva II, and I think that Mr. Khader's party and others missed a chance by being so ultimate in the attempts to find a solution. I have the principle that if we are to find a political solution, we must negotiate peace with our opponents.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128131307	Sir. Søren Espersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128131309	In this connection, I would like to ask: does the Enhedslisten also want negotiations to be held with the Islamic State? Should they be directly involved in the peace negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128131320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128131321	At the moment it is not possible to negotiate with the Islamic State, but in my personal opinion it will be necessary at some point. However, I would rather at the moment we put a great deal of effort into stopping the massive flow of money that goes through oil sales to the Islamic State and which is used for the purchase of weapons. If we do not contain them and starve them financially, we will get nowhere and we will never get into a situation where we can stop them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128131350	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128131352	In other words, everything about starving economically has been tried with Iran for 35 years and with Cuba for almost 60 years without much effect. Is this conflict supposed to last so long that you are starved economically by the ISIS, or is it not really just a military dispute with the Islamic State that will be able to stop that organization?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128131423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128131425	I recognize that the world looks like this, and there is no one in this world but the Kurds who wants to go down to earth. They're making a heroic effort, but they're pretty much the only ones doing it in this military part of the game. They defend their territories, and they do so strongly and properly, which is why they must also be treated properly. There is the difference between Iran and ISIL that ISIL is a movement and that Iran is a huge country, and it is clear that it is harder to block a large country like Iran than it is to shut off ISIL.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128131459	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and then we go to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mrs Mette Bock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128131511	First of all, thank you for your statement. That was exciting reading. I think it is remarkable that it is a statement which does not mention, for example. the situation in Israel/Palestine. But this is a brief statement, which is also a priority, and I think this priority will show how quickly the world's hotspots and how quickly the world's conflicts can change and how quickly we will also turn our attention elsewhere if new things happen that threaten us in our own situation. But now to the problems that the security statement actually refers to. First, there is the situation regarding Russia's new self-understanding and the situation in Ukraine. I note that the statement actually maintains the term annexation of Crimea as illegitimate and it is but if someone had predicted just a few years ago that this annexation would take place and would just passively be accepted, then there would have been loud protests. But it happened. In the optics of the Liberal Alliance, we would not have protested at all if, following an internationally supervised referendum, the Crimean people had taken steps to turn to Russia, that is to say, to have followed the rules of international law. It did not happen, after all, that what is happening in Russia at the moment is, as the statement also addresses, that the Russians are trying to relax to a new or re-found role as a major power. I think the real challenge in this issue is to take the small steps. You cannot say that annexing Crimea is a small step, but you take small steps, bite by bit, so we think that perhaps a little more sanctions need to be done, and that is it. Then you take another step, and then we say that what do we do then, but it is difficult to see that you really get the mark that this is unacceptable. I still really do not see any evidence that the economic sanctions that we support in the Liberal Alliance, which the European Union is currently implementing, are something that seriously affects how Russia is going to act in the future. But we have to wait to see that. The border conflicts between Russia and Ukraine are also interesting. We have not heard much of them in recent times either, because there seem to be other and bigger problems. But I would also like to mention, as a former rapporteur, Mr President. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten has also mentioned that in December there should have been an OSCE-initiated conference with a majority and minorities along the Russian-Ukrainian border, which should have just discussed whether we have inspiration to give from the Danish-German border country. Unfortunately, it was cancelled, but I hope that the initiative will be taken up again, because we have so much to inspire in the great world when it comes to allowing the majority and minorities to live peacefully side by side. Of course, for obvious reasons, much of the report also concerns ISIL's totally unacceptable activities and attempts to destabilise the whole world. It is an intolerable situation that triggers large flows of refugees and a humanitarian disaster of enormous proportions. To put it bluntly, I think one gets the feeling that we stumble from stone to stone. The Liberal Alliance supports Danish participation in international activities to stem the situation and create a basis for lasting peace. The question is whether, in reality, as things have now developed year after year, we are helping to maintain and prolong, by this leap from stone to stone, a conflict with the major human and security policy consequences that must result from it. I do not think it is too strong to say that, as things stand now, when you look into Syria, it seems to a great extent like a war on the other hand, a war on the one hand. Deputy. And who pays the price? Well, it's the civilian population of the country that's about to be completely destroyed. Nor would we have imagined, just a few years ago, that in a country such as Syria, there would be a situation in which more than half of the population have been displaced from their homes. What is the solution to this is not easy, but a small country like Denmark, which has sometimes proved to be wise too, should perhaps make itself clearer when it comes to finding answers to how we can take steps further and not just jump from stone to stone. The Liberal Alliance's call to the government will be that we must push, and the prerequisite for pushing is that we have a strategy. That is why we are calling on the government, as we have been doing for the last 3-4 years, whatever the colour of the government, to draw up a new foreign policy strategy which combines foreign policy, development policy, trade policy and security policy based on the situation we have in the world today. There is a glaring need for this if we are to be able to prioritize and to make Danish influence felt on the international stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128132053	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Yeah, someone came there, and it's from sir. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128132058	Thank you. And thank you for your speech from the Liberal Alliance. I would like to hear from Mrs Mette Bock whether she does not think that there are some risks involved in immersing these areas when you hear how Taksøe and others talk about it. I fear that it will end up with trade policy and security policy taking precedence and that development policy will have to be cleaned up, patched up and paid for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128132126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128132127	There is always a risk in developing a strategy, but what we want and what we call for is that the government invites us to a broad political debate. In other words, all the political parties in the Folketing will be involved in that discussion, and that is where we will have to take the political or ideological battles that lie in it. But I cannot help mentioning that I find it interesting that a man such as Erik Boel, who has been internationally committed for many years and among others. has been an adviser to the Social Democrats, quite recently had a very exciting chronicle in Information, where even with the left-wing background he has, he actually set out to rethink the whole way of making development policy and also think it into a security policy and trade policy context. So there are also porridges in it on the left, so that we have to think on in new ways, as well as immersing the four areas that have traditionally been very separate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128132225	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128132227	I saw the crown and thought of the old saying that when a certain man grows old, he goes to a monastery. It's fine. I am not opposed to rethinking all sorts of different things. We did so in the time of the previous government with development aid. But does Mrs Mette Bock think that there is something in Taksøe's statements and writings so far which suggests that this will be an equal and open process?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128132255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128132257	For the time being, we are at the beginning of the process, and that is why, until this happens, I would like to trust that the government will actually invite a broad political discussion on these matters. At any rate, I think it would be quite wrong to stop the discussion because you sense that you are on the wrong track and in the wrong direction. Sir. Christian Juhl must assert his influence from where he sits, just as we in the Liberal Alliance will try to assert our influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128132323	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128132325	Now, at an earlier stage of the debate, I mentioned that during the Cold War, the United States paid half of NATO's expenditure. Now they're paying 75%. Is it reasonable from LA's point of view that the United States should stand by and will the Liberal Alliance help to find money for increased investment in defence?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128132350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128132351	We want defence, like all other areas in Denmark, to stand by when development is implemented, when new thinking is carried out and savings are made in areas in order to be able to prioritise them elsewhere. So if that is possible within the budget that is, to give a different priority if the need arises, then we will support it, but we are not in favour, as I think Mr. Søren Espersen is aware of the need to increase the defence budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128132417	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128132419	But now the last three defence reconciliations, that is, over the last 15 years, have been austerity exercises and you are at the bottom of what you can afford to your NATO allies. Against this background, is it not reasonable that Denmark, as a prosperous country, should fulfil the commitments and agreements we have made with NATO? I know that Mrs Mette Bock is always interested in complying with international agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128132447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128132449	We must follow the commitments we have and, if priority is to be given to the defence budget, we will be taking part in a discussion on this. We're totally in on it. But we do not want to increase the overall defence budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128132501	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur and go to the rapporteur for the alternative. It's sir. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128132511	I would also like to thank you very much for your statement. I am glad that this is precisely a security policy statement, because in the alternative we have chosen to be both peace and defence rapporteurs, and it is not just to make fun of words. It is simply because we believe that there is an indictment that is lacking in our foreign policy in Denmark. That is that peace is actually an opportunity. Defence is something that comes in if you are afraid of something or fear something, and in Denmark I actually think we could think a little more about that there are very few things that we have reason to be afraid of, very few things that we have reason to fear. It is because of a long historical tradition that we have earned not much fear, because we have contributed very strongly internationally, we have had a very respected humane view, as we have among other things. in writing. - (DE) By being the first to sign the Refugee Convention, and since then we have probably always been recognised as some of those to whom we can go if we have a good idea of how to run a welfare society in which we try to give equal rights to everyone. That is why our normal debates on defence and our military action are somewhat one-sided. I also miss in this statement a little more focus on what comes ahead of the conflicts. Everything cannot be in a statement, so it may also be one of the reasons why it is not just here, but I note that it is only in the end that I read something about the mediation potential and the role that champions the security policy challenges that may come from climate crises. The agenda for which many people know the alternative, namely the desire for a sustainable green transition, can be difficult for many people to really understand when we talk about security policy. I had to chew on it myself a second time before I started taking it into the conversations I have with people when we speak defense, because I think it may be a little long-haired when we talk climate and there are people dying around the world when we send soldiers out who sacrifice their lives. Some of what came before these conflicts, among others. Before the crisis that has arisen in Syria, the drought of several years has led the people who lived in poverty to live in even greater poverty. The people who ruled did so in a way that gave the people even more reason to want something else. The thing about wanting something else, because you don't believe in the future, is what we are actually experiencing is the very greatest risk to Denmark and probably some of the only thing we should fear as long as we maintain our policy and contribute very strongly internationally. When we look at what we go and fear and defend ourselves against and go out and fight in the world, it is far along the way some people who are actually threatening us in our own country that we are afraid of. Many of the terrorist acts we have experienced in Europe, many of those who are fighting on the side of ISIL, are people who come from Western countries, at least live in Western countries, and are travelling on a voyage to avenge some injustice in their eyes. That is why I would like us to talk more about our former strong reputation in the world than that of the nation that did not go out and was warlike with self-interest, which could legitimise, that we intervened in some places and not elsewhere, that we had an alliance with mainly the United States, which sometimes made it difficult to understand why we chose to do one rather than the other. I would like us to say more that now we simply have to stand on our own feet and then we must cultivate some of what we are really, really good at. We have a reputation and a reputation, and we have some competences in defence, which means that we may be some of those who can provide the most powerful mediation and the most powerful humanitarian solution to many problems, even though we are a tiny country. Many of those who could go out and make these humanitarian solutions would be some of those who are in our defense. We see today that we are sending special forces, for example, to Mali for peacekeeping. We can discuss for a long time whether it's the right thing to send. But it is not because these special forces, who can so much defend themselves and attack, have to go out and attack when we send them out. I'd like that if we turned around the defense in general. Perhaps we should rethink our entire defenses and think that all the talented people we have are not necessarily going out to attack? Maybe they're just supposed to be peacekeepers? Perhaps we should put our eggs in the basket with the UN, as the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, Mr. Christian Juhl, has also emphasised earlier? I have heard him many times highlight it in the short time I have been in here, and sometimes I think the opportunity is being waved aside a little. It may be because Europe itself and the European Union do not have a solution. It is not there today either, but the voices I hear from what might be called the Foreign Minister of the European Union are that you want to mediate more, you want to provide assistance, you want to take responsibility for yourself. I think we should put ourselves right in the slipstream of Denmark and think that it is here on this side of the Atlantic that we should find our allies in the future. And then we should be incredibly happy with what we have received from the United States, all the support and support and the close relationship we have. We must maintain that. However, there should be no doubt as to what our own interests are and when we are doing something to help and when we are doing something on the basis of economic interests. I see a bit of a challenge, not in the statement that we have received, which I actually think is very good, because it is very broad and nuanced, but in the fact that there is also a need for aid in Africa, there is also a need for help in places in the world where we may not just see the obvious commercial interest. But what I have been able to see from Taksøe's first messages is that it is very much in our own interests that we must engage. We just get a question like this that we have very, very, very difficult to say yes to in the alternative. Should we only help those places where we think it helps us to help ourselves? This is very far from the way we want to conduct our foreign policy. One of the main points for me is also to pull the activist foreign policy back to something that does not have to do with the military. Unfortunately, the word has been hijacked over a number of years, so activeistic or dynamic or well-meaning foreign policy, where one goes out and takes responsibility, has been associated with the military. I don't think that's necessary at all. We have the opportunity to rethink it completely and, as I heard from the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, we do not need to take these small steps all the time. We need vision. And I hope there are some strong visions coming from Mr. Taksøe's study, which is under way and which must set a course. I really would like us to do something more. So when we're going to shop for the military, when we're going to buy fighters, when we're going to buy tanks, I'd like to ask: do we even need tanks anymore? Where do we need them? If we're gonna use them to rehearse at home, maybe you should simulate that exercise instead. We'll probably need planes to tie the three shields together. I have quite a lot of understanding for that can be a rewarding thing, including in the Arctic. But do we even know if that's what we need? What if we could borrow it in the Nordic countries and create strong alliances which are already so small? Could that be a way to do it instead? I think it could, if we look at where particular interests and interests are. What I am afraid of by going into politics is the self-interest I feel as power sneaks up through my fingers. The power we have in the alternative is not so violent, even in this area, but still I think it is essential to have it in mind that it is there. If we are not careful, we forget to look at ourselves with other eyes than our own. And that is, in fact, what I think is the most important consideration, in addition to the fact that we must take climate policy and the security risk that lies in ignoring it, very, very seriously, because in a few years, refugees and migrants will come in a number that we cannot even imagine. Then we will have to assess whether our refugee convention also applies to climate refugees. Maybe that's number one. 1. That comes before security policy. But no. 2 is to be able to see ourselves with the eyes of others. We have experienced in recent days what party politics in Denmark can do about the picture in the world. Edward Snowden is tweetering, and then he reaches many more people than we can ever do with it is very important to stress to me • our skilled ministers and well-meaning government. I may disagree with it, but I have never had that responsibility, so I cannot say how we should have done it either. No matter how well they go out and fight to man these things in the ground, we can fight for it for a really, really long time if mr. Snowden's tweeting something. That also means that it means something if we party politically go and tease each other, and if I do, for example. asks about the interpretation agreement or wants to reopen the Iraq Commission. At the moment, there are some who think it is going to be more teasing than that I actually want to achieve something, I would like them to push my ears. At least I've asked 7-8 people to do that in our staff. If it starts to approach some teasing, then they must stop me, because it is not in Denmark's interest, no matter how transparent I think it should be. So I think our second biggest challenge is that we should be able to focus on how others perceive us. So when we think there's something okay and something that's right, something that you can't get bumped over into the big world, we should think that we're the tiny elephant that's gungling incredibly high at home when we talk, and we can start a whole lot of things out in the world, but as we start it, we can break our reputation and rumor in a very, very short time. What we have here is whether we are working with the United States or with Europe and the European Union, if there is a security policy defence device here in the European Union, which is more likely to be trusted, is that we in Denmark have a unique reputation, and we must not allow that to be muddled by commercial interests or cooperation agreements with the United States, where we have to keep one thing or the other secret, because we cannot go out publicly with it, as it may damage relations with the United States. We simply must not destroy that. In Denmark, we have a unique position in the field of security policy and a history that means that we have to make very, very long-term choices instead of just taking small steps that repeat some of the mistakes we have already made.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128133525	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Søren Espersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128133529	Thank you for your statement. Now it was said that the alternative would like Denmark to maintain its relationship with the United States. How do you do that when the United States feels that we are not lifting the part of responsibility that we have to do and when we rely on the United States, as I said, to pay 75%. of NATO's expenditure? In practical terms, the alternative guaranteed this autumn will be invited to the first negotiations for a new defence settlement. How do you do that? Is it true that we are not going to have more tanks, that we are not going to have more fighters, that we are not going to have some armored crew cars? If that is the attitude one has, I think it will be quite a short time before the alternative will be asked not to come anymore. Now all I'm guessing is, but I think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128133622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128133623	I see it as a very curious question and a sincere question. I also think that when we get this far, people will have abandoned their restrictive beliefs, in relation to who the alternative is and what we might want. And if we then say we don't want tanks or planes, it must be because we have another ace up our sleeve. There I think that if we come in and want to contribute to those negotiations and try to be there, it must be because we have another solution. It is precisely there that we want to focus on contributing humanitarianly and contributing under UN tabs rather than NATO's. It is not to override the role of NATO. After all, the situation we are in now cannot be solved alone by going out as peace ambassadors. I have also said in the past that, although we are very critical of our military actions, we probably have a situation, among other things. with ISIS, where it is unrealistic to believe that we should not use military. We can try to create room for a debate without a military, but at some point the military will have to be used to do something about it. So we will go in with an open mind and perhaps also be open to buying fighter planes if we find out that the vision of the government and the Defence Committee fits in and is the best contribution Denmark can make to the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128133733	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128133735	I am frankly confused, because I think it is said on the one hand that there is nothing about fighters, tanks and such things, but on the other hand it might be possible to find out anyway. I would like a slightly clearer answer: is 23-24 billion. kr. a year a reasonable amount to pay to the defense? And if you want to help buy new fighters, will you help buy the necessary tanks, armored crew cars, etc. to be used? Are you prepared to pay the cost of maintaining a military?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128133810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128133811	We are not necessarily ready to pay billions of dollars to maintain a military unless we find out that a military is needed. I believe that we need a military, a professional intervention force and, in particular, a humanitarian force to make peace-keeping efforts so that we, together with the United Nations, can make the strongest contribution we can from Denmark. But I don't want to get thrown into the back of my head, that it's flyy or something like that, when I say that we won't decide whether we're going to buy fighter planes now, because it depends entirely on what kind of fighters we're going to buy and what we're going to use them for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128133846	Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128133849	Thank you. I have to ask some questions so that we do not misunderstand each other and thereby make mistakes in the debate. Sir. René Gade says they are in favour of us having a military to do something humanitarian. After all, we are talking about strengthening humanitarian and non-military efforts, and I do not quite see what specially trained troops can do in a non-military effort, for example. in Mali, but also elsewhere. Would it not be better for some mediators to be trained, for some people who knew the power conditions in the country into which they enter, etc., and helped to enter directly? Now I mentioned, for example. Colombia, where Norway, Cuba play a very active role and where Denmark is passive because we have no capacity in this area. In such a situation it does not help to send combat troops or anything else. There we need to build up non-military efforts to get in. Wouldn't it be possible to try to separate it? Because I do not believe that it may be that the rapporteur does so that you can have non-military action inside the military.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128133954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128133955	At any rate, there is a huge challenge when we put in people who have clear military capabilities and will also be able to fire weapons, and sometimes we can be in doubt whether some people actually have to fire weapons against us before we have to start defending ourselves. Then we have a critical situation when we have to define what is what. But I think we just have a reality where it is not possible to talk about Denmark not having a military and not having to contribute militarily. You can talk about phasing out over x years, but I also think it would be wrong to defend and the talented people we have there to say that our security policy does not contain a military, because it does today, and that is why it must at least be a glance into the future, where we say that it does not, which I cannot give today. Today we have a military. I think that it is necessary for Denmark to have a military in order to be able to contribute internationally, but it is not certain that it should look as it does today. I don't think so. We need to weight much more foreign aid, we need to weight much more peacekeeping efforts, and then, every time we think about actively engaging in anything, we need to make sure that there is a UN mandate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128134054	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128134058	We have the merit of discussing this because UN mandates are many things, from the peacekeeping, pacifist efforts where you are present, to the stabilising, with which you have hardcore weapons and serious hardware. It's very, very different situations we're talking about. But I'd like to hear what Mr. René Gade, that the time has come to support the military with more money when the government has stolen a lot of money from development aid? Isn't it time we stopped bombers and more foreign aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128134132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128134134	I totally agree. That is also what makes it so incredibly difficult, because if we are to contribute, as Mr. Søren Espersen's side, which we really should do in relation to the agreements we have with NATO, should of course be added more money, but we do not want that in the alternative. We don't want to add any more money to a military. On the other hand, we must add more money to development aid. So we have such a recovery time right now, when we need to find out when we can start doing it right from, and the reason why I would rather be very nuanced than very bastant in my statements is simply that we have to take very seriously the situation we ourselves have been involved in creating. I mean, we have a responsibility out there in Europe. We owe a little here and here because we have had a share of responsibility, and that is why we also have to support the things we have already promised today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128134214	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we go to the rapporteur from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128134229	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his statement on security policy. It is, of course, a statement that looks back and not so much forward, but it does, of course, give rise to some fundamental discussions on where the Danish foreign and security policy is. And let me say straight away: I am quite happy with what the statement says, but perhaps I am a little less satisfied with some of the things that are not stated in the statement and which I hope the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence will perhaps be able to make us a little more aware of when they come up here. The first thing I am thinking of is the whole fight against extremism and terrorism, where, from my own time as Foreign Minister, I can well recognise the contributions that have been described here, but where I think there is much missing, to put it nicely, an explanation of the tracks in the coalition's work against ISIL, which is not about military efforts or stabilisation efforts. I am thinking, of course, of combating foreign fighters; I am thinking of combating the sources of funding that these terrorist organisations have. On several occasions, I have called on the Foreign Minister perhaps to speak out a little when it comes to the sources of funding that come from some of the major regional players who are, after all, conducting proxy wars in these countries. Here I would like to see greater pressure from the European Union on them right now when the negotiations are about to begin. I think that is necessary when we talk about stopping sources of funding. And finally, there is the whole delegitimation of ISIL's fire and narrative. I miss that; I would like to hear more about it. The second thing I miss is a slightly closer description of where Denmark is at the moment and has been in the past year in relation to efforts, dialogue and problems with Russia. After all, it is quite obvious from the statement that economics is trying Russia to undermine the Ukrainian Government by inter alia. to block Ukraine's loan agreement with international creditors... threats to drive the transit gas to Central Europe bypassing Ukraine as well as a general import ban..... I think it would be interesting to hear where the Danish Government is actually on the issue that is being discussed throughout Europe at the moment, namely whether it is the right timing now to create a new gas pipeline between Russia and Germany. It goes without saying that if Denmark is asked whether there can be such a pipeline on Danish soil, we must of course live up to the Convention on the Law of the Sea and do it properly. But it does not, of course, exempt the Danish Government from having a political position on what is being discussed in the Council at the moment, namely whether, as South Stream did, you should perhaps say: this is not just the right time to give Russia the great geopolitical advantage of being able to turn off the gas to Ukraine and the Central European countries without any consequences. That is what the intention is. There is no need for the capacity there is ample capacity in the current gas pipelines it is solely geopolitically motivated. And I think that the lead, Nord Stream 2, has great potential both as a stick and as a carrot in the continued dialogue with Russia. I meet a lot of people, not least from the Baltic countries, who ask me what Denmark's position really is on that question. And it could be exciting to hear it. A third point I miss has been raised by several others, and that is what the government has done in relation to the Arctic. Even in the first half of 2015, I have done a lot in the Arctic area, so it annoys me, of course, that there has been little focus on our opportunities and potential under the auspices of the Kingdom Community to upgrade, you might say, both our preparedness, but also our geopolitical, security policy thinking in relation to the Arctic. Last but not least, I feel somewhat, as several other rapporteurs have said, that in anno 2016, a month after the major climate agreement in Paris, it may seem to me that it is a little untimely thinking that neither mention is made of climate challenges nor the perspective here, including the role that Denmark can play, nor the parts of Danish development aid that have a direct purpose in such a way to try to improve security, not only for the countries in which we operate, but also for Denmark. That is why I would like to conclude by saying that I come from a party that appreciates the fact that, when you share your views, you can have some clear debates. That is why I was pleased with the contribution of the Danish People's Party, but I also disagreed very much. I'm gonna have to tell you straight. Where I agree, sir. Søren Espersen and his party are where he says that Danish foreign policy is of course about taking care of Danish interests. But that it should not be in Denmark's interests to work for stability and democracy and well-being for much more of the inhabitants of the planet than we do today, I simply do not understand. Now we should not have the whole foreign debate here. We had it yesterday, in ample measure, and we should not have the whole debate about where Denmark is internationally renowned, but quite soberly I just think that the only lasting solution to the refugee crisis we have is not a snag solution, but, as has actually been achieved a long way along the road in many parts of the world, to ensure proper living conditions for those who are being driven on the run today, so that they are not forced to flee. That is why I think it is very much in Denmark's very clear self-interest, in addition to humanitarian principles, in addition to all sorts of other good human reasons, to take action. That is why I also lack that dimension in the security policy statement. 'Cause there's thanks.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128134851	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128134855	I have recently heard many radicals be very concerned about the refugees who come here and their situation, but it is rare for me to hear what the Radicals intend to do with the millions of internally displaced persons who are in Syria. How do we protect them? How do we make sure they don't get hit by Assad's barrel bombs? I know that we are going to negotiate agreements and so on, and it may take 5-10 years, but how will we protect them until then?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128134931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128134933	I kind of agree with Mr. Simpson. Naser Khader, who has been out on several occasions saying that we need to put greater pressure on the countries that orchestrate what is currently happening in Syria. In other words, we will not get rid of Assad until Iran and Russia decide that this should be the end, and I think that we could put greater pressure on both Russia and Iran in this context, just as I also believe that we could put greater pressure on Saudi Arabia in terms of their support for some of the groups in Syria. Nor will I reject the idea of establishing safe zones in relation to Turkey, as Mr. Naser Khader has also mentioned, and also put pressure there. But I also think that one has to be absolutely clear that if one does not do so in some realistic understanding with all the powers I have mentioned here, then it can become a very difficult and bloody round, and it is certainly not something Denmark can go out and do alone. But that is why Denmark could raise its voice in the European Union and advocate that we put even greater pressure on the regional powers, which bear a very large share of the responsibility for what is going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128135035	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128135037	I agree that it is not a problem-free exercise and that it is not something that can be done simply, but I think it is necessary and it requires political will and it requires political pressure. That is why I welcome the announcement that this may be necessary, and I hope that we can push together so that at least the 10 million who flee from one place to another, as well as the towns besieged and where children die of starvation, can be protected. I think there is too much focus on those who are able to come here and too little focus on those who live in holes in the ground.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128135121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128135122	I understand that, and I agree with that for a long time. I think that perhaps the greatest chance of getting close to this kind of thing quite practical might be that, in the context of the international negotiations that are going on and they are going to take time, and there are many stages in them that started by saying that while they are going on, we are setting up safe zones that make these people have a place to go and where they are in the protection of bombs. It could be one way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128135155	Sir. Søren Espersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128135156	I really want to get to grips with this Nord Stream 2 issue, which Mr. Martin Lidegaard talked about, and I must admit that I find it very difficult to understand the position of the Radicals in this. In other words, it is very much a project that is taking place between the European Union and Russia to secure energy supplies into Europe, perhaps precisely in recognition of the fact that you feel that the line that is now is uncertain and that you do not really know where it is going to end. It is, of course, a long-term project, it is not something that will just be put into effect tomorrow, and there is really such a rather strange approach to it that we will probably have the same relationship with Russia in five years' time, in 10 years or in 15 years' time as we now have. For that is not the way the world is organised, and I also think it is a shame to miss a chance at some point to restore a proper relationship between Russia and Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128135252	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128135254	In terms of capacity, the pipeline called Nord Stream 1, plus the lines passing through Ukraine and Central Europe, covers more than ample needs both today and many, many decades into the future. So, technically speaking, there is no need for this wire, at least not for the foreseeable future. I kind of agree that trading with Russia, having a strengthened dialogue with Russia, must be the long-term objective, but when I am a little concerned with the timing of this, it is because I just think that when we have sanctions on Russia in particular in the field of energy, it is a strange time to go in and say that here we are helping Russia with something from a purely geopolitical point of view. And this is not happening between the European Union and Russia, but it is happening between Germany and Russia. And there is currently a very heated debate in both the Commission and the Council of Ministers, where in the Baltic States, in Poland, in all the Eastern European countries, in Italy they are very, very concerned and vertically opposed to it being right now. You could say the other way round; you could say to Russia that we would really like this when we are ready and when we start a partnership again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128135402	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128135403	Is it not true that as uncertain as it is that Russia can close it through Ukraine, so can they also close it in Ukraine? Is it not where the uncertainty really lies and that it can in some way be beneficial to have a safer supply in just such pipes that lie deep below the Baltic Sea?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128135449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128135450	Now Ukraine serves approx. 2 billion It is perhaps one of their most important revenues, so their incentive to shut down the gas, which they also need to use themselves, is very small, whereas Russia's incentive, one might say, to shut down the gas to Ukraine and thus shut down the Ukrainian economy is quite large. And do we dare at a time when they are pursuing a policy which, to put it mildly, is not constructive, to give them that instrument? One final comment from this must be that the Commission is, after all, examining whether this is in line with Europe's security policy interests, the third energy package and the Energy Union, and I think they will come to the conclusion that it is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128135531	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128135532	Now I am slowly beginning to understand what the radical rapporteur was talking about. I would like to ask more generally about Russia's question. After all, it is not long ago that relations between Russia and the EU countries, including Denmark, went the right way. From 1989 onwards, there have been quite a lot of good steps towards more and more dialogue, more and more mutual acceptance of each other's policies and actions, more and more trade together, which means that it has normalized. Yes, at one point Putin asked if he could join both NATO and the European Union. And it hasn't been more human ages since, after all, it was a few years ago. What is the reason why the radical rapporteur cannot see a future perspective in which a political solution can be found relatively quickly, including on the Ukraine issue and the Crimea issue and, for that matter, the situation? After all, it's the same man sitting there. Not because I want to defend Putin, but why do you not believe that it can be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128135641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128135643	I hope, I would say, deep down and with all my heart that this situation will also come and the sooner, the better. There's only that solution. Russia is where Russia is, we are where we are. We could have great benefit and joy from each other, and that is certainly the way we should go. That is why we must always have an outstretched hand and be ready to negotiate with Russia. But when I say: let us not just throw all the eggs in the basket that we have and say yes to something that Russia wants right now, it is precisely because we need something to give the day when Russia instead of occupying other countries, instead of bombing the wrong ones in Syria, instead of not entering into constructive cooperation, actually starts to cooperate. Then, of course, we must be ready to throw all our eggs into that basket, because then we also have something good to offer. I think that, in the field of foreign policy, if you do not support military solutions, you must have something else in your hand, both as a stick and as a carrot, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128135747	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128135749	Now I know a lot of radicals who are concerned with peace and conflict resolution, and they usually teach me that it is not a question of accepting each other's views, but of learning and understanding how the other is thinking. I think Putin sometimes thinks that it is not easy to understand how the Left Government in Denmark thinks, just as we think of him, that there is not much logic in what he does. After all, we are dealing with a partner who only has a military force of 7%. of NATO, which has an economy the size of Italy. Should it be insurmountable to do anything other than destroy each other's trade that we are currently doing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128135832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128135836	No, it would be to everyone's benefit, not least Russia's, also to increase trade cooperation. When I pull this Nord Stream 2 out, it's because it's not just a question of what's good for Russia, it's also a question of this being really, really bad for Ukraine that's gonna lose big revenue. There is no energy policy or commercial argument for it. We do not need capacity, so we can say that it is a purely geopolitical desire from Russia that we are fulfilling, without anyone else really benefiting from it. And there may be good reasons to do so if you want to strengthen the economy and Russia's ability to act, but perhaps you should save it as a gain or a carrot or a reward, if you like, so that Russia may enter a slightly more constructive sphere of cooperation than the one you are experiencing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128135920	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and go to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128135942	I would like to thank you for your statement from the government. As always, it is thorough and comes practically all around. But when you discuss security policy and foreign policy in this way, it is rarely easy to make that kind of statement, because the world is very dynamic and something is happening all the time. A moment's focus is the place, the next moment's focus is suddenly a completely different place and finally a completely third place. That is why, in these discussions, we often run the risk of having such a debate which is being driven up a little and which can be difficult to focus on. Nor will it be easier if you now have a man sitting, a so-called investigator who later this year comes with something that everyone is very interested in. He sometimes takes off on the lid, and then it becomes the discussion in the public space; it has also influenced the discussion a little here today. Let me start by taking as a starting point some of what came from Taksøe-Jensen here recently, where he said that we should be better at prioritising Danish foreign policy and that we should define foreign policy on the basis of the interests we have. I agree with both points of view. We need to give more priority to this, and we need to be better at it, also because, unfortunately, more and more cuts are being made in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but this government has decided to do so. I shall come back to that in a moment. But I also think it is very legitimate to say that it is interests that are the starting point for Danish foreign policy, because that is the way we can legitimise taxpayers, as it were, that we spend so much money in this area. We have embassies around us, we have a readiness in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have a defence that will also be an instrument of our foreign policy, and that must of course be justified on the grounds that it is a matter of some interest to our country. But I would also warn against creating a contradiction between interests and values, because that cannot be separated. In other words, values are also part of the interests we have to work for, we have to fight for, for example. values of democracy and human rights. Just one example might illustrate what I mean: in relation to the fight against the Islamic State, which plays a very important role both in this statement and in the debate, there is very often a focus on whether one is militarily able to fight Islamic State and fight Islamism. But the truth is that you can't fight IS militarily, you have to do it politically. It is a lot about human rights, it is a lot about democracy, and it is a lot about the Sunni Muslims who today feel excluded and therefore only have Islamic State to go to for protection must have somewhere else to be able to find protection than with the Islamic State. After all, this presupposes a democratic society, which requires acceptance and respect for human rights. That is why human rights and values are a completely inseparable part of military operations, for example, which are to be carried out around the world. So it's just to mention that there's a very strong connection between the two things. I would also like to warn against defining interests as being geographically close to us, as there has been a tendency. I therefore agree that the Baltic Sea area and Russia's policy • Putin's blushing nationalism • is a challenge that we must take seriously, including when discussing defence policy. I also agree that the Arctic is, I believe, all agreed on this is a core area of Danish foreign policy, because the Commonwealth is a direct part of the geopolitical challenges that result from climate change in the Arctic region. But there are also things that happen far away from our borders, which of course touch very cash Danish interests. The Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen mentioned the fight against piracy, for example. There we have clear maritime interests to take care of, which is why it makes sense that we are involved in this and also helping to build Somalia through development aid and good governance, state-building on land and so on.It helps, if I may say so, to help the Danish merchant ships so that they are not attacked by pirates. Development aid, the whole refugee problem is being discussed so much at the moment. I shall not go into those caricatures which are in the newspapers today, but simply say that the government should take it more seriously than it does and that a majority in this Parliament should take this matter more seriously than one does. However, I would just like to mention that the whole refugee problem is basically about stabilizing the surrounding areas. In other words, when there is a very close link between food in the refugee camps in Jordan, for example, and the flow of refugees, then it should be a fairly simple matter to address it and then ensure that the UN has sufficient resources and food for the refugees in the refugee camps. It is reasonably affordable, it is cheap and it is far, far cheaper than much of the other thing that you go and do in the region. Similarly, about the other social things, which are often quite low-practical things about ensuring social survival, and also that you go in and then prevent or at least make it less attractive for young people to move to the Islamic State, because the Islamic State pays them money to go over to them. So, young people in those areas that have no future can get a fixed salary, a fixed salary. There is also a risk, if I may say so, of getting into the sacred virgins up there, isn't there? But when they're told it's very good to do it, they do it. But first of all it is something earthly, namely that they can simply cashly get bread on the table that makes them enter the Islamic State. Surely it should be quite simple to offer them a better offer than the Islamic State does. To put it bluntly: security policy and foreign policy can sometimes be as low-practical as is the case here, where we simply go in and provide some people with opportunities for survival, and that is what becomes the driving force for the way we conduct politics. In other words, I believe that there is real reason for us to have a more in-depth discussion of the priorities we have made in Danish security policy the last approx. 15 years, since Anders Fogh Rasmussen introduced the concept of activist foreign policy. As Anders Fogh Rasmussen often did, he also gave it his own interpretation, because it had also been activist in the 1970s and 1960s, but he defined it as such a militaristic foreign policy very close to the United States. This has meant that we have been involved in wars in Iraq, in Afghanistan, in Libya and, most recently, in Iraq again, and, as far as I understand, there are plans that we may also be going to Syria. There is surely reason to ask ourselves: could the money, the resources spent on it, have been spent differently and perhaps have been equally beneficial to Danish interests in terms of stability, in terms of refugee flow, in terms of economic development? I think that is a discussion that is worth taking. Should our profile necessarily be that we are only on the trigger when we are going into military solutions, as was the case when we were going to Libya? We also supported that from the SF back then, I recognise that we did, but I am not sure it was wise, but we did, and we were simply out as the first and were very proud of it. Is that supposed to be our profile? I'm not sure. In fact, I believe that it is necessary to return to the fact that Denmark can play a role in the humanitarian field, in the field of conflict prevention, but also, of course, that, if we find it meaningful, we can agree, if I may say so, to military operations, as we are currently doing in Iraq. But it must be meaningful, and it must have a political purpose, and it must form part of a political context where it makes sense. I think you should do that study. What has been the effect of the Danish activist foreign policy over the last 15 years? What have been the results, of good things, of bad things that could have been done differently? And how are we going to organise our foreign policy in the coming years? There might be a need to have a major statement from the government about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128141005	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Espersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128141007	Now Mr. Holger K. Nielsen term low-practical solutions. I would just like to address this in relation to the Arctic, because it is constantly being said that we must give priority to the Arctic. What does that mean in SF's understanding? Does this mean that the Navy must be significantly strengthened at the next defence settlement? Or what do you mean when you say that we should give priority to the Arctic?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128141037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128141037-2	The low-practical had something to do with the refugee situation down in the refugee camps. It was in this context that I mentioned it. Then I would like to say that this means that, in my opinion, it must be given priority at the expense of the participation in war in the Middle East, which I believe we must downgrade, and then there is a need for more attention to be paid to the Arctic. Whether it's the Navy that needs more ships or more capacity, I can't say. I will not deny that. I think it is just as relevant to talk about monitoring activities, emergency activities, etc., so I do not think that should be settled now. However, I certainly believe that there is a basis for us both to go in on foreign policy and on defence policy and to discuss how, if I may say so, we can give a different priority to some resources. It will then be the Arctic that will be given priority and the war effort in the Middle East that will be downgraded.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128141142	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128141144	But it is important to understand what it means when you say that you want to give priority to the Arctic. So, in my understanding, this means that the Navy must be significantly strengthened, that more inspection vessels simply need to be built and that there must also be frigates that can operate in the Arctic area. It can also mean more aerial surveillance, which can also contribute to combat aircraft. Part of having fighter planes is also that you operate as a monitor. So I'd like something a little more concrete to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128141225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128141226	I think, sir. Søren Espersen is making a big mistake in defining military priorities only. We all have an interest in ensuring that there is no militarisation of the Arctic region. It's actually under control at the moment. That is why there is also agreement among the Arctic coastal states that it should be kept under control and that political solutions should be created. That is why I am not in favour of us starting to militarise the area, but we need to have greater attention on it, and I firmly believe that monitoring could be satellites, and it could be other things that one should have the opportunity to discuss in terms of Arctic. But it is also a great deal about the political energy that is being spent on it and a lot of political energy needs to be used in this area, for example. how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs prioritises their resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128141323	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we go to the Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128141342	Thanks to the government for the statement. After all, the statement informs about Denmark's contribution to the international missions, our commitment to NATO and Russia's behaviour. There is also something about terrorism and extremism, about piracy and about the US nuclear agreement with Iran. First of all, let me stress that the Conservatives are very pleased that there is a great deal of agreement in the Danish Parliament on security policy on long stretches, and the political decisions we have taken for many years have also shown this, i.e. cooperation across the middle of Danish policy on security policy. It provides stability in Danish foreign policy and thus also serves Danish interests and Danish values. I am very proud that we, Denmark, a small country, but a large country in the world, are so committed and contribute so much to making a difference around the world. It is important that we, as a democratic country, help reduce the pain in the world, help the poor, protect the weak and combat evil. It is great that we have so many soldiers, policemen, relief workers, doctors and others who help in hotspots in the world. Thank you. Denmark's contribution in 2015 has been really big and active in a number of hot spots around the world. We have many, many deployed, and they are making an enormous effort. We, the Conservatives, are very much in favour of an active foreign policy and have the ambition to maintain our active foreign policy, but the means must, of course, also keep up with the ambitions. Among other things: Therefore, our ambition is that 2% should be given. of GDP for defence over a number of years. It is not only to be altruistic towards other people that we must also be like democrats. It is also in our own interest that we are engaged in different hotspots, because there we can help make a difference. Preventing conflicts is important, and it is also in its own interests, and it is an investment in the future to prevent conflicts and help address the fundamental reasons why people flee and immigrate. Indeed, we can prevent people coming here, and we are spending a lot of resources on asylum seekers, illegal immigrants and integration. After all, security policy and security are also about freedom and security. It is about our freedom and our sovereignty to decide for ourselves within our own borders. The security policy challenges in our neighbourhood have also increased and have changed dramatically in recent years, and we must keep a close eye on this. In Ukraine, Russia continues to resist the ability of the Ukrainian people to freely choose closer integration with the EU countries and NATO countries. In the area around the Baltic Sea, Russian aviation activity increased in 2014, but has stabilised in 2015. In response to Russia's aggressive behaviour in Ukraine, the EU and a number of other Western countries have continued sanctions against Russia. The question is that we should not impose even more sanctions on the Russians and Putin. Of course, we also need to pay attention to what is happening in the Arctic, but the greatest security threat is still coming from the Middle East and the surrounding region. It comes mainly from individuals, but also from brutal organisations that are spreading in the Middle East and Asia, but also in North Africa and into Africa. They are using terror against us, they are trying to limit our interests and our freedom, they are trying to destroy our values of freedom. That is the point of the statement, and it is important, but I also think it is important to emphasise that the spread of those brutal organisations, and not least the Islamic State, has something to do with the failure of us, the international community, and that the West in particular has lacked leadership in recent years. I believe that the country in which the Islamic State came into existence, namely Syria, and the conflict in Syria, have been allowed to continue. Syria is a good example of what happens when you remain silent. At some point, you're forced to do something. And we are helping to do something at the moment, but I do not think it is wholehearted. We cannot exterminate or eliminate the Islamic State and their brutality just from the air. We can only eliminate them and especially in Syria with international ground troops, otherwise in the next many years we can just keep throwing bombs. It is important that we also confront them on land. I believe that they must be eliminated, because they are not negotiable. They should not be part of any kind of negotiation at all, because their livelihood, their DNA, is forever to fight against the West and Western values. That is why they simply have to be eradicated, they are a plague in Syria and, by the way, also in Iraq. We also have cholera in Syria. There we have Assad, the main cause of the tragedy in Syria, where the situation is that, out of a population of 21 million, the 15 million have fled from their homes ^ 4-5 million abroad and 10 million internally displaced persons. I think it is a failure of dimensions that no more effort is being made to protect them. They're exposed to Assad's barrel bombs every single day. I think it is a failure that we have not got ourselves together to introduce humanitarian zones and no-fly zones, and I think it is a huge failure that one such as Putin has allowed into this whole conflict. He has no interest in ending the conflict. It gives Russia a comeback in the area, and then he becomes a great man himself. By resolving the conflict, he can be reduced to being a small man again. So it is first and foremost important to protect the civilian population, and then it is important to get rid of pestilence and cholera, Islamic State and Assad. And then we must help to give Syria back to the Syrians, to the freedom fighters who peacefully dominated the streets for the first 11 months. We've totally failed them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128142124	Thank you. There are a few comments. The first one's from sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128142129	I understand, sir. Naser Khader's approach to Syria, but if you look at the actions of his party, you can see that they themselves have helped create an incredible lot of illusions. And you will continue to do so if you say that international ground troops must be brought in. Not even sir. Naser Khader's own government will help bring in ground troops. There is no one other than the Kurds who will fight on the ground, and perhaps you could give them a pat on the shoulder, for example. to remove them from the terrorist lists. That's the least you could do. Or they could be helped to rebuild Kobane and help to equip themselves better in the defence struggle they are pursuing. I mean, there has to be some logic and some substance in things. Because I agree with the slogans, but when no one wants to, what then?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128142224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128142225	Well, you have to start with yourself, and I and my party have said on several occasions that you can only fight Islamic State by confronting them on land, especially in Syria. In Iraq, we are fortunate enough to have the Kurds on land, and they must be praised for making an enormous effort. But they cannot be used to fight the Islamic State elsewhere in Syria. There is a need for ground troops to combat the Islamic State, but also to control the areas that are being liberated, and so we do not have any such troops. Military experts also say you can't win a war from the air. You have to confront them on the ground. That is why we have said that we are prepared to accept the contribution of ground troops. But the best thing would be for the Muslim and Arab countries to take the lead. It is important that international troops do so. But we have made a political decision that we do not want to use ground troops.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128142326	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128142328	That is why I tried to mention it, because when it is not even possible for Mr. Naser Khader to convince a bourgeois government, perhaps those closest to the Conservative People's Party, that is a rather difficult task. I mean, isn't the only way to solve the problem in Syria politically? That is to say, all the efforts are being made for the negotiations to get under way and for a ceasefire to come and then the United Nations to come in, so that there may be a real, really long-term peace debate in which all parties in Syria will have to take part to take place. And I also believe that the Kurds in Syria are doing a great deal of work. They try to build up while resisting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128142411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128142412	Yes, but the Kurds in Syria are not all over Syria. They are in North-East Syria and they cannot be helped to combat the Islamic State and other terrorist organisations in other parts of Syria. Unfortunately, they are not there, but they are in Iraq. In relation to ground troops, I would say that we stand by it and we continue to repeat it. But whatever we and others say, what the United States says is crucial. And that is where I hope that one of the presidential candidates who talks about no-fly zones and humanitarian corridors will be the future US President, Hillary Clinton or Rubio. That would make a very, very big difference, because Obama's been checking out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128142501	The next question is Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128142505	Thank you. We're talking about Assad, and we also had a conversation about him earlier. If we now try to turn the time back to before the Arab Spring, I would like Mr. Naser Khader to explain because I know he's an expert in these areas... why Assad was so popular in the West... why all the Western leaders flocked around him and gave him all sorts of flap on his shoulder and made great features with him and his English-speaking wife in all sorts of magazines? Why did the West love Assad so much before the Arab Spring?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128142540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128142541	It was because the West let itself be fooled by the facade. As some of my colleagues said when we visited him: he does not look like a real dictator and he speaks English and smiles. But he's a dictator. He has helped kill really, very many Syrians and imprison people, and he controls hard-handedly a country he has taken over after his father. So he's a dictator, even though he doesn't look like the classic dictators. But the West has been good friends with all other dictators, not just Assad, ever since 2001. And you should have a bad taste in your mouth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128142627	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128142628	But it might also be that it was because he somehow left all the individual groups in Syria, whether religious or ethnic, to Christians, drunkards, etc. That could really be an explanation for the fact that the West thought that this secular dictator wasn't so bad. I am well aware of everything that then happened afterwards, with chemical weapons and barrel bombs and everything that is being said, but I am interested in that time before that. There I think he played a quite different role. I think so too, sir. Naser Khader agrees with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128142709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128142710	No. Well, it's a myth that dictators protect minorities. Most Christian persecutions in Egypt were under Mubarak. There are many Christians who fled Iraq under Saddam Hussein the Assyrians fled to Sweden. In 1970, when Assad joined power, there were 3.5 million Syrian Christians and 10,000 Jews living in Syria. When the Arab Spring began, it was down to 2.5 million Christians and 50 Jews. So it's a myth that they protect minorities. They only protect their own minorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128142747	The next question is Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128142752	I have always admired the courage of the rapporteur to say exactly what he feels, and I would actually like to ask him about the situation we have in the Middle East right now, where I am also aware that the rapporteur has a very nuanced knowledge of exactly what conflicts are going on. What kind of substitute wars are actually going on down there? I know that there are only two minutes left to answer that, but what is at stake in the rapporteur's view for interests? I am very concerned about the particular interests that make it very difficult to resolve conflicts. So, in the view of the rapporteur, what are the interests at stake in Syria, for example? Russia was mentioned before, but what are the other interests that the rapporteur sees?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128142831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128142833	It is true, as the author says, that this is a substitute war. After all, it is not they who have the least influence in Syria, and it is the Syrians, and especially those who actually dominated the streets for the first 11 months. It is other powers that currently have the greatest influence on what is happening in Syria. Now take the delegation to negotiate peace. After all, it is Saudi Arabia that sits and appoints who will be involved in the negotiations. After all, they have appointed the negotiating leader. We have the Iranians who are of enormous interest there, and the Turks, the Russians, the French, the neighbouring countries, so it is substitute war in the literal sense of the word, and as long as those substitutes can see an interest in continuing, they continue. That is why it is important and it could be perfect if those who control things from outside could sit around a table and trump a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128142940	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128142944	As far as I am concerned, it is essential that there is precisely a foundation on which to bomb. In other words, if we choose to bomb to secure and win peace, there must be some clear horizon where we can see that it will help. That is where we in the Alternative are very, very uncertain about what it is going to help when it is so mixed a pool of people sitting and negotiating. There I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it does not seem at the moment that it is pointless to bomb to win peace. The deployment of ground troops sounds awful to me, but I agree that it may be what it takes to use military force. But is it not a political solution that needs to be found? Does the rapporteur recognise that often, if we bomb, there are perhaps two new terrorists instead? That is often a statement we hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128143027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128143029	But it's connected. If you're going to have strength at the negotiating table, it's very important that you have strength on the battlefield. Those we would like to have influence, the moderates, are, of course, extremely weak at the moment on the battlefield. Those who have the greatest influence are the Islamist groups, it is Assad and others, so if we want the moderates to have something to say, it is important that they are also strengthened on the battlefield. But what concerns me most before we get a solution, because I do not think that this can happen within 5-10 years, is that we protect the 10 million who flee from place to place, and the best way to protect them is to introduce no-fly zones and humanitarian corridors, and that requires ground troops to protect the countryside.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128143117	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128143127	Thank you for the floor. My focus on security policy is naturally the role of the Arctic, Greenland and the Commonwealth in this region. For Greenland does not have its own defence, which means that there is a huge responsibility in relation to the defence of the Kingdom community in ensuring security throughout the kingdom community, including in Greenland. Russia is often referred to as the unknown factor in maintaining a peaceful Arctic, not least because of their offensive military efforts in relation to the Crimean Peninsula. However, as it also recently emerged at a DIIS conference headed "The Arctic Ahead Safe, Secure and Sustainable', it was agreed that Russia primarily conducts a traditional foreign policy and, although the Russian military presence and sovereignty enforcement are being strengthened, Russia's interests in the Arctic are as a starting point peaceful. We must be proactive, we must keep an eye on developments in the Arctic, including the role of Russia, but I agree with the common political line that has been taken to preserve a peaceful Arctic with a particular focus on providing security for the people of Greenland. This is in line with the intentions of the Stoltenberg report and the Ilulissat Declaration. Ambassador Peter Taksøe-Jensen recently told Politiken that some of the conclusions that we can expect in the upcoming report are about an increased focus on the kingdom community role in the Arctic. It is gratifying, and it is something that we in Inuit Ataqatigiits welcome very much. For Greenland is about 20 per cent. It is therefore natural that Greenland, in close cooperation with Denmark, should maintain a proactive attitude towards the development of the region and have a much more prominent role in everything relating to the Arctic, including in relation to the security policy aspects that we are discussing in this Chamber today. The defence analysis of the forward-looking tasks in the Arctic has again, one may be tempted to say, been postponed, and since they were launched in December 2013, many of us have been waiting for this report. The announcement is that the report has now been postponed until May 2016, i.e. 21⁄2 years after it has been launched. The analysis is very important in relation to the forthcoming defence conciliation negotiations, and I therefore look forward to the Minister, perhaps already today, being able to reveal when the analysis will be published. It is important that in terms of the defence's task solution in Greenland in relation to the Kingdom Community, we rethink the solutions that need to be found. The Greenlandic population should participate and contribute much more to the defence's task solution in Greenland. A unified Landsting, Inatsisartut, supports the establishment of a voluntary preparedness, which could be based on the experience of the Icelandic ICE-SAR, where the voluntary preparedness could stand for observation, measurement and rescue at sea and on land. We know that today, on average, there is one SAR incident every three days in Greenland, and many of these tasks could be solved using more professional volunteers than is the case today with random volunteers. Many in Greenland have a boat, and many have a snowmobile, and under severe Arctic conditions, as will be the case in all SAR incidents, where availability is difficult, voluntary preparedness could contribute positively. I am delighted, for example, that the snowmobile club Qamutit, which in English means the dog sled, has shown interest and would like to participate in a voluntary preparedness to complement police and Arctic commandos' tasks in relation to SAR preparedness. Safety in Greenland at sea, on land and in the air should be resolved by entering into alliances with neighbouring countries that have experience with comparable Arctic challenges and conditions. One should look at how to develop these agreements with neighbouring countries for the benefit of the Kingdom Community. It could, for example, be done. be under the auspices of the Arctic Council. The security policy statement refers to the nuclear agreement with Iran and the International Atomic Energy Agency, the IAEA's monitoring of uranium for peaceful and civilian purposes. I am surprised that the security policy statement does not mention the government's complex of agreements with the Greenland Government to export uranium. Inuit Ataqatigiit says clearly no to uranium, and that Greenland, or you could say the kingdom community, must be uranium-exporting. The agreement reached between the Naala Suisut and the Government has been reached behind closed doors and by excluding a divided population in Greenland. The previous government has repeatedly promised that a nationwide referendum on uranium will be held, and this has not been respected, despite the fact that we still have a Siumut-led government. And let us remember that the decision to extract uranium is based on a small majority. Soon we will have to embark on the defence conciliation negotiations for the coming years. From the side of Inuit Ataqatigiits, we want to give a clear message that we would like to participate in the defence reconciliation negotiations, because major aspects of this work also concern Greenland and also concern the Arctic. We have just confirmed our belief that although all parties will be convened, for example. For the time being, only the Danish parties here in the Folketing will be called. The North Atlantic mandates are not even called for conciliation. I know that it is a tradition, but that does not mean that it is the most correct way of doing things. And let me remind you that we are all members of parliament on an equal footing, even when you look at section 28 of the Constitution, and that is why I want to give a clear message that we are here and that we want to be active and that we want to make our influence felt. Inuit Ataqatigiit wants to participate in the forthcoming defence settlement negotiations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128143814	Mr President, first of all I should like to make a brief comment. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128143817	Well, I am very pleased that IA will engage and participate in defence reconciliation negotiations, just as I have never understood why it has not been involved in the financial law negotiations. I think it is quite as it should be, and I am very pleased about that and I hope that you will come along with it. Was it perhaps time, then, for military service to be introduced in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands? We have mentioned this on previous occasions. Now self-government has been achieved, and there is a great deal that could be contributed by allowing young Greenlandic men to be conscripted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128143855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128143857	Thank you very much for the question. We wanted to take part in both the financial law negotiations, but also in the various conciliation negotiations, and that is a line that we will continue to take. In relation to Greenland and the defence we have also put forward by the IA that we would like to see more Greenlanders in the defence. We also want the Arctic Command in Greenland to do even more of what has already been done, namely to tell us what it is that the defence is actually doing. Because I think it is also a way of ensuring that there are some more people who will be interested in the tasks that are involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128143933	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128143934	Yes, because I really believe that interest has fallen quite considerably. Well, I remember, when I myself was conscripted in the Navy, that there were very many Greenlanders on board various ships and indeed also very much on the marine cutters who were in Greenland. But it's kind of stopped. And I really think it should be a duty. In other words, when you have a kingdom community and you have Greenland and the Faroe Islands, it should also be a duty for young Greenlanders and young Faroese people to do military service. And I would like to know whether Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen does not think that is quite fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128144011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128144013	Thank you very much. I would like to say first of all that I believe that the very thing about having local knowledge of both nature and geography and knowledge of the language is a very great advantage compared to having Greenlanders in the defence, especially in Greenland and in the same way in the Faroe Islands. I think it is important to build it up along the way. I know that the defence has created an information campaign, which has actually been of great interest in Greenland among young people from Greenland, so I really think that you just have to build on the good tone that has been there. I mean, it's been a little year, it was there last time, so maybe there's a need to take it up again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128144048	Thank you to the IA rapporteur. Then it is Mr. Sjúrður Skaale from Javnaðarflokkurin, pronounced to the best of her ability.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128144056	Nice, classy. Thank you. When you are a one-man party, there are many things to be done, and I have been to the Foreign Ministry all the time, while this debate has been going on, so to avoid repeating something that others have said, I would just like to stick to a small corner: the section of the government statement which deals with sanctions against Russia. It says, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, the sanctions [have] caused the Russian economy to be in recession with an expected decrease in GDP in 2015 of between 3.5 and 4 per cent. Then the government says: "In this way, the EU has demonstrated that the common foreign and security policy toolbox has instruments that can be used in a tough security policy context. The sanctions have targeted key political actors and their interests, while Russian counter-sanctions have more affected the general Russian consumer. There is, of course, the fact that the kingdom is divided. The Faroe Islands have not qua no EU membership sanctioned Russia, and therefore Russia has not sanctioned the Faroe Islands in return. Some time ago it created a number of controversy both in this Chamber and in the press in Denmark. And as I understand it, it also led to wrinkled eyebrows in Washington and Brussels. For how could the Faroe Islands be such a capegoat, how could the Faroe Islands be such a hole into the Russian market when the EU was otherwise boycotted? It may be that the ministers meet this criticism afterwards too, but then I will just have to make a suggestion as to what can be answered. It does not harm Ukraine, and it does not harm the Ukrainian people that Russians eat Faroese fish; on the contrary, it does not harm the Ukrainian people. I come from a meeting on the Arctic and, under the auspices of the Arctic, one has a very firm and clear position that, although there is a conflict between Europe and the United States and Russia in the south, there must be as much cooperation as possible, immediately Russia in the north, in order to avoid a conflict spreading from Ukraine and northwards towards the Arctic. That is why no doors have been closed to Russia in the north; on the contrary, all doors have been kept open to Russia in the north to strengthen that cooperation. Because you see that the more you cooperate, the less is the possibility that a conflict will arise right now in the Arctic, which for everything in the world must not happen. If the Faroe Islands had done as Denmark and boycotted Russia and had been sanctioned in return, one would face a situation in Russia where food was lacking, where fish were simply missing. Russia, as it is now, is part of major international agreements with the European Union, with Iceland and with Norway, etc. on the management of fishery resources in the North Atlantic, and there is no doubt that if Russia were so squeezed that they did not get enough food, Russia would break out of those agreements and then we would have the conflict spread out to the Arctic. Therefore it is beneficial, therefore, it is peacekeeping that the Faroe Islands export as much to Russia as we do now. It looks violent when one can see that exports have perhaps 12-folded, while other countries are not given the opportunity to sell such goods to Russia, but if one sees it from an overall security policy perspective, it is peacekeeping and it does not harm Ukraine in any way. On the contrary, it benefits dialogue between the European Union and Russia. It is just a proposal for an answer that the Foreign Minister can give if he meets that criticism somewhere in the world. It is not forbidden not to be sanctioned, on the contrary, and it benefits the dialogue between Russia and Europe in the north that we do not close the door that is now open, the door that allows the Faroe Islands to export food to Russia. That's all I wanted to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128144540	Thank you to the rapporteur for Javnaðarflokkurin. Then it's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128144555	Thank you for a very wordful, yet peaceful debate. I'd like to start with a little inspired by Mr. René Gade of the Alternative to state that I actually consider myself to be Minister of Peace, and I do, because the whole vision of pursuing an active and, for that matter, proactive foreign policy is to make the world a more peaceful place to live, a place where we can stop conflicts if they are in progress, but best of all avoid conflicts before they start. I really think it would be nice to get a little more forward, because although the military part of what we are doing is both important and necessary, it is even more important that we look at where the risk of a conflict arises and that we get better at taking action and helping in advance. It is much easier to help a democratic transition in a country such as Mali or Burkina Faso than it is to rebuild after conflicts such as those in Syria and Libya. It is therefore very important that we try to think our foreign policy into a wider whole and not just tackle one corner around the military, however important and essential it may be. I would like to thank you for the many comments that have been made, and I would like to comment directly on some of the rapporteur's contributions in a moment, but I would just like to make a few general comments. There is something that I may wonder about not so many people have touched on, but perhaps it is because it has only become clearer and clearer after we finished writing the statement, and that is something that I think is actually the biggest foreign policy challenge of the 21st century, namely the issue of migration. It is not just migration in relation to refugees and conflicts, but migration because people move to find other living conditions and opportunities. When we look at the fact that in the next 35 years the countries of the Middle East and Africa will have populations that will double, i.e. from approx. 1.2 to 2.4 billion people, there will be more and more pressure, because they will find other places. And we can see it already now. We can see that EU Commissioner Frans Timmermans has said that over half of those who now cross the EU's external borders and come here do not come as refugees, but as migrants they do not come from conflict areas, and they do not come because they have been at war in that country, but they come because they want to have better economic opportunities. I believe that this will be a huge challenge to which we can only respond if we use the whole foreign policy toolbox. This means that it is both security policy, development policy, European policy and trade policy. I hope that we will return to that in the coming years. It is also surprising that both I and many others have overlooked that one of the things that will affect the long-term and forward-looking is probably the adoption of the new world goals, the SDG, Sustainable Development Goals, which will mean a lot to how we act in the world and which will also mean a lot to how we should act in the world. However, as some have said, the statement is more a look back than a look forward, and that is probably a reason why some of the major areas have been struck down. A large number of rapporteurs have addressed the fight against ISIL. I would like to say that for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for the government and for me there are five ways to fight ISIL. There is the military way; there is the question of stopping funding for them; there is the question of stopping the approach of foreign fighters; there is the question of documenting what atrocities they commit; and then there is the question of, so to speak, sharing their fire and the tale they have about themselves. On page 5 of the statement, there is a small fact box about some of the initiatives we have recently taken to use tools other than the military to stop ISIL from moving forward. I belong to those who believe that there is no political solution without military pressure and that there is no military solution without a political debate. That is why the two things are connected, and I look forward very much to seeing that tomorrow, at the peace talks, we will be able to get started for the first time sitting around a table with all those who are crucial to finding a peace solution and moving forward. There's a lot of rocks on the road. I'm sure we haven't seen the worst yet. There will be conflicts, trouble, people leaving the negotiations, people returning to the negotiations and disagreements on how to take the next step. But you have now come to where you sit and negotiate with each other. It has come to the point where the opposition in Syria itself has chosen who will represent them at the negotiating table. That is why I am very much looking forward to following the work of the support group around Syria, but also the UN envoy, Staffan de Mistura, to do so in the future. I agree with those who, like Mr. Christian Juhl has mentioned that the Kurds have been a great strength for us in relation to the struggle on the ground, but I would like to warn against simply merging Kurds into a group. So, there is a big difference between whether you are a representative of the Kurdish party HDP in the Turkish parliament or you are part of the PKK who has taken responsibility for having carried out terrorist acts. That is why we should not put the Kurdish people in a basket either. We must assess them, as it were, on the basis of who they are and what they are doing, and the Kurds have done a great deal. It's just something thoughtful to say that they're the only ones who've done anything on land. May I just remind you that it was the Iraqi security forces alone who recently freed Ramadi here, and thus the efforts that Denmark has made militarily we have helped to train and strengthen the Iraqi defence and military forces and the security forces have helped to create a difference on the ground. We are expanding our efforts. We have been approached by alliance partners, from France and from the United States, about whether Denmark has the opportunity to do more to combat extremism and terrorism in the world. And that is why the government is actively assessing what steps we can take, which fit in with what other countries can contribute and which fits in with the overall coalition. When we fight ISIL, it is not just a question of creating peace and security for Syrians and Iraqis; it is also a question of creating peace and security for ourselves and for other citizens of the Western world. If ISIL is given the freedom to exercise their reign of terror, it will not only be in the areas where they are now, because they also have the tentacles out to commit terror in other areas, from Beirut to the Sinai Peninsula, from Djakarta and unfortunately also to Paris, and we have experienced if not the ISIL regime, then perhaps ISIL-inspired terror in Copenhagen; it is a little difficult to say, since the terrorist was killed in connection with his desolation. But we have seen how ISIL has stretched out the terrorist tentacles, which is why it is so important that we also help fight them and push them back. It is true that, in combating ISIL, Russia is a somewhat dubious partner, and unfortunately it is in general. They have come back into the threat picture after having had a long period in which they have actually sought cooperation. But in recent years Russia has increasingly gone its own way, which means that we are experiencing a threat picture that was not there a few years ago. This also means that we must include them in our assessment of the situation in Denmark. This means, of course, that when they commit a thing like the abuse of Ukraine, the violation of Ukraine's borders, the annexation of Crimea, when they commit things like violating airspace and borders elsewhere in the world, yes, we must respond most strongly and most importantly in defence of Ukraine's right to rule their own country. I believe in the right of every country to choose its own future and its own alliance partners, and what Russia is currently doing is intimidation and hybrid warfare against neighbouring countries, and that is to push them to seek an alliance with Russia, despite the fact that citizens would rather have an alliance with Europe. I believe that we are doing ourselves and the citizens a huge service there by fighting that battle on all parameters to ensure that they themselves are free to choose where they want their alliances. If they choose Denmark and the West from, they must do so, but if they want to elect us, they must also have their free right to do so. As many rightly mentioned, there is an increasing interest in the Arctic, and this is due to improved transport opportunities, new opportunities for research and opportunities for raw materials extraction. I welcome the fact that we have succeeded in maintaining peaceful cooperation in the Arctic Council and among the Arctic coastal states. Agreement has been made on search and rescue, i.e. rescue operations, which have been made under the international maritime organisation a polar code for ships moving in the area, and there are among others. was also made an agreement about fishing up in the high lake. So, despite other conflicts, it has been possible to keep them out of the Arctic. We in the government will continue to make great efforts to keep on doing so. But that does not mean that there should not be a major military presence in the area, among other things. because the military presence is one of the things that also allows rescue operations, research operations and other activities to be carried out. That is why the Arctic region will be something we will be talking about a lot more in the coming period. When Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen mentions the question of uranium and asks why it is not mentioned in the 2015 statement, it is due to the fact that the agreement with the Greenland Government was concluded in 2016. It is a bilateral agreement that we have made on behalf of Denmark with Greenland's government and how Greenland chooses to make an openness or a dialogue about it with the Greenlandic people, I leave to discussion in Greenland. In Denmark, we have had the feeling that we have informed the Foreign Policy Name exactly as the Basic Law prescribes when making such agreements, and I have recently signed the agreement with Greenland itself on uranium extraction and exports. Then there was a somewhat interesting discussion about why we actually have foreign policy • whether it is something we have a duty to do or not. I do not think we have a duty to a particular foreign policy or a duty to do something specific in relation to development aid, but we do have an interest in doing so. We have an independent Danish interest in having an active foreign policy; we have an independent Danish interest in having a major contribution to development aid in the world; we have an independent Danish interest in being active in spreading Danish values all over the world. That is why we must be aware that in the globalised world we have today, the protection of Denmark's security interest starts far out in the world • far out in the world. The reason why the government has chosen to be active by sending Danish troops to the UN mission in Mali is that if that country collapses, there will be another country that can produce refugees and migrants up through Libya, across the Mediterranean and up through Europe. We have no interest in that at all. On the contrary, we have an interest in continuing to work to promote peace and stability, but also to promote democracy. I believe that wanting to live in a democratic country is not something just invented or reserved for citizens of the western part of the world. I believe that it is a human right that applies precisely and is an interest to all people. That is why I was pleased to see that Afghanistan has been through a number of elections, actually quite a lot, which have gradually improved and improved. Most recently, we have seen a change of power with the 2014 presidential elections, where one from the other part of the political side of Afghanistan succeeded peacefully in taking over government power. This year, in 2016, there are 23 elections in Africa. They are not all perfect, they are not yet elections in Uganda, it is absolutely not a perfect choice, but it is a sign that even in the part of the world where democracy may have had the most difficult historical experience, there are democratic processes going on. And there are several examples of countries in Africa having democratically replaced the rulers, either by a peaceful popular uprising or by free elections such as those in Africa. In Tunisia, which is the best example, unfortunately also almost the only example of the Arab Spring throwing off real democratic changes. I very much welcome the many people who have said positive things about our efforts in various areas. This concerns, among other things: on Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen's praise about the fight against piracy is about others' efforts in relation to development aid. I would like to say to Mrs Mette Bock, who called for a new foreign policy status, that it is in this way what the government is trying to set in motion with Peter Taksøe-Jensen at the forefront of an analysis. On the basis of that analysis, the government will decide on any foreign policy changes that may arise in the course of the process. When Mr. René Gade praises our humanitarian aid, I share the opinion, but I would like to extend it to say that we are praised just as much for our military assistance, where we are able to go in with Danish values, Danish competences in a way that makes us a very attractive partner, both in relation to the NATO track, in relation to the global alliance against ISIL and in relation to the UN peacekeeping forces, moreover also bilaterally, where, contrary to what one might think, because of some reports, the relationship between Denmark and Sweden is so good that the Minister of Defence recently signed a cooperation agreement with Sweden. So we work bilaterally, we work through NATO, we work in international coalitions, and we work in the UN track with the military. Finally, I would just like to say that I share the view of those who mention climate as part of the challenge. Martin Lidegaard and Mr. René Gade was two of the people who mentioned it. Ethiopia, which I visited yesterday, is in a situation where, due to changes in the climate, part of the country has not received the amount of water they expected, so there is an area with a population of between 10 and 15 million. people who are currently on the brink of a hunger disaster due to drought. It will create instability. If those people either begin to move into Ethiopia or the other way into Somalia, then it could mean something for the fragile stability that is in the area and therefore, as mentioned on page 7 of the statement, climate will be one of the things that we will be working on in relation to security policy in the coming years. Overall, from the outset, I did not expect us to agree on everything, but I have been confirmed that we agree on a great deal, and we also agree that Danish foreign policy is one of our main concerns in the Folketing, and I hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss it both now and at a later stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128150248	Thank you. Then it's first, sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128150251	Thank you very much. I have two questions for the Secretary of State. One is in addition to this how much development policy also means for Denmark's security policy and how much we get for it. After all, it is no secret that the government has dramatically reduced development aid to 0.7%, but that the current refugee situation also means that aid is being eaten from below, if I may say so, so that this year we will certainly land somewhere between 0.4 and 0.5%, which goes beyond the country's borders. Is there a basis for how little assistance the Minister thinks we can be familiar with sending across the border? That is one question. The second question is about Nord Stream 2, because I did not quite hear whether it is the Foreign Minister's view that it is the right timing for the European Union to say yes to that project. This is discussed a great deal, both in the Council of Ministers and in the Commission. I fully agree that we must, of course, observe the Convention on the Law of the Sea and that, but it does not, of course, free Denmark from having a political attitude towards the project.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128150355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128150357	We have not taken a position from the government on how any increase in future expenditure on refugees should affect a base, as it is called, on development aid. We therefore hope that it will be possible for us to manage and control the elements of the world that produce refugees and to strengthen the external borders of the European Union so that we do not find ourselves in the situation where appropriate. So I would rather deal with the second part of the question, namely Nord Stream 2. It is the case that it was discussed at the European Council meeting in December at the latest among the Heads of State or Government, how to deal with it here. I believe that this is something that will be discussed further, because in my optics a decision cannot be taken on the international conventions alone without comparing it with how it affects the European Union's energy policy and the diversity and security of supply that we want in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128150457	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128150458	Yeah, but let's just concentrate on the other part. Are I to understand that the Danish Government is then one of the countries in the Council, that is, when it is both the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister who argue in favour of what says that perhaps one should applaud the horse and send the signal that one might think it is not exactly the right timing for Nord Stream 2? It can be said that a large number of countries have said this very explicitly and that very few countries have actually said the opposite. It might be interesting to hear whether Denmark is now joining the choir of countries that say: let us just wait until we may have found a partnership with Russia again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128150539	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128150540	Now there is no problem in waiting to make the decision, since we have not had a question. So right now there is no decision on the Danish side. What we have chosen to do is to say that we believe that this is something that must also be assessed in relation to the EU's overall energy policy strategy in exactly the same way as was done when South Stream was assessed and that it was not compatible with the EU's energy policy strategy to open up South Stream. So I think we should make the same assessment, the same consideration. Of course, there are different views. Among other things: Germany is very much in favour of a new line, while other countries are very opposed. We believe that the discussion should be held in the Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128150622	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128150623	Thank you. I am quite clear that the Kurds are different, but at the moment it would be quite wrong to say that it is the Kurds who are engaged in terrorist activities in Turkey, where Erdogan has just decided that now he wants them exterminated and is running something that looks like state terrorism towards the Kurds. This should trigger quite serious appeals from Western Foreign Ministers and prime ministers. So I would like to say with regard to ISIL: does the Minister not agree that the economic blockade of ISIL is hollow as a sieve and that Turkey is helping to sell oil for ISIL for example? Israel and that it is a very, very important flank to get covered by so that they cannot afford to buy state-of-the-art weapons? We can almost go on forever if we do not shut them off and starve them financially.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128150724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128150726	It is the case that I myself, together with the EU Commissioner for Foreign Affairs, Federica Mogherini, have addressed Turkey very harshly and very harshly to the campaign currently being conducted in Turkey against the Kurds. So I agree that this is something that should be addressed. I would say that this is something that I have already complained about and that it is something that the European Union has complained about. In relation to ISIL and funding, I would like to refer to one of the initiatives I mentioned and listed on page 5, where, together with the Danish Public Prosecutor for Special Economic Crime, we have agreed to examine what we can do to stop the cash flows that have helped finance ISIL. It is also one of the things that has caused the alliance to change its tactics. In the past, where oil installations have not been bombarded, because they were the ones the country was to be rebuilt on the basis of, ISIL's method of making oil has recently been stopped by simply destroying the oil installations. This is a rather harsh way of doing it, which means that reconstruction will be even harder, but unfortunately it has been necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128150839	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128150840	I am pleased to hear that both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the European Union have said this to Turkey, because I think it is quite serious. It is also serious when they interfere and allow cash flows to flow. We need to have all parties involved in an effort to close the cash flows that exist. The last thing I would like to ask is that next week there will be a donor conference, among other things. Norway and England and, of course, the United Nations have asked for a doubling of contributions to the neighbourhood because the money is not available to be spent. When there is nothing where the refugees are, they will, of course, flee to other places. What is the government's position on this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128150919	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128150919-2	Our position is that Denmark is already among the countries in the world that have given allerallermost. Apart from Luxembourg, we are the EU country that per year. citizens have provided the most help in the neighbourhoods, and we are also ready to provide massive help in the neighbourhoods in 2016. But I think that when I look down on the list of countries, there are even large and somewhat larger economies than Denmark, which should deliver something more. We will deliver our share, and we will have to make that clear at the London conference, but I hope that other countries will come into the fight and contribute more than they have done so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128150957	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128150958	First of all, a happy conclusion that what is called increased naval activity in the Arctic from the Danish side is not necessarily a militarisation, but that you solve a lot of tasks. I think you already do that today. Try to ask Greenland's Self-Government and Greenland's municipalities how much benefit they actually have from the Navy. What I really want to ask is about democracy, which the Foreign Minister also mentions: is it not the case that there are peoples in this world who do not want democracy, who despise democracy and where any free choice would end up in Islamism?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128151039	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128151040	I don't know all the peoples of the world. I have spoken to many, but I have not spoken to representatives of all peoples, so I will not be able to say with any professional evidence that there is not a single people who do not want democracy. I just want to say that if you look around the world, there is nothing that says either geographically, ethnically, religiously or in terms of development that there are groups that cannot have democracy or that cannot deal with democracy. We have huge Muslim democracies. We have really great Hindu democracies. We have really great Christian democracies. We have democracies that have a high standard of living. We have democracies that have a low standard of living. We have democracies all over the world where power changes peacefully. I believe that, in the context of human development, it is very good that citizens are allowed to make their own decisions as to who should lead them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128151143	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128151144	What if the decision you make is against the interests of the West? That, in fact, was the point of my speech. What if, as in Egypt, they voted for Sharia and Islamism, after which the army again had to intervene and change that result? What if? Is it a happiness to have free elections in Egypt again? Will it be a great happiness, or will you end up with Islamism, as you did last time?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128151214	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128151216	By not having a free choice in a country, this does not mean that the forces behind it simply disappear. The fact that there were Islamists in Egypt did not disappear by the fact that there was a military coup the other way around. This has meant that the things that are happening cannot be processed and made responsible. I believe that Islamism must be fought in other ways than by denying Islamists the right to lead the countries where they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128151246	Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128151251	Thank you very much. It is very sympathetic that the Minister for Foreign Affairs also regards himself as Minister for Peace, also from an Arctic point of view, but I also know that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said in other contexts that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs is also seen as a Ministry for Growth, so I hope that the Minister himself will have a handle on what you are then Minister for. With regard to the North Atlantic mandates, I would like to say that we have just been to a meeting of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in relation to the Arctic Council, and one of the things that can sometimes be a challenge in international work is to ensure that one voice is spoken when behind the lines there may well be different views on things. So I would like to hear the Minister's reflections on how one could imagine forward-looking in the Arctic Council that there was an opportunity for Greenland and the Faroe Islands to have a more independent voice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128151340	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128151342	I think peace is the prerequisite for growth, so I think it is a good idea to be Minister for Peace and Growth, but apart from the many titles that can be exciting to give themselves, I am very fond of the title of Foreign Minister. In this area, we are working very closely with Greenland and the Faroe Islands to coordinate the votes in the Arctic Council. It is the case that the council's construction is built on states, and this means that the Danish kingdom speaks as one state and thus with one voice in the Arctic Council, and that means that the way we have done it so far is that the part of the kingdom for which it is most relevant to bid is the one that speaks. It is in this way that I see that we can make both one common voice that is coordinated in advance, but that there is also room for independent roles for the three parts of the kingdom.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128151437	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128151440	Thank you very much. In relation to uranium, as I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, there are some concerns, at least from parts of the Greenlandic population, about Greenland and indirectly also about the rich community becoming uranium-exporting. I would like to hear the Minister's reflection on what it means for the Kingdom community to go out and promote, if you want to use that word, in terms of being uranium-exporting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128151506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128151508	Exporting uranium is a very serious matter. It is something that can fall into the hands of wrong people who can use it for quite dangerous things. Therefore, it was necessary for us to have a very strong agreement between Denmark and Greenland, in relation to how to ensure control of the uranium taken out of the mines, from, as it were, the first spade stick to the final deposit afterwards. We have now done so, together with the IAEA and with the international rules that are in this area, and have had the regulatory framework put in place, which is why I am quite confident that we have found a good model.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128151544	Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128151547	In the alternative, we currently have a major challenge in showing that our progressive visions are actually also realistic. Humanism and realism are often set up as opposites of each other, which is why I am also very obsessed that there must be some steps or steps on the road before we reach our visions. And if we could leave this meeting with a Minister of Peace, then I would be sold on the spot, because even if it's just words, I really believe that words are helping to create reality. In addition to the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has now also been very good at listening and acknowledging some of the things that have been said along the way, I have also attached myself to another thing. And it is that it has been said that it is also in Denmark's great interest that Danish values become widespread in the world. I will listen to this as positively as possible, because I believe that the Minister really believes that we should sign up for all the good that we have. It is not because we have to go out and force people to think the same as us, but I would like to ask this very briefly: is there not something in the leadership that comes from the government when it expresses our values that might make the world look at Denmark in an inappropriate way?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128151701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128151702	Those of us who grew up in Grundtvig's homeland know that the word creates what it mentions, and that is why I think it is important that we both talk about our values and that the long-term strategy for our foreign policy is to make the world a more peaceful place. I feel that Denmark must participate with the values and responsibilities that we now have. I believe that we have the ability to go much further than our country's size or population. Because we come up with a social model that is attractive to many others. We come with a community building that many would like to copy and make into theirs and incorporate some of into their society. And by telling us what values lie behind the way our society is built up, we can actually, through our values and through our social model, influence other countries, despite the fact that they do not necessarily favour equality between men and women, homosexual rights, freedom of expression, etc. etc. Because when we tell them that those values are the basis for how far we have come, what they are beginning to listen with interest to is what we can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128151812	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128151813	After all, it is gratifying to hear here in today's debate that the values are generally so similar across many of the parties. The way there can then be different. I would like to give an example which we in the Alternative think is a problem in the foreign policy of Denmark, namely that people are allowed to push more than people themselves. Well, we push our values forward rather than letting people really want what we have here in Denmark. Perhaps I would like the Minister of Peace to try to accept that when we go out with our values, it is not something we put on as a etiquette, that is, something you have to be, but that you ask people to look at Denmark, so that they can see if it was something for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128151857	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128151858	I don't think you can push values down the throats of others. However, we can insist on continuing to talk about them so that people realise that the basis for our social development has come to where we are now are the values behind it. We have not reached what Denmark we know today, just because of some technocratic solution, or because that was the case, a random majority in the Folketing chose. We have just come here because, as Mr. René Gade says that we are all behind common, fundamental values. And when I talk to my Chinese colleague and others, I can see that they actually want to get to know our social model. And there we have to push, that it is based on values.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128151938	Thank you to the Secretary of State. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128151946	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday, 2 February 2016. The debate is open and we start with a explanatory statement from the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128152010	Thank you. When we in the Danish People's Party have put this question to the Minister, it comes down to the fact that, over the last few years, we, or at least I, have been very concerned about coastal protection and have also had the impression that it was a little uphill if we as landowners, who in fact have to pay for coastal protection, were to be allowed to do different things. My question therefore falls into two stages: what initiatives will the government take to help these landowners who need coastal protection, and whether, as a government, it will be possible for coastal protection other than sand-feeding, which is what is most used in Denmark, for example. severe coastal protection or, where appropriate, drain pipes. I know that the use of drain pipes has given rise to a tremendous debate... some people believe in what others do not believe in it. It seems to me that it is a matter of the fact that when landowners themselves pay and it does not bother others, one might allow it. At least that's one philosophy. At any rate, I am very much looking forward to hearing the Minister's answer to the question here, because it has been updated a great deal right now, in the sense that some homeowners have been ordered to tear down their property and are simply in a cat-ache, in that, at the same time, the property has been demolished, they also have to repay their mortgages, as there is no longer any guarantee of the loan they have and so on. etc. In any case, I would like to say personally that if I were to have a bill of half or a million or how much you owe in your summer house on Monday, I would probably have a little stomachache, I think. So I think this is an important discussion. In the Danish People's Party we are not included in the coastal protection law itself, because we said no to it on the basis of an idea that we believe that coastal protection should be a national matter, but nevertheless we are interested in finding out how we can help the citizens who get in trouble and are I would also like, before we start the negotiations themselves and in connection with the explanatory statement, to praise the Minister. I will, since I have been sitting with these things for so long, also have a very clear feeling that there has been a change. I can see that there has been a change of minister, and I should like to pay tribute to that, because it is also felt in the country, in other words that there has been a change of attitude. It has something to do with people often and often talking each other up in different corners, and I do not think that is necessarily a good thing for anyone, regardless of disagreement. On the contrary, we must try to help each other, because that is basically what we are here for. So I look forward to the debate and the negotiations we are having today and to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128152316	Thank you. Then it is the Minister for the Environment and Food for Response.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128152320	Thank you. I fully understand the concern, or perhaps even the stomachache, that some landowners may have when storms and floods damage the coasts and the values close to the coasts. That is why I am actually very pleased that the Danish People's Party has raised the debate today about what it is about to do. I would also like to welcome the praise that has been given for the better dialogue, and I would like to send it straight away to the official gallery down there and say that I am very pleased that it is being seen as a positive development and that there has been a better dialogue, and for this I am grateful to the official work. The aim of coastal protection is, according to the Coastal Protection Act, to protect people from flooding, as well as to protect property from flooding and degradation from the sea, fjords or other parts of the territorial sea. As a starting point, it is the landowner who is responsible for protecting his property from the sea, and it is therefore the landowner who is seeking permission for coastal protection, and it is the Coast Directorate who deals with specific applications for coastal protection and grants the authorisation. The Coastal Directorate is also following developments with new methods of coastal protection, including developing and testing new methods of coastal protection. So the coastal protection law does not prevent, for example, authorisation for so-called harsh coastal protection, such as: Slope protection. There is an entirely fresh example of this in the matter upstairs at Løkken, because a combined solution is being discussed, sloping protection with stones combined with sand-feeding, and a combined solution is also being discussed between the parties involved in Nørlev in North Jutland. These are just to mention some of the specific current examples, with which I also know that Mrs Pia Adelsteen has some sympathy. Which solution is best suited depends on the concrete assessment of the coastline that you want to protect. And although it is the responsibility of each landowner to protect his property, there are a number of considerations that need to be balanced when choosing which method is best. In the case of severe coastal protection, there is an important consideration for the neighbours, because hard coastal protection plants move the erosion of the coast to the neighbouring stretch, where the effect of currents and waves is then enhanced. And precisely the consideration of the neighbour's property is the reason why the Coast Directorate demands that sand-feeding should also be carried out, for example. in the examples of Løkken and Nørlev. The law itself lists a number of considerations, including economic and technical considerations, the response of the coastal landscape and the safeguarding of access to the coast. In particular, consideration of the extent to which the desired coastal protection facility affects neighbouring lines may have an impact on the method to be used by the landowner concerned. Finally, coastal protection methods have a different history around the country. Until the 1980s, harsh coastal protection was dominant, but as the consequences of severe coastal protection have become more and more clear in general, and not only in the country, the Directorate has increasingly turned to recommending sand-feeding as the method of coastal protection which should be applied when we want to protect the Danish coasts. Where tough coastal protection has already been established, the Directorate typically permits restoration and maintenance. In relation to the pressure equalisation pipes, the Coastal Directorate has assessed, on the basis of a controlled experiment, that the pipes do not have the sufficient effect to be suitable as a coastal protection method on erosion coasts. On the other hand, sand-feeding is an internationally recognised and well documented method, such as: used in Germany, the Netherlands, the United States and Australia. The beaches in Rio, Miami and on Herring coast protection are e.g. with sand-feeding. The West Coast is a so-called erosion coast, and the joint agreement between the state and the West Coast municipalities aims to stop or to achieve a controlled recovery of the coast in selected locations. The Danish state uses sand-feeding on the West Coast. The objective of stopping the recovery of the coast is achieved by sand being added to replace the sand that waves and currents remove. Thus the erosion occurs in the feeding sand and not in the underlying dunes. Sand-feeding is an effective method of coastal protection when the problem is erosion, since sand-feeding compensates for the loss of sand that will otherwise be. The tough coastal protection that exists on the West Coast can only be effectively maintained because sand is also fed. The reason why you also feed sand where there are hard plants with stones is that the hard plants • hawks, wavebreakers, cliff foot protection • hold on to the sand and thus prevent the natural transport of sand along the beach. There is therefore a deficit of sand where hard coastal protection facilities are built, and that is what is compensated for by the artificial supply of sand. The joint agreements between the State and the municipalities have worked as intended over the years, since the first agreement was concluded in 1981, there has been no breakthrough in the dunes and flooding of the hinterland. So even the recent violent storms, Bodil, Dagmar and Egon, have not caused breakthroughs of the dunes, and in many places it has actually managed to completely stop the retreat. At the end of the agreement period in 2018, the efforts will be evaluated and we will have a full overview of whether the coastal protection efforts have met the agreed objectives. There is much evidence that this is actually what will happen and that the objectives will be met. One of the themes at the open meeting on coastal protection in Aalborg in November was precisely how best to ensure effective and long-lasting protection of the Danish coasts. It was agreed from our panel of experts at the meeting, i.e. people from the University of Copenhagen and the Danish Hydrological Institute, that sand-feeding is the recognised international method of coastal protection. Let me say in general terms that what is really important when we talk about coastal protection is that we think in terms of overall solutions. Because if you don't, you might solve the problem in one place just to create a problem somewhere else. That is the challenge of tough coastal protection. But there are also other ways in which we have to think together. The landowners have great advantages in coming together on coastal protection projects, and so do the municipalities. In this way, we will create the best and the most coherent solutions, and the costs will be shared among many instead of some individual landowners. So it will be both better and cheaper when more landowners join forces to protect their properties over a longer stretch. A number of landowners at Jyllinge Nordmark in Roskilde Municipality have recently decided to join forces for a common solution to the repeated floods they have experienced. According to the Coastal Protection Act, municipalities have the possibility to plan, finance and carry out coastal protection for several properties. In fact, a number of municipalities are taking advantage of this. We see this in projects at Roskilde Fjord, but also on the North Zealand coast, where three municipalities have joined together on a large coherent project with a 57 km long coastline. The government is working in parallel on a coastal analysis which we expect will be completed during this six-month period. It must give us a comprehensive picture of where the risk of flooding and erosion and potential damage costs is greatest. And it has to give a picture of whether the municipalities have the right tools to ensure cost-effective coastal protection. The analysis can then provide a basis for a political discussion on how coastal protection efforts can be carried out more cost-effectively and where we need to focus. All coastal municipalities have been invited to contribute to the process, and 58 municipalities have contributed and thus an important input to the coastal analysis. When it is finished, I believe that we have a good basis for discussing politically what should happen next. Finally, just before Christmas, the Danish Parliament has adopted a bill amending the law on municipal property tax, so that properties affected by coastal degradation will be exempted from land tax. In addition, a government-set committee is working on the evaluation of storm tide and flood and stormfall schemes, and it is expected that this evaluation will be ready by the end of May. So there are a lot of things that we are going to look at together. I think it has been important to have a look at this area and see if we can help the citizens who live on the coast with the challenges they have to contend with. I believe that the open meeting we had on coastal protection in Aalborg in November was a very concrete step towards strengthening good dialogue between authorities and citizens. Following the meeting, the Coastal Directorate has just been more interested in the dialogue with the landowners meeting with several landowners' associations to provide information on how best to protect their properties against erosion, and has also stressed the importance of ensuring coast protection in good time. This is also where the Coastal Directorate can be aware of and inform us that we must be aware that something can happen here when we look into the future for many years to come. I look forward to the coastal analysis providing us with a well worked-out basis for a political discussion on how to achieve cost-effective coastal protection, how best to focus where the need is greatest, and thus how best to help those citizens who are challenged by the changes they are experiencing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128153436	Thank you, Minister. So it is now that the debate opens and the first to speak in the debate is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Pia Adelsteen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128153452	Thank you. Sometimes too long has passed since a debate on questions was held, because we simply cannot remember the procedure, but that is the way it is. Thank you to the Minister for the answer to the question. Although the Minister has done so, I would like to start by telling you a little about the coastal protection law that we have, which states that the aim is to protect people and property from flooding and degradation from the sea. The purpose is to balance certain considerations, in particular: the need for coastal protection. It says, among other things, that a building must be threatened within 25 years; and there are some economic considerations. As a starting point, it is the landowner's own responsibility, but it is also possible for the municipalities to help. On the west coast there is also a state that helps, you might say it is the Coast Directorate that helps, in the form of sand-feeding. There are some technical and environmental requirements for the quality of the coastal protection that is being made, and then there is something about the preservation of the landscape and restoration and the free development of nature, etc. etc. There's a lot of consideration you take when you make it. I would like to admit to the Minister so much that, of course, there is a difference in whether it is in one place or another, in terms of how to protect the coast, because we know that the sea is moving differently depending on whether it is in one place or another in Denmark. There are examples of the way in which the Coast Directorate recommends coast protection, namely by sand-feeding, works quite well, for example. On North Funen, I know. And there are examples of places where the opposite is the case. Normally we don't usually deal with cases, but at the same time we like to give these exact examples when we're dealing with these cases, so that we kind of have something to do with them. And there I will start from a very topical case up at Nørlev Strand in Nordjylland in Hjørring Municipality. Because when the Minister says that coastal protection should be done in good time, I can tell you that back in 2009 coastal protection was requested in the form of a slope protection at Nørlev Strand. There was a consultation answer from the municipality of Hjørring, which certainly did not support the creation of slope protection, and therefore back in 2011 a refusal was granted. I say this also because the Minister said in his speech that there was no breakthrough in the dunes. Because we then reach 2015 where it is actually so up at Nørlev Strand that there are seven houses that unfortunately fall into the sea and there is breakthrough of the dunes. It was actually 10-12 m of the dunes that disappeared at the time. This meant that the sand-feeding which had otherwise been assigned as a method by the Coastal Directorate simply had not had a proper effect, because then this would not have happened. That is also where I and we in the Danish People's Party think there is something in principle. When landowners are obliged to pay for a coast protection themselves, when landowners are obliged to ensure that their own values are secured and, moreover, want to pay for it, of course, and then apply for it, but are told that they must not do so in this way, because that is not what the authority will have because it decides that they should do it in another way, then I think that somewhere the authority assumes responsibility for the fact that the method that is then said to be used by these landowners also works. That is what I think there is in principle, i.e. that an authority rejects something, on the grounds that something else needs to be done. The landowners did, but it didn't work. And that's one of the reasons I've gone into this case a little bit. Because one thing is that you can think what you want, about pipes, about courtesies and dykes and piers, and I don't know all the words we can to put rocks out in one place or another in the sea. It's not that much that it's about.But there are some authorities who decide how people should be able to secure their values. If you are refused to do so in a certain way and the authorities point out a different way, I think the authorities also assume responsibility. Therefore, I also think that there is a problem, perhaps especially in Hjørring Municipality, which I would also like to blame a little here from the platform. Because even though the municipality gave a hearing answer several years ago, they have in fact, right next to them, made the same protection as they said no to the landowners having to do. Before my speaking time is over, there is far too much to talk about. I would just like to say on behalf of the Socialists, the Danish People's Party, the Left, Liberal Alliance, Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government has strengthened the dialogue between authorities and landowners in coastal protection cases. In order to provide landowners with sufficient opportunities to protect values against erosion and flooding, the Coastal Directorate is in close dialogue with citizens and landowners with a view to establishing the necessary coastal protection in time. The Coastal Directorate is also following developments with new methods of coastal protection, including developing and testing new methods of coastal protection. The government is currently working on an analysis of coastal protection efforts. The analysis shall give an overall picture of where the risk of erosion and flooding as well as the damage potential is greatest. The analysis shall form the basis for a political discussion on how coastal protection efforts can be implemented more cost-effectively and on how to focus where the need is greatest. It is also being considered whether the international experience gained on coastal protection in the coastal analysis could give rise to experiments on new methods of coastal protection. • V 19).
ParlaMint-DK_20160128154127	Thank you for that and it will be included in the further negotiations. Then it is the rapporteur of the Socialist Group, Mrs Maja Panduro.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128154137	Thank you. Not many of my fellow rapporteurs know this, but you will. I have been fortunate enough to marry into one of these proud Northern Jutland families, who better than so many others, but like many other Danes, know that living with the sea is something special. It's one of those families where one of the ancestors of many, many years ago chooses to move his farm out of the west coast and over to the east coast, right up there in Jutland, for as he said, he would rather lie there and seek his happiness where the sea gave every day than where the sea took every day. It's kind of like being a Dane. It is a condition as a Dane to live with the sea, and fortunately most of the time it is also a very great privilege and something that I think many of us really care about. The 7,300 km of coastline we have, I think, is something that the Danes use and love. I think that many people know this about the fact that when you get out there, it almost gives a suck in the soul, especially out there to the North Sea, where it's all showering and banging. But it is clear that, as has also been described by among others. The questioner also causes some awful pain in the stomach, because the sea is also a huge enemy, precisely when it comes to giving, and that is why this is an area in which so many people are concerned. We are, of course, also in the Social Democratic Party, which is why I would also like to thank the authors of the question for bringing about this debate that we can have today. There is, as has also been described, both the Minister and the questioner have mentioned, the paragraph of the law, which we fortunately across all parties except the Danish People's Party went together in the then Parliament back in 2006, where we just said that there are many considerations that need to be balanced and balanced here. Not only is it quite concrete that we should be careful not only to pass the problem on to our neighbour when we are shore-proof, but there is the balance between preserving our fantastic coastal landscape in Denmark, the living coasts, and at the same time the concern to protect people and protect the values, the man-made values that are there. That is why it was good that it was so broad a majority behind it at the time, among other things. balance these eight considerations, and it has also been the case that the former VK government has since been behind the coastal protection strategy we have created in 2011 and that in 2014 the Social Democratic Environment Minister Kirsten Brosbøl set in motion the coastal analysis that I would like to sign up for the current minister to follow through. Because it's really important that we get that analysis. This is important because we need to look at coastal protection throughout Denmark as a whole, it is important because that analysis must enable us to have the political discussion which I also think it is very important to have on a proper, objective and enlightened basis. After all, the analysis must not only look at methods, but at the financing of our coastal protection, in the way we regulate it, in the way we organise it, because there are also some historical things that are involved, both in terms of organisation and funding, and then, above all, it must give us the overview. Because we do not have just a few kilometres of coastline in Denmark. When we hear about this in the media, it is often certain places where there are very major problems we hear about, but I think that if we are going to do this wisely and put the strategy on how we will do it in the future, it is really important that we get a look at all the 7,300 km of coastline that we have in Denmark, so that we do this wisely and coherently, so that we get an overview of where it is, the risk of flooding and erosion is greatest, so that we can just do the right work at the right time and in the right place. If we are to be able to do so, we must have the overall overview, the thorough knowledge and the best expertise. Therefore, it was also that we launched the coastal analysis and we look forward to it coming. That is also the analysis mentioned in the proposal for adoption, and that is why we are behind it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128154656	Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128154659	I just have one brief question: will the Socialists be willing to look at these principles, including about what I said I thought was an authority responsibility? So this is the very thing about rejecting something as an authority and saying that something else needs to be done, but which, in my view, also means that you have a little responsibility for what the hell it is that happens afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128154725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128154727	I would say that, as you know, we are a very broad majority behind the division of responsibilities that exists now and that we also stated in the 2006 agreement. But it is not the case that we have said that it is then up to the landowner entirely alone, or that it is then up to the municipality entirely alone. Well, last year alone, in some of the joint agreements we made there, we have set up 90 million. kr. of the state to go in and support it. So I think we need to see exactly what I said as a whole. And when the coastal analysis is available with hopefully very thorough analyses, but also with recommendations all around, we will read it with great interest and do not have so many sacred cows in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128154821	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128154823	I take this as a positive sign that it is certainly something that can be discussed. When I ask, it is, of course, because I think it is quite important in relation to the fundamental approach. This isn't exceptional for Nørlev Strand, but now it's the example that's drawn out, because it might be the most grotesque case right at the moment. But it has been seen elsewhere that houses are falling into the water, even though the landowners have actually done as they have been told. When I take this up, of course, it also has something to do with the position of the Danish People's Party on the coast protection law, because we think it should be a national matter, precisely because landowners also have different economies. So there's very big difference there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128154859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128154901	I think it is true that there is a very big difference. And I think that if you are concerned about examining a model in which the state has a greater responsibility, you also have to look very carefully at what the economy would look like, but also to just put it bluntly: how we deal with the differences that may exist. For me, there is a fundamental difference between whether we are dealing with a landowner who has had his house there for 50 years, who was initially very deep in the country, or whether we are dealing with some who have recently bought a land and been aware of the risks that came with it. So if you want to go further along that path, I think there is really a lot of work to do in qualifying it. But let us talk about it when we also look at the analysis.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128154949	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur on the Left, Mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128155001	Thank you. It is extremely relevant to have coastal protection debated. With over 7,000 km of coastline in Denmark, coastal protection is a very important area. For many people, the protection of the coast is very important if, for example, it is. their home or cottage is located in an endangered area. That is why it is important that we ensure that the legislation takes the right considerations into account so that the citizens concerned have the best possible framework to protect their property from the forces of nature. It is perfectly natural and very understandable that citizens will take good care of their property and values. We here in the Folketing must set the framework and create the opportunities for it, and we must be aware of that responsibility to take seriously. In order to qualify, we need the coastal safety report with the analyses that will come later in the spring, and when it is available we need to find solutions. What works best? This can easily be imagined as different solutions in different places. And then I just want to say: what should be wrong with you, for example? Did all natural boulders in the right sizes use the right places to the right extent and composition, where it is now best? I think that is a real solution in a number of places. Elsewhere, they may be other solutions. As you know, Denmark is often challenged by the weather gods, which of course means that we have to make some thoughtful and reasonable choices to protect properties close to the coast. This is very much the case on the West Coast, where nature is particularly harsh, but also elsewhere in Denmark, for example. North Zealand, where citizens and homeowners experience problems in several places. As you know, it is the landowner's responsibility to protect his property. However, this does not mean that there is a completely free framework for choosing methods and scope. There are many considerations to consider. The rules on coastal protection are complex substances, and it is therefore gratifying that extensive work has been undertaken to shed light on and analyse coastal protection. This is done through the coastal analysis, which is expected to be completed during the first half of 2016. The analysis will provide an assessment and an overview of how coastal protection is best and cheapest and whether the municipalities have the right tools to meet the challenges. In addition to the coastal analysis, an evaluation of the joint agreements on coastal protection between the State and the municipalities will be carried out during 2018. The coastal analysis is a welcome tool in improving the framework for coastal protection. The analysis is very much needed, because we can see that there are many challenges in this area. We must be open to the various methods that exist to look after properties close to the coastline without harming nature. At the same time, we also need to use the analysis to assess how we can get as much coastal protection as possible for the money. All this requires knowledge so that we can make decisions on an enlightened basis. I therefore hope that the report will lead to an open and open debate on how to shape the future framework for coastal protection. The Left is concerned with making life easier for the Danes in all parts of the country. This also applies, of course, to the rules on coastal protection. The parties concerned must feel that the rules make sense and are sensible. It is no secret that there has been much discussion about whether this is the case with the existing rules, and we in the Left therefore look forward to reading the conclusions and recommendations of the report as a basis for negotiations with a view to some good solutions, I hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128155356	Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128155401	As with the Socialist rapporteur, of course, I would also like to ask the rapporteur of the Left whether what I mentioned here in my speech is that one has an authority, when one refuses something that we know is working well, it may well be that it affects other places, but we know that stones work and then say: but put on so much sand and then it does not work, does the rapporteur think that one has a responsibility as an authority to help the landowners who are then in trouble?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128155429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128155431	Well, I also think you can see some, let's call them, funny situations around. I think we should think about this carefully, so I would not really like to get into concrete, let us say, case-by-case proceedings. However, there is certainly good reason to pay tribute to the fact that we are having the debate now, so that we get more focus on things. So let us have a thorough discussion on this when we get the report. But I don't want to get stuck on things now. However, an authority's responsibility is an authority's responsibility. In order to make good use of it, there must, of course, be both width and fullness and bottom of it. You may sometimes have doubts as to whether this is the case, so let us have a further talk about it when we sit there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128155512	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128155513	So a slightly different question: if there are some landowners up in Furreby who would very much like to put pipes on the beach and pay it themselves, does the rapporteur think that it is a problem if they do not bother anyone else by the way, despite the fact that the Coast Directorate does not think they are working?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128155531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128155532	Well, I think it is fantastic that citizens themselves will also take the lead and try to provide solutions. There I think we are very much in agreement that a backstop should be that it should not affect nature. So we and I have an open-minded approach to these negotiations that you can get as wide a range as possible to choose the right solutions locally, which is why it is good that we get the report so that we can get a look at what that catalogue should look like. So I do not reject anything in advance, but lack the basis to say what kind of things we can put check marks on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128155605	Then it's mr. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128155608	Thank you. Sir. Erling Bonnesen mentioned that the Danish weather can be hard, and at the same time Mr. Erling Bonnesen also this with thoughtful solutions. How well thought out Mr. Erling Bonnesen that's spending 100 million. kr. a year pouring sand on the west coast of Jutland, which saw the weather we now have going back into the sea again? A single storm, and then 100 million. kr. Is it well thought out in the sea, or might it be thought out in alternative forms of coastal protection?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128155642	The rapporteur, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128155643	But such an example calls precisely for us to follow it up when we say that we must have as much coastal protection as possible for the money, because that certainly does not suggest that we get in such a situation when it flushes away immediately. So there's good reason to take care of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128155700	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128155702	There's a certain kindness, I can tell. Now we'll have to see if Mr. Erling Bonnesen can also convince his own minister of that. Sir. Erling Bonnesen also talked about the fact that nature must not be harmed, among other things. as a reflection on this, whether citizens can put pipes down at their own expense as long as it doesn't affect nature. Now, on a number of stretches of experiments on the west coast, pipes have been put down, and I can reassure Mr. Erling Bonnesen says that it hasn't really affected nature, because the Coast Directorate has actually tried to find these pipes, but they haven't succeeded yet because they're covered up so much by sand that you can't find them. Well, then, sir. Does he not agree that this is a good way of doing it and a good way of taking nature into account?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128155746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128155747	As I said before, nature should not be harmed, and I believe that everyone can agree on that, and then you must have an open and open-minded approach to using the methods that work best in each place. I think that should be the approach to it, so I have not ruled anything out in advance. And when we sit there and have the report, we can find out what specific tools we can put checkpoints on. So there must be openness in the approach to the negotiations that hopefully come before that long.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128155816	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we move on to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128155832	Thank you. The effects of the lack of global efforts to address climate change are becoming clearer and clearer. We see rising water levels in the oceans, and we see more violent weather. This creates floods everywhere in Denmark, and our coasts in particular are very vulnerable. So the rising water level and more frequent and violent weather put pressure on the Danish coasts and creates both floods and coastal erosion. The responsibility for coastal protection lies with many different actors today. The State is responsible for sections along the west coast and in some parts of the Danish inland waters, for example. on Lolland-Falster. For the rest of the coasts, the responsibility lies with the municipalities and the landowners, and the effort is financed on the basis of the so-called utility principle, i.e.. It is paid by those who benefit from coastal protection. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that there is a need to look at the way in which coastal protection is organised today and to assess whether it is optimal and whether it is reasonable. We believe that we should change a number of things so that we can give greater priority to efforts and take action exactly where it makes the best sense for society. In concrete terms, we believe that coordinated action should be taken on coastal management, through the establishment of a national coastal council in which states and municipalities are represented, and it will then be the task of this coastal council to plan and prioritise coastal protection in Denmark, including assessing where coastal protection should take place and where the areas should not be protected, but rather given back to nature and to the free dynamics of nature. Because we must also be honest and recognise that there will be areas in Denmark that will again and again be attacked by violent weather and by storm floods, and there are areas in Denmark where municipalities have allowed too close to the coast and where we have not taken into account the climate change in which the whole world stands and whose strength will only increase in the future. There will therefore be areas where the bill for rebuilding year after year will simply be too large and where we have to say that these areas must be given back to nature. What is just important here is that it is not placed with the individual landowners or individual landowners around Denmark, but that we also have the task of supporting investments in coastal protection in those areas where we assess from a national assessment that it should be maintained and that it should be coast-proofed, as well as free purchase of land where the state and municipalities consider it appropriate to close down, for example. cottage areas threatened with frequent flooding and converting them into nature rather than coastal protection. On behalf of the Enhedslisten, Alternativet og SF, I have to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Government is invited, following the analysis of coastal protection, to convene the parties of the Folketing to discuss the future organisation of coastal protection, including discussing the establishment of a national coastal council which, with the participation of state, municipalities, interest groups, experts and the tourism industry, can ensure overall planning of coastal protection, including identifying areas to be returned to natural areas or where access can be improved. A State Coastal Protection Fund, in cooperation with municipalities and pilot owners, can ensure a priority effort around the coasts. Taking into account the necessary synergies with e.g. nature and access, it is important that the free dynamics of coastal protection are also taken into account. Coastal protection should primarily be located where climate change threatens urban communities and major common technical facilities. Nature's free dynamics are important also in summer cottage areas. A possible coastal council and a coastal protection fund should not only take into account landowners, but should give high weight to our common values. • V 20).
ParlaMint-DK_20160128160307	The proposal will be included in the further negotiations. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128160312	So, I could at least hear that the rapporteur does not own a summer house and will have a bill in the form of a mortgage of 1 million. kr. Monday. You could hear that. For said with all due respect: it is possible that climate change is on the way, but some of the summer homes that have gone to the sea are not summer houses built out on the beach; those we are talking about now may be in the third row from there. So it can be said, without having had a coastal council, that at least someone has decided that this should go back to nature. I should just like to ask the rapporteur what I have asked the other rapporteurs about the principle of refusing, as an authority, a certain type of coastal protection in order to recommend someone else who does not work and whether, in the rapporteur's approach, responsibility for the administration is assumed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128160403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128160404	I would like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that coastal protection is a variety of things. After all, coastal protection is both about the summer cottages that are in danger of smoking in the waters of the North Sea, but it is also about summer cottage areas that are very close to the coast and that will again and again be hit by storms due to climate change. And exactly what I put forward in my rapporteur's speech was that we should ensure that there was a common national responsibility, in fact, what I also heard the rapporteur demand in his speech, that we should go in and give priority to, and not leave it to the individual pilot to fight for his own summer house, but take responsibility together and also take responsibility for the financing of it here together, so that it is not individualised by the individual who is unfortunate to have a summer house in the wrong place. So I think I am very much responding to exactly the points that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party says are important here. And, of course, we must ensure that we use the right methods to protect the coast. I think that is quite obvious.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128160507	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128160508	Should I then understand that Enhedslisten also thinks that if you want to hand something over to nature, you replace it, that is that it is a form of expropriation, where you say: Okay, we're making a strategy. We're going to give it back to nature, and it's some kind of expropriation, so we're gonna keep these unbiased landowners harmless?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128160529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128160530	There are certainly many different situations around Denmark, but yes, we believe that where the national coastal council considers that there is no protection here because there is a storm flood or what happens now, year after year, and in the long run this will be a huge expense, people will have to be moved and, of course, some form of compensation will have to be secured. There are also areas where it can be said that the municipalities have allowed construction too close to the coast. How the funding is to be worked together, we are open to discussion, and there we hope that the coastal analysis, which is soon to be completed, will make us all more aware of what this really looks like.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128160609	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128160616	After all, this is something very comprehensive and complex when we are talking about coastal protection, as we are talking about today, and something that we cannot really control either. Although I do not, like Mrs Maja Panduro, have a major family saga that I can tell about here from the platform, I think I can say that there are quite strong forces involved in this game, both from nature and also from some of the human emotions. That is probably why the issue has ended up in the Chamber today. But let me say straight away that I cannot stand here and take a stand on individual cases or judge individual methods, which are probably the whole reason for today's debate. However, I can say that we in the Liberal Alliance support the broad proposal for adoption that was put forward, which was previously read out by Mrs Pia Adelsteen. We are very much looking forward to reading the overall coastal analysis, with which I know the government will have to contend in the next six months. We in the Danish Parliament must create the overall framework and legislation for coastal protection, which we do not really have the opportunity to do on an enlightened basis at this stage, since we lack the great coastal analysis, which is then on the way. Only then can we hopefully get clear answers as to whether what we have done so far is right or whether something has to be done quite differently. And there are many considerations to be taken into account, among others. the conservation of economics and coastal landscapes, the free development of nature, etc. However, it is worth pointing out, as the Minister did in the past, what is really the purpose of coastal protection. In short, it is, after all, the prevention of flooding and the destruction of people and property. And yes, I said human degradation. Mrs Pia Adelsteen and several others have mentioned something about stomach pain earlier in the debate, and I would then like to go perhaps a little further and talk about the actual breakdown of people. But can man now be broken down by the sea? They may not be able to do so directly, but they may be able to do so by seeing their property demolished, and perhaps they may also be broken down by their fight against the system, which prevents them from protecting their own property to the best of their ability. Of course, the Liberal Alliance wants to safeguard our common coastlines and natural development here, but the purpose of the law is quite clear and, of course, the Liberal Alliance will keep the government up and ensure that landowners have sufficient opportunity to protect values against erosion and flooding, as is also stated in the text of the adoption that has been tabled and previously read out by Mrs Pia Adelsteen. I am convinced that the debate we have here today would never have been raised if, many years ago, the Coast Directorate had taken the task of informing and communicating with the citizens concerned more to heart and seen itself more as a service body for the citizens in general and, in particular, for the directly affected citizens along our coasts. From the outside, it seems as if for too many years there has been a somewhat self-governing, exclusive government in the Coastal Directorate with certain political undertones... a directorate that has also been unable to accept technical reports from several of the country's largest consulting engineering companies, recognized consulting engineering companies, even where it has been almost a religious dogma that nature should go its course and only compensated by sand-feeding. This seems unmanageable to me, and I am therefore pleased that the Minister and the government as such have already strengthened the dialogue between the authorities and the landowners in the pending coastal protection cases, which have also been mentioned earlier today. In addition, I would like to call on the Coastal Directorate to engage in a more constructive dialogue on the authorisation of self-funded landowner experiments with alternative methods and evaluation of the impact of these methods. Then I have also taken note of a proposal which the Minister mentioned a little earlier regarding exemption for land affected by coastal erosion on the ground. I think that sounds very interesting, and the Liberal Alliance can generally support the adoption text previously read by Mrs Pia Adelsteen and look forward to future political negotiations on the coast protection in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128161106	Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128161109	Thank you for your speech to the rapporteur. I am also pleased that the rapporteur specifies that, if the landowners themselves are willing to pay, there is no evidence that there should be anything to prevent some things from happening as long as it does not harm others, because I think that is also important to say. I would, of course, like to ask the rapporteur something, as I have asked the others, and if you do not think that you want to start from individual cases and do not want to deal with individual cases, then you have to deal with the principle. And the principle is probably somewhere else, as I see it, and as I have explained it several times, whether, when an authority says no to something and recommends something else, one assumes authority responsibility. I would very much like to hear the Liberal Alliance's position on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128161150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128161151	Thank you. Mrs Pia Adelsteen has seen absolutely right. As I said that I could not take a stand on individual cases and individual methods, it was an attempt to prevent a longer dialogue between us. With regard to responsibility, I would say that I really believe that, in this situation, the authority is responsible for continuing to have a dialogue and to constantly evaluate and take action in time, as has also been mentioned in the text of the adoption, and also to change in time in situations where this is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128161227	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128161228	Thank you. That was a bit vaguely worded, I think, because if we all start from a special situation, we actually started applying for the slope protection back in 2009. It has to be said that the landowners may have been ahead of the Coast Directorate, saying that they have to do something. But they won't. They do so on the basis of a consultation answer from the municipality of Hjørring, where the municipality of Hjørring makes a slope protection for their way, for it should not fall into the water so much as the summer houses. That is why I am asking a little bit about the principle and there I hope for a slightly clearer answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128161306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128161307	Then I did not quite manage to prevent the debate on individual cases. I think I will just say quite quietly once again that I think that as an authority we have a responsibility to continually follow up the authorisations that have now been granted, and then I think we should say that the political negotiations that we will reach at a later stage may be able to uncover whether something needs to be changed in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128161337	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Then it's the rapporteur for the alternative, sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128161350	The coasts are our wildest nature. These are the places in the country we all know, either from the time we were children or from the day-to-day use of them. The coasts are where we experience the wildness, and it is the strong desire of the alternative that we continue to experience the wildness in the vast majority of places along the Danish coasts. It is also on the coasts that we have the meeting between wild nature and ownership, and we are gathered here today to discuss the issue of coastal protection. On the one hand, we want to preserve the shared joy and experience, that is to have an unbroken coastline that is allowed to develop in the wildness of nature and, on the other hand, we want to have a number of both common facilities and private ownership in the vicinity of the coast and to take care of them. We know that coastal protection is something we have been working on in Denmark for centuries. It's not like it's news that the coast is moving. It has been a condition for many, many years that you know that the coast is moving and that in various ways you can try to keep it from life or otherwise model it. We also know that the climate change that we see more and more and that makes the weather get wilder, wetter and warmer eat faster in many parts of the country. That's why it's really important and I'm happy with this inquiry debate that we get the analysis that was started in 2014. It is very important that we continue to be wiser and open to finding new solutions for coastal protection. However, it is also important to keep in mind the broad approach, and that is why we from the Alternative do not agree with the first proposal for adoption, but instead have chosen the proposal for adoption made just now by Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur, which is, of course, about seeing with the broad aim of it. As is laid down in the law, there are these eight considerations that need to be worked on, and in them, as such, lies the broad aim, but we must stick to that. It is our view that we should make it even wider, and that is why we have in our proposal for adoption, No. V 20, proposed a coastal council and a coastal protection fund, i.e. sizes which, for more objective reasons, can assess where we want to look after something and where we want to see the free nature unfold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128161649	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128161653	The rapporteur says that the coasts should be allowed to develop, I think, with the wildness they have been so very picturesque. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether that means that the alternative does not necessarily mean that we have to feed sand where we are doing it today, because then we will not let nature go its way, we might say. I cannot help thinking that we are constantly talking about these climate changes and that these are the ones we need to take into account. Then I just have to point out that if you're going to have coastproof or sand feed, you're going to be running sand in trucks.So, I don't know how good the climate is with the truck driving... they're going about 3 km on the gallon, I guess. I'd just like to hear: is it all going to be the course of nature?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128161800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128161801	Of course, everything should not be allowed to go down in nature, and that is also why, in our proposal for adoption, we have a description of the fact that there are certain, especially of the common values, which we must place particular emphasis on protecting. Nor shall I be able to decide here whether sand-feeding is now the best technical solution, or whether another solution would be better, because it is entirely dependent on where we are, what the current conditions are, what the materials are on the beach there, and a large number of other conditions. So sand feeding can be good in some places and bad elsewhere I shouldn't be able to decide that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128161838	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128161839	I would now like to ask the rapporteur of the alternative, like the others, about the principle that when an authority like to say no to something and recommend something else, whether it has assumed authority responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128161854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128161855	I shall not be able to decide and comment on this from here, because I do not know the specific cases. I think that, in the context of a debate on compensation, we need to look at many different issues, such as: such things as how long you have lived in that house, what conditions there are around this place, i.e. purely geological, weather conditions, geology in the beach, etc. There are many things to do with this, and I cannot say one of these to you whether it is the responsibility of the municipality or not or the responsibility of other authorities in such a situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128161935	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128161945	Thank you. I should like to start by saying that I should like to welcome the Radical Left, which has endorsed the proposal for adoption. They have been affected first by illness and then by the advanced time in relation to expectations, but I just promised to pass on that greeting. In the Conservative People's Party, we value our untouched shores incredibly, and that is why we are also safeguarding the beach protection line that we have today. We are glad that it is not possible to build new dwellings in this line today. Our coasts are a gift that we have inherited from previous generations and which, in turn, we have at our disposal for loans from future generations. That is our political starting point. Today we are experiencing landowners, as several rapporteurs before me have so rightly said, who are fighting so hard for their property and who can see how their property is getting closer and closer to falling into the sea. That's gotta hurt a lot. Just as beautiful it must be to live in those properties... I can really imagine that... just as painfully hurt it must also make it possible to see them at risk of smoking in the sea. So I certainly understand the concern there is, and that, of course, is something that we as politicians must take very seriously. In the Conservative People's Party, we are basically in favour of the principle that it is the landowners who have the financial responsibility to protect their property from the sea, just as other landowners themselves finance the protection of their homes. That, as several others have also said, is the essence of the conciliation which is also in this area. We also think it is very sensible that the Coastal Directorate should decide on the basis of a wide range of parameters, including, of course, the technical and environmental quality of protection measures; the conservation and restoration of the coastal landscape is also an important factor for us, and also, of course, whether it maintains public access to the coast, which we also believe is worthwhile standing around. The call for the question debate specifically asks whether private landowners should be given the opportunity to use a type of protection other than sand feeding, including hard fuse or drain pipes. To that I would just like to say that it is not the case that we in the Conservative People's Party per year. But we believe that there must be evidence of the methods used. And when the Coastal Directorate sets up a method as an option on its list, it must also be because there is some confidence that the method has an effect, and that obviously requires that it is documented. It's important for me to say. So it is also important to say, as several others have also said, that there may have been a need for a change of mentality at the Coastal Directorate to go into a more • what can be said? From the caller to the question debate itself, it is seen out there that things have improved, and I think that is worth signing for that. We are very much looking forward to the coastal analysis that will take place in the first half of 2016, as promised by the Minister both today and in response to committee questions, and we expect that the analysis will give rise to further debate on the way in which coastal protection is regulated, funded and, as such, organised. And then we will be happy to continue this important debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128162337	Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128162340	That is just to correct: well, we are not talking at all the beach protection line here. I simply do not think so. This is a matter of coastal protection, and a matter of protecting... [Sound emission]. I have put a question in principle to the others, and I would also like to do so to the rapporteur here: do you assume responsibility as an authority if you say no to something which the owners themselves pay and which, moreover, you also have proof of, works because what we know is what we are doing and ask for something else, and that does not help? Is that the way to assume responsibility? I also have a slightly different question. For the rapporteur said and I am well aware that the rapporteur was referring to the pipe trials that have been carried out and that there are some who still want to put pipes on the beach that are not prepared from the conservative side to say yes to, because there has to be evidence of what we are doing. Does this mean that in future we will only have a coastal protection in Denmark which, what can be said, other countries have tried and found evidence to work and that we ourselves should not do anything new in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128162502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128162503	The rapporteur should not perceive my answer to it with drain pipes in the way it is interpreted here. Because we don't mind trying. We think that is a good thing. We must then also respect the answers that come out of the experiments that are being made. I don't mind us doing further tests on drain pipes and letting some private people test it out. It just has to happen under the very clear assumption that they are aware that it is an attempt and that the Coastal Directorate cannot vouch for it as a method that is qualified. As long as this happens on a completely enlightened basis, it is not something that we exclude at all. It's important for me to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128162546	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128162547	I am glad to hear that, because it certainly opens up some opportunities. Then I just need answers to my second question about the basic approach to a 'yes' or 'no' answer from the EU authority.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128162558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128162559	Yes, of course. I'm sorry I forgot that part. Authority responsibility is a difficult issue. The authorities have a responsibility to be up-to-date on their knowledge base, they have a responsibility to test new methods, so that the best documented methods are used all the time. However, the authority cannot always be given the responsibility to make correct decisions. Don't get me wrong. It can be difficult to predict what works in one place and what doesn't work in the other place. So, in this way, I think that there must be a limit to the responsibilities that can be attributed in that way. However, we would be happy to discuss this further, because this is not something that I am completely determined on either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128162635	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then it's the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go, sir. Kim Christiansen as a privateist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128162656	Thank you. If I simply could not resist the temptation to go up as a privateist, it is of course because I have been working on this area for many years because it was previously under the authority of the Committee on Transport. For mysterious reasons there were a few officials who probably over a cup of coffee agreed that this should be moved. And I think it happened so that in the gloom and darkness of the night it moved here when Magnus Heunicke became Minister of Transport. I do not remember whether it was at the seventh or eighth ministerial raffle under the previous government. Then it came over to the Minister for the Environment Kirsten Brosbøl, who didn't know anything about this. We had her in consultation, and then they did it and it has been in some form of impotence or to shoot something to the corner that was thus initiated a survey of the Danish coasts, 7,300 km. So I have to ask: Why did an analysis of our entire coastline have been initiated? You did that because you want to know something about the coasts. Can it then be interpreted in such a way that you have not known a thing about it in advance? Because then I have to ask, and now I can see that Per Sørensen from the Coast Directorate is sitting so nicely down there with the officials, but I guess I can't get him to come to the platform today and give me a reasonable answer... if the Coast Directorate has coast protected completely in the blind in the past. They must have done so, because all the rapporteurs and the Minister have referred to this study as the one that is simply going to solve the Gordian knot; it is going to solve all the problems relating to Danish coast protection. Because we can't get a proper answer. Wherever we ask, we can only get the answer that there will be an analysis, and we will have to wait for that. So I can only interpret it as if you've been walking around blind and spending several billions of dollars on coastal protection in the past. Perhaps I would like to invite the Minister for a tour of the real world. 'Cause I heard the minister say in his speech that the Chest Directorate thinks it came several times and the Chest Directorate says it. What does the Minister think? Would the Minister like to come out and see some of the nature out there, for example? where the Coast Directorate has been running around with a bulldozer to find some drain pipes. They never succeeded. And that says a little bit about how there might be some sand upstairs, and then you can try to think about that. The minister also mentioned that sand-feeding worked. It worked in Rio, Brazil, and there were other exotic places. Then I have to say that drain pipes also work. However, we do not need to go further than the Netherlands, because there has actually been an attempt between 2007 and 2011. And the report of that experiment also says that there had not been as much sand measured earlier as there was. So you don't want to go to Rio or anywhere else to confirm that something is working. The drain pipes are working. I would just like you to sit back and say that we are awaiting a report and, by the way, until then, we are leaning against a flawed report by two professors, one of whom has since drawn a little bit ashore. So I would like us to be a little more objective and a little more, what to say, accommodating when it comes to trying new ideas too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128163039	Thanks to the privateist. There is one brief comment and it is from Mrs Maja Panduro, the Socialist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128163044	I was really wondering if you should just let that outburst go. Well, those accusations that come against the Coast Directorate, I think I'll leave it to the Minister to answer. On the other hand, I assume she does, because I think it's pretty crazy that you should listen to this House. It is said that there is absolutely no need to carry out a coastal analysis, that it is really just a waste of power and that all sorts of people have probably just wandered around blind so far and so on. And then my question to the privateist is simply: does that mean that the privateist is opposed to the adoption text that we have so broadly agreed on in here and which the rapporteur from the privateist's own party read out? Because it is acting, among other things. about the coastal analysis which is on the way, and which I think we are many who think it is wise and right that we get.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128163148	Privatist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128163150	I would like to say two things. I'm not accusing the Coast Directorate of anything. I came up with a simple question: Have you been blinded before, since you now have to do a dike analysis of the Danish coasts? I don't think you do, so it's not a charge. It was a question. Because I am sure that the Coast Directorate is actually carrying out the studies and analyses of the Danish coast on a regular basis; that is what the Coast Directorate is for. So it wasn't a charge. It was just a question out in the blue about why the hell an expensive analysis has been initiated. Finally, in addition to being a privateist right now, I am also part of the Danish People's Party, and of course I am behind that proposal for adoption. However, it is an indication that there are people who want to work constructively on this. But I might perhaps have thought that it had been a little sharper in its wording, rather than just letting it all lead to a waiting analysis. Because the world can't stop until we have that analysis. We have to do something now. There are people who lose their property. If there is a big storm tonight, there may be three or four homeowners with a debt of 1 million. kr. to their credit union because their houses are out on 6 m water. We have to deal with that rather than just running it all over on some analyses.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128163302	Mrs. Maja Panduro.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128163304	It is perhaps also important that we do the right thing and that we do not just do something to do something. I am pleased that the privateist says that, despite his outbreak, he can support the analysis that is on the way, which should provide us with a common basis for decision-making, hopefully here in a factual and proper manner, to be able to discuss it and put forward a proper strategy for Denmark's coastal protection in the future. I just want to say that if you say that it was not an accusation against the Coast Directorate and that what you said before was not violent, then I think that the rapporteur should go back and read what he was saying. Because I actually didn't think it was okay with good employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128163346	Then it's the privateist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128163349	I don't really need to go back and read it. I heard what I said myself, and I could also look at Per Sørensen down there, that he took it with a smile. That is what happens when we debate. Then the tone can be a little rough, but it can also be cordial. I would just like to say that, of course, I respect the fact that an analysis has now been launched. I just didn't agree that it should be implemented. I've been working on this for nine years, and I have a lot of knowledge about coast protection. So has the Coast Directorate. I don't know what you need an analysis for unless it's to gain time. And I think it is in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128163420	Thank you. Then the list of speakers has been exhausted and I will give the floor to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128163430	I would like to start by thanking the authors of the motion for a resolution for the heartfelt tone which has been in the approach of Mrs Pia Adelsteen today. Mrs Pia Adelsteen started by thanking all that has happened recently in this area. Among other things: She stressed that the Coastal Directorate has promoted dialogue and made a strong effort, and I had the opportunity to pass the praise on to the office. I think this is worth highlighting in relation to the last honourable speaker who said that we should not sit back and just wait for a coastal analysis. This is in stark contrast to the authors of today's question debate, which has just praised all the initiatives that have been taken. This leads me to say, moreover, that what we need to land on the island was also mentioned by Mrs Pia Adelsteen, that there must be confidence in the authorities and that there must be good interaction and dialogue in order to find the right solutions. So thank you for the approach that I have also experienced from the vast majority of rapporteurs today, and I look forward to having the more concrete discussions later this year as well. Well, then, it's especially Mr. Knox. Kim Christiansen's speech, I have to comment on it. Because I think it makes perfect sense to have a coastal analysis done. And I would like to add my voice to the praise from Mrs Maja Panduro to the former Minister for the Environment, Kirsten Brosbøl, who started it. It is commendable, and that makes it possible for us now to look forward to having a good basis for discussion soon. 'Cause that's one of them. What I have seen from Mrs Pia Adelsteen is that what is international experience? What's with the knowledge? What are the methods? Can we not have a comprehensive overview of what we are doing in relation to coastal protection? It is worthwhile just to stop and get cutlery on what it looks like today in relation to erosion hazard, in relation to flooding. So I look very much forward to it being able to enrich us in terms of more knowledge and thus a better basis for decision-making for the political discussions we need to have. And I think it is very important that we recognise that we are dealing here with something that is dynamic, and that is why we need to stop sometimes and have a thorough analysis done. Then I would like to say that when the Coast Directorate has been running around looking for drain pipes in the sand, they have done so at the request of Mrs Pia Adelsteen, and because we would like to be absolutely sure what we now have of knowledge of how drain pipes have worked. That is why I have had a very good dialogue with Mrs Pia Adelsteen on how to follow up the drain pipes that have been placed either legally and illegally to find out the effect. And I just have to say that with what you have done in Denmark and with what you have done in the Netherlands, you agree that you cannot detect an effect of the drain pipes. They cannot stand alone, and that is also the result of the Dutch study, and I think that I have answered a great many times now. So the analysis does not solve all the problems, but it provides us with a good basis for a political discussion, and I should like to invite Parliament's parties, as Mrs Reumert Gjerd called for, to discuss the coastal analysis. I have to say, however, that with the proposal for adoption put forward by the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF, I think it will be a relatively short meeting that we will have. In other words, if you take the proposal for adoption, you can see that, among other things. states that coastal protection should primarily be located where climate change threatens urban communities and major common technical facilities. I just want to say that I totally disagree with that approach. What has affected today's debate has been the summer houses around and the individual citizen, and then I cannot agree with parties who think that this is primarily about the larger urban facilities, that is, urban communities and larger common technical facilities. I simply think that there is a lack of respect for the cottage owners and all those who, with Mrs Pia Adelsteen's expression, run around and have a stomach ache over the storms that can come and take their summer houses. Secondly, the three parties propose that we should have a national coastal council and, as I understood from Mrs Reumert Gjerding, it should actually be possible to move people from cottage areas if this so-called national coastal council believes that it is pointless to protect an area. I would just like to say that I will never support the fact that we were going to force people to move from some areas where, for example, they were going to move. has a cottage or whatever should be the case. Moreover, I do not believe that it should be a so-called national coastal council that should regulate regional challenges. On the contrary, I used, among other things. the opportunity to highlight the municipal cooperation, we see where we think in general solutions on some sections, like that which is the way forward. The third point I would like to make in relation to the fact that I believe it will be a short meeting is that of several rapporteurs, among others. Mrs Abildgaard has pointed out today that the starting point is that it is the landowners who are responsible for safeguarding their properties. And I would just like to emphasise that in the future too is the starting point for me in relation to the discussions we need to have. So, with these words, I thank you for today's debate and, as I said, I look forward to continuing the discussion, not least when we get the much-discussed coastal analysis.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128164032	Thank you, but the Minister is not quite off yet, because there are a number of brief comments, and the first one is from Mr Beazley. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128164041	Thank you. First of all, because I have promised that the SF could not be here today and, by the way, agree with the proposal for adoption No. W 20. But then I would like to hear something from the Minister, because I am a little disappointed that the Minister is so unhappy that we would like to make a coastal council and we would like to look at things a little more objectively, because it is all about the balance between what might be called our common values, the fact that we all have access to a coastline which would not have to be a large collection of technical elements, and then, of course, private property. I think that it can be very expensive in some places to keep sticking to the fact that the coast has to go here, cost what it will, because there are now three summer houses there; how expensive can end up being expensive for society. It may also end up ugly. Can the Minister not see that there may be some places where it may be necessary to simply write off this area and that it has actually been included in the price when you buy a summer house that you know it goes that way?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128164155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128164157	What I understand, sir. Christian Poll, is that such a national council should then come in and decide whether you should be allowed to shore-proof your holiday home or not, or whether you should move to another area, as Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding said, and I have to say that I am against that. I fully agree that the individual landowners today have some considerations in relation to the price of the summer house and the possibility of coast safety, etc., but I strongly reject the idea that it should be such a national council of good, well-meaning people who should have that right of decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128164232	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128164235	But today it is already the case that we have to look at these eight considerations, which I understand the law, and these are probably some of those considerations, in other words those of the general public in relation to private property. I would say that if it becomes the very direct basic owner's approach, it will again depend much on what the individual owner can actually do in relation to, for example. to push for its cause, where other landowners will be disadvantaged. If we take the objective approach, everyone will be able to be treated more closely on the basis of objective criteria, which could well be a mixture of the eight considerations we already have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128164314	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128164316	I agree that the eight criteria are good to take as a starting point. I am merely referring to the proposal for adoption, which Mr. Christian Poll has put forward with others where it among other things. states that coastal protection should primarily be located where climate change threatens urban communities and major common technical facilities. I just have to say that I disagree with that approach. I think there are many other considerations that need to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128164339	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128164343	Thank you. After all, the Minister should not let go completely, and I would actually like to ask a few questions about the principle which I have also asked everyone else about, but which of course I would also like to ask the Minister. Because I think there's something basic in this. When we have these questions, we can easily start from individual cases and so on, but we are the ones who are making legislation in here, and I think that we should also deal with some fundamental issues. And the principle for me, which I have also asked the others about, is whether it is the case that, as an authority, you assume responsibility when you refuse to provide protection and recommend another solution. It's important to me. There's another thing I just want to ask you briefly. In the Minister's initial answer to the question, the Minister said that no dunes had disappeared in Denmark. That's how I heard it. Now, of course, I can't hit it yet, but since the storm Egon in 2015 took those 10-12 meters up at Nørlev Strand, I suppose it was a statement, I assume, or something is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128164443	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128164444	Compared to the last one, I'm gonna have to check if I've missed anything compared to what might have happened. What is important for the authorities' recommendation and for where the authorities grant authorisation is that this should be done on the basis of the knowledge available and that there is evidence of the impact of what is possible. And the wordings I am giving now are particularly central to the question of whether new tests could be carried out on drain pipes. So there has to be a probability that it also has an effect, and there it is really, really important that the authorities have carefully examined the possibilities in it. And there are just some limitations in the light of the experiments that have already been carried out in both Denmark and the Netherlands. Another thing is that it is really important that the authorities think precisely what the effect has been in other places, so that you do not harm others with the recommendations that are being given.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128164556	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen apostates. The next question is Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128164602	Thank you very much. When I listen to the Minister's speech, I almost get the feeling that the Minister is not fully aware that we are in a climate change situation. This means that our coasts will increasingly be exposed to violent storms, hurricanes and storms, and in such a situation a society may be forced to give priority to some things. We have a storm flood scheme... must it be emptied again and again, year after year to rebuild the same summerhouse areas, or does the minister have a secret cash box somewhere that she would very much like to throw into that scheme so that it can keep pouring money into the same? The fact that priority has to be given is not something I have come up with to bother the Minister. It is simply because it costs money to secure; it costs money to rebuild after we have had these violent storms. So it is obvious and completely logical that, as a society, we must give priority to some things. That we should then do so in relation to some general social considerations, which are what the proposal for adoption says, should also be logical.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128164717	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128164718	I fully agree that we need to give priority to this, and I simply think that the Enhedslisten has succeeded in saying very clearly how priority is to be given to the proposal for adoption that has been distributed to all of us today. Urban communities are clearly given priority over open areas, for example. summer cottage areas and the open country. And I just find it interesting that, out of today's debate, we are getting such a clear message, and I would like to quote again from the proposal for adoption: • Chest protection must be placed primarily where climate change threatens urban society and major common technical facilities. It is a clear message to those who live in rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128164800	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128164801	'Cause it says the principal doesn't mean that it doesn't mean that it doesn't matter. And it is quite obvious that where there are a lot of people living there are a lot of people who will experience damage over and over again year after year. Of course, there is where we have to make sure if we are to stand and choose and prioritise. If it were up to me, we wouldn't have climate change. If it were up to me, we would not be in a situation where our shores are being attacked more and more as a result of harsher weather. I can assure the Minister of that. But we do. And what we are just doing in this situation is taking stock of the situation and trying to say that we have to make responsible priorities. Of course, we should not leave all summer houses to the weather, but we must give priority to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128164842	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128164844	Yes, and I think it is an irresponsible priority, as the Enhedslisten proposes. In other words, I do not think that mention is even made of the summer-house owners, but we think that we should primarily take account of urban communities. And there I am just saying that this is a priority that I totally disagree with, because here too I think we should think in all parts of Denmark. We must be very careful when discussing, on the basis of the coastal analysis, how we think we should deal with things in the future. There, in my approach, it will be absolutely crucial that we show respect for all parts of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128164920	Thank you. The last question is Mr. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128164924	Thank you. I didn't really get an answer. I asked the Minister, when I was in the chair, whether the Minister would like to look at these areas where pipes have been set down and see some of these houses which are not washed in the sea but which are today uninhabitable because there is so much sand that you cannot live in them. There, of course, the Minister could visit this area together with relevant rapporteurs, and that is, of course, primarily the environmental rapporteurs. Because it may be that there are some who say that these pipes are not working, but there are also all the scientists in the world who have said that the bumblebee cannot fly but it does.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128165000	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128165001	I'd be happy to go on a visual tour. However, this requires a long talk with my Secretary-General about calendar challenges, but I would like to do so. I am just wondering whether I will get new knowledge, because the good staff in the Coast Directorate have actually been on the road, and they have been on the turn especially following Mrs Pia Adelsteen's call, because I thought it was absolutely crucial in today's debate, but also in our further deliberations, to know whether there could be any evidence of the effect of the drain pipes. And I'm just gonna have to apologize to sir. Kim Christiansen and say that we just can't really find it, even in the attempt, where you were given the opportunity to decide who should follow the experiment and draw conclusions based on the experiment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128165053	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128165056	I like the expression: we can't find that. The Coast Directorate can't do that. I am not going to interfere in this war, and I am not going to accuse anyone, but at least some of us who have been dealing with this for years know that there is some kind of personal war in that. I just think that the project is basically too important for that, because we know that sanding flushes out again. I would like it to be considered when one has had an attempt and one's further basis for decision rests on a report with over 1,700 factual errors. Does the Minister not think that, when an attempt has been so misrepresented, it might be possible to say in a constructive way, together with the Coast Directorate, that without the involvement of some others, it could be an opportunity to say that let us give this one more chance?
ParlaMint-DK_20160128165148	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128165149	I would really like to help look at possible attempts. This is also evident from the proposal for adoption that has been sent around here to the Members of Parliament. I just want to do it within the framework of what I have at all on my own and which is legal for me in terms of helping to initiate experiments. It is absolutely crucial for me that I respect the rules in this area, in relation to the opportunities we have for trying. But no one more wanted it than I did. It should only be Mrs Pia Adelsteen who could have a greater desire than me to test methods and find out what we have in the toolbox for coastal protection. I will be very open to it there. But I have to say that I have to stay within the rules that apply in relation to what can be implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128165239	Thank you, Minister. And then the rapporteur for the questioners has asked to speak. Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128165246	Thank you. And it's not really to start another round up, it's just to finish, and then this is the way to do it. I would like to thank you for the debate. For me, it has been very, very important that we discuss it precisely and discuss what the problems are and also that there are therefore ordinary people of flesh and blood sitting out in our country who desperately need help from in here. There is. If I knew that on Monday there would be a bill from the credit union of 800,000 or 500,000 or 1 million, then I would have a lot of pain in my stomach, even with a parliamentary salary. I just want to say that. I wanted a lot of stomach pain. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply and so on. When the Minister says that it is at the request of you that you have been out digging for pipes from the Coast Directorate, I thought, well, yes, okay. But then I would say that the first time they were out digging for pipes it was several years ago that they were a trip to Søndervig, and I have a picture on my notice board of a backhoe, which is probably 2 m down, there is at least a man who is probably 1.80 m tall, and he we could bury him then they found a pipe. Some pipes were also removed from down there, but you could not find them all at all, so that is what I have referred to. But I am well aware that one has been out looking at the Jutland dikes, to which I would like to invite the Minister with a little reference to the Matador and in a different way, I would then hurry to say, because I think that Jørgen Varnæs did so in a slightly different way. But I think it might be really interesting to take the minister on a trip and show what I have experienced and who I know there are people who are passionate about and who people think is the right thing. However, thank you for the debate and thank you also for a constructive approach, which, of course, I hope will lead to us helping some people out in the Danish country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128165450	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will not take place until Tuesday, 2 February 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160128165504	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 2 February 2016, at 2 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out on the Danish Parliament's website, and I shall also refer to the weekly schedule set out on the Danish Parliament's website.
