ParlaMint-DK_20161006100049	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews and I will just ask for some quiet in the room: Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing (Inger Støjberg): Bill no. L 12 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Danish citizenship. Minister for Finance (Claus Hjort Frederiksen): Bill no. L 31 (Proposal for a law on grants to the Home Government of the Faroe Islands for 2016-2019), Bill No. L 32 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on civil servants and the Law on civil servants' pensions. Bill No. L 33 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Economic Council and the Environmental Economic Council. Minister for the Environment and Food (Esben Lunde Larsen): Bill no. L 34 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Water Planning and various other laws. Minister for Defence (Peter Christensen): Bill No. L 35 (Proposal for a law amending the Home Guard Act. Minister for Children, Education and Gender Equality (Ellen Trane Nørby): Bill no. L 36 (Proposal for a law amending the law on free schools and private primary schools, etc.) and law on post-schools and free vocational schools. Bill No. L 37 (Proposal for a Law amending the Daily Offers Act. Minister for Health and the Elderly (Sophi Løhde): Bill no. L 38 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Pharmacy and the Law on Medicinal Products). Martin Henriksen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 5 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of refugee rights in housing). Pernille Skipper (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B-6 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the right to protection against violence following a stay at a shelter). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). September 2016 issued: Report on supervisory activities during the parliamentary year 2015-16. 11). On 3 October 2016, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure presented: Report on the revision of the Question Time with the Prime Minister. 12). The reports will also appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.]
ParlaMint-DK_20161006100300	The debate is open. Here you go to Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006100320	On Saturday I sat like many other Danes, I think, and saw the Olsen gang, and along the way in the film I remembered the Prime Minister. As everyone here knows, the government chose to postpone most decisions from spring to the autumn we are now embarking on. The season is set in motion, the Prime Minister has a plan for a brilliant plan, one must understand. It is simply brilliant, everything is timed and organized. The Prime Minister just needs a tent, some pegs, and then a couple of benevolent gentlemen to help tighten the guys. There's a rich man in Switzerland, a safe in the Treasury, Dynamit Anders is ready. Nothing can go wrong, we have to understand. But it may still do, and as always due to it, one has to understand, a dog head, a clumpcutter, a rag, a pussy, a shining cloth, a suck and well yes a social democrat. It is true that we Social Democrats do not see the genius of the fact that worn-out Danes have to work even longer so that a few can get a top tax relief. On the other hand, we can see something else. We can see some challenges that need to be solved. Let's work together to do that. Firstly, the growth of the Danish economy is too low. The same is true of productivity. Secondly, we know that we are going to lack qualified Danish labour. Thirdly, we must be able to develop our welfare society, find a completely new way of organising work. Fourthly, there are too many non-western refugees and immigrants who are not in work. Fifthly, and I believe that we can all feel it, it is as if our country is becoming increasingly biased. The challenges are real, but we've tried it before, and we've done it before, that is. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposals. In our time, we must find a way to meet our challenges without allowing inequality to rise without leaving our own values. We have to trust Denmark, we have to trust each other. There is room for manoeuvre that must be used wisely for a targeted growth package, so that we create more private jobs, to prioritize our common welfare, to ensure upgrading, so that more people can become more skilled, and so that more people can do well in difficult global competition. Allow me to be a little direct: it is easy, and it is easy, to beat out with arms and laws top tax relief paid by the worn-out Danish employee. It is not difficult to be brave for the money of others or at the expense of the health of others. Six months more on the labour market means that 33,000 extra bags are to be lifted at the luggage porters outside Copenhagen Airport. We cannot ask them to work any more when the working environment is not there. And for what? A top tax relief that is not fair, a top tax relief that does not solve Denmark's challenges. No, this is where the water separates. I'm not standing on this platform promising gold and green forests. It is clear that when we do not want to cut the SU when we do not want to lower the transfer income when we do not want to cut the green cheque, then there is less money to do good with. However, when we do not give priority to tax cuts, there is room for manoeuvre to ensure new developments. In spite of differences, we must find a way together. If the government wants to, we will, of course. Because what characterises us Danes is that we get things done. We, as people, rarely have tricks for people with big arm movements and fine words, because our experience tells us that it is hardly going to happen. And what good will it do if it just stays with the words? When Denmark is best, it is when we manage to reconcile differences and make progress together. That is why we need reforms: a growth reform that creates better framework conditions for our private companies, an upgrading reform so that more people can train and train themselves so that they can meet the demands of the future and welfare reform. We want a fight with new public management. Our employees can do much more than they are allowed to show today. We need to focus more on results rather than just processes. And then we need to be able to trust each other. The single mother with major social problems must be able to trust that we have a strong social safety net in Denmark, that she will not be put on the street because of a cash aid ceiling. Danish and foreign investors must be able to trust us here in the Folketing. This requires us to stand by the energy conciliation we have already concluded. Just because a minister thinks that some coastal mills are ugly, neither the green conversion nor Denmark's credibility should be lost. We must rely on our social model, our cohesion. That is why there is a limit to how many new foreigners we can accept. And then we have to be able to trust each other in this Chamber. Once an agreement has been reached on a train fund, a train fund to bind Denmark as a whole, then it is not acceptable that we have a government that simply ignores a majority. Respect for the word, respect for the agreements and respect for each other will suit us. That is why my call to the Prime Minister and the government is clear. Let's get started on what Denmark needs. For there are no 90 seats in the Folketing that want to lower the top tax while raising the retirement age. It was not there in the last assembly of parliaments, it is not there in this assembly of parliaments, and I do not think there will be in the next assembly of parliaments either. But let us begin to solve the tasks of duty that are waiting and that have been waiting for a long time: a new property assessment system, a new funding for the green transition. Let us carry out a growth reform, an upgrading reform and a new way of managing our public sector, and let us show that we are capable of working together to bring Denmark forward. That is why my message is quite simple to the government: come to a broad 2025 agreement, among other things. With us. But it must be on an honest basis. In the Olsen Gang, Egon always lays out his plan, cash and unwrapped. He calls a spade a spade. With the PM, things have changed a little bit. Now it's a game of words. When you degrade the SU, it means it becomes more robust. When you save on core welfare, on older people, children and schools in municipalities, it becomes a priority contribution. When you raise your retirement age, you're brave. And now, most recently, we hear that the ceiling on cash benefits is really just an outstretched hand for the most vulnerable in our society. It's not okay. We in the Social Democratic Party have made a clear promise to the government and the Prime Minister. We want to help make broad agreements where it benefits the whole of Denmark, but at the same time we want to be a tough opponent when the policies that have taken place are misguided and divide Denmark. We stand by that promise. Then I would like to read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Alternative: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government's cash aid ceiling, 225-hour rule, etc. will increase poverty in Denmark and increase insecurity for ordinary employees. The Danish Parliament notes that Denmark needs a different direction. We must safeguard and strengthen our unique social model and not gradually hollow it down and dismantle it. We must develop our common welfare, strengthen the green transition, reduce inequality, ensure better help for the worn out, create a more inclusive labour market, create more jobs and internships and strengthen skills and education. Parliament calls for the government to pursue policies that ensure a socially fair safety net and sustainable development rather than training cuts and welfare savings for the citizens who already have the least. • V 1).
ParlaMint-DK_20161006101231	Thank you. There is a long series of speakers, and I expect it to be there throughout the day, so I must insist that we keep to the speaking time, as it will be a long debate so that we do not stand here around midnight and think that some people have not respected it and that it has therefore become so late. First, here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006101250	Thank you. Having heard the speech, I would like to say that there are former Social Democrats, whom I would more like to refer to as 'in quotation marks', 'fucking social democrats'. But enough about that was Olsen's gang terminology. What I would like to have an answer to today is: Does this extended hand which Mrs Mette Frederiksen would like to give the impression of coming here from the platform and which I think is very good? Does a housing tax system negotiate for itself? When I ask about this, it is because there have recently been slightly different reports, both from the government, but in fact also from the Social Democrats, about whether you see this overall plan and what is happening here in the autumn as a whole, or whether you are prepared to take out individual elements and negotiate them for yourself. The Danish People's Party is very interested in us having an autumn start with some agreements for the benefit of the Danes, and when the debate on housing taxation has now come out of the bush, a solution must be found. So we are very interested in having a debate on it alone and finding out whether there is a majority here in the Folketing that will provide security for the homeowners.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006101359	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006101401	At least we can get started. And I think it's important that we do it. I do not think we should be blind to the fact that, with what has now been put forward in the housing sector, we are risking that the housing market will come to a standstill, that the homeowners will be insecure. And that is why I think it is very important that we get away from discussing it in public rather quickly and getting it into the negotiating room. In our view, it is a bottom-up task to secure a new property assessment system, and we would very, very much like to negotiate it with the government and with the parties that, moreover, will take responsibility. Then we have always said, and I would like to repeat this, that of course things have to be seen in their entirety, because housing taxation is inextricably linked to what might happen in the tax field. But the time, the joy or grief. Let's finally get to work on this bound task.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006101452	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006101453	There are a lot of Danes out there at the screens who have seen the game that came yesterday and have had it unfolded a bit, but who have an insecurity about exactly what it is going to mean for them. And it is clear that once such a discussion has come out of the bush, a solution must be found very quickly, so that the Danes know what they have to do well with. It's also part of this business of creating security for the homeowners. And that is why I think that if today's debate can be used for a number of parties declaring themselves willing to go in and find a solution to it, regardless of what else might be of all kinds of disagreements, as Mrs Mette Frederiksen also mentioned in her rapporteur's speech, that debate would have been well spent.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006101538	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006101539	Well, I think that our starting point is not far apart, and that is why we can cut a lot of political rhetoric away and see that we have a property assessment system that does not work. Our task is, of course, broad across the middle to create a new property assessment system. Now the government has put their plan forward in this area. I think we all have good reason to set our calculators in motion ourselves and uncover what the government is actually proposing. However, in my view, it is a bottom-up task to start negotiations, and I hope and I will emphasise that as much as I can at all on a broad agreement in this area, and I hope for a broad agreement relatively quickly so that we can ensure that there is both calm and stability around the housing market. But it is clear that nothing can be seen independently of each other, and that is why we must see things in their entirety. But we should get started on this area right away.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006101627	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006101629	Thank you to Mrs Mette Frederiksen for her speech, that is to say, for what I must see both as an outstretched hand and as a self-acknowledgment in the Olsen gangly terminology of who it is always that sets its feet on things. After all, the Minister of Finance has calculated on the draft Trust in Denmark and there has been a lot of discussion about this last week. I understand that the Social Democrats consider it a great victory that the Ministry of Finance has now answered a question today. You're very happy about that. Can Mrs Mette Frederiksen confirm that this answer says that if this public growth is achieved at 0.6%? per year, there's exactly 0 kroner. to remove the PRS, to invest in the Train Fund DK and to invest in infrastructure at all until 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006101722	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006101723	Well the problem for the good Egon Olsen is that the plans always sound fantastic in the first few minutes at home in the kitchen at Yvonne, and as soon as the plans meet reality, the plans tend to fall apart. I think, and I would like to emphasise this, that it is a bit strange that the government chooses to say to the Folketing that we do not need a 2020 plan now, but we need a 2025 plan. That's what the government is asking Parliament to go in and negotiate. Then we present a negotiating proposal for a 2025 plan, and then the government chooses to count on our plan based on a balancing point that the government itself has abandoned in 2020. I think that's weird. That is why I have only to say that the calculation that has been made is based on a number of grounds which are not correct. We have, of course, already had that discussion with the country's Finance Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006101817	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006101819	Now that was not really what I was asking, and it may well be that my question was unnecessarily complicated. But can the Socialists confirm that there are exactly 0 kroner. to carry out the duties that Mrs Mette Frederiksen also mentions up to the year 2020? No matter that you've made a plan up to 2025, there's exactly 0 kr. Up to 2020, for both infrastructure; the PRS tax is 4 billion. kr.; for development aid, I have to understand; for cash aid ceiling; for integration; for all the other things that the Socialists do not really want to give an answer to. Where is that money to be found? Is it about tax increases or where to find them?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006101900	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006101901	After all, I will have to arrest the premise again for the question. For what we have been asked to negotiate by the government is a 2025 plan, and what we have put forward is a negotiating proposal extending over the years from today until we reach 2025. Then you can discuss what your priorities are. The government chooses to shift the balancing point of the Danish economy and deficit finance a tax reform. If we do not have a desire to make a tax reform or, for that matter, a deficit financing, then we will have access to a form of room for manoeuvre in economic policy other than that of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006101942	Then it's mr. Anders Samuelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006101945	Thank you. I understand that I need the role of Dynamitander. But if that is the case, then the President of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, must never have the role of Yvonne, who is constantly on the hunt for other people's money, is willing to work herself because she always has a confirmation, a wedding or a holiday she is going on, and the pressure is being put on poor Egon Olsen, who is constantly being stressed by that pressure, and therefore plans are falling apart. This brings me straight back to some of what we adopted last year. This also applies to the rhetoric that Mrs Mette Frederiksen wanted to teas the Prime Minister with. The Social Democratic Party can do that too. Ferrari reform, red wine reform. It must always have new stamps. Last year, when we reduced registration fees, the Social Democratic Party was very opposed. We lowered it, and my question is: will there be a resolution from the Social Democratic Party to raise the registration fee again?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006102049	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006102051	No, to the end. And then back to Yvonne. Yvonne is a great figure in the Olsen gang. One can say that unlike Dynamitanders, who play a slightly more peripheral role in the total Olsen gang picture, it is Yvonne who is there at the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006102112	It's nice to have a good mood, but... was Mrs. Mette Frederiksen finished? Good. Sir. Anders Samuelsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006102123	Now it's kind of like there's a fight between the President of the Danish Parliament and Mrs. Mette Frederiksen to be Yvonne. She gets up and tries to beat people up. Peace be with it. After all, it will not work without Dynamitanders, and he will have to tighten up and take it all the way to the finish line, and I promise that will happen. But the thing about shouting out and calling it Ferrari reform, which, after all, will not be brought back, is also somewhat similar to the time when, in 2011, a great settlement was reached and the Social Democracy would not name it. Nevertheless, you would not bring it back, you would not take the consequence. Is that not the hallmark of social democracy? They shout loudly, but nothing really happens afterwards, because they will not stand by their own rhetoric when it comes down to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006102212	Let me just say that the President is not part of the general political debate. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006102217	We must now be careful to accuse others of shouting in the course we have seen in recent months. What you are hearing today is a social democracy which says quite quietly that there are bound tasks; let us solve them. In addition, Denmark is challenged. Growth is too low, we know we are going to lack skilled labour, we have a welfare society that we can be proud of, but which also creaks in some places. Let's make sure there's room to develop it. We do not claim that there are easy solutions. There aren't a lot of golden promises either. However, if we give priority to money in this direction, we have the opportunity to bring about a positive development in our society. I still have to hear which of our unskilled employees is becoming more skilled by the fact that top tax relief is being granted elsewhere in this society. Because nobody does.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006102314	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006102316	Thank you. I'm wondering how I get into the story here, but I'm sure you'll find a figure for me during the day. I have to ask you something. Mrs Mette Frederiksen has talked a lot about security. So I have to ask you something. We agree that the government, the Danish People's Party and the rest of the right-wing cash aid reform are one of the most antisocial, we have seen for a very long time that it is going to send thousands of people into poverty, including 7,000 children with all the consequences it will have for the future of the children, and if there is anything we can agree on, it is that those children have never done anything wrong. Not only does it hit them; it also hits the safety of all those who are not yet unemployed, all those who may lose their jobs one day. It is their security in the future that is also at stake. I think we agree on that too. I would therefore like to know why we cannot agree to give all the employees, especially the low-paid, who are on the verge of all those who are affected by unemployment and disease, if the majority change, the promise that they will get that security back.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006102431	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006102433	I have to say that on a long stretch I share the analysis, however gloomy it may be. Clearly, the ceiling on cash benefits is adversely affected socially. We run the risk of having a lot of children. One of the things that succeeded us when we were in government, and which I think there is reason to dwell on and also be happy and proud of, was that we actually got the basket broken in terms of postponements, because people simply could not pay their rent. There is now a risk that it will turn around, that people who are not actually able to work will also be reduced to benefit, with the risk that they will not be able to pay their rent and provide for their families. Therefore, we look with the same seriousness at the cash benefits ceiling as Enhedslisten does. Now the current government has been here for over a year. It is true that a number of decisions have been taken which we are opposed to. Of course, we need to look at the overall inventory of disagreements between us and the government before we promise anything concrete in the individual areas. However, our basic position on the cash benefits ceiling is the same as that just explained by Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006102546	Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006102549	So far, so good. What puzzles me is that today, although we have only been in the process for a short time, we in the Socialist Group can be so concerned to talk about the security of homeowners and the security of the housing economy that we are willing to promise them many billions of dollars in the long run. That security is so important, but the security of those who are affected by unemployment or disease or who may be one day is obviously not quite as important. Now I know this is a polemical question, but what does Mrs Mette Frederiksen really think that people on cash benefits pay their rent? Where is the security of their housing economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006102636	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006102637	Indeed, it became equally polemical, and there is no reason for that, because if we look at history in this area, one of the first things we did when, the last time we formed a government, we entered the government offices was to abolish the low benefits at that time. So we have done that task in the past. That is why I am actually confident myself, including as far as the future is concerned. I think it is important to say that part of the challenge we have in the area of housing is, in other words, a bottom-up task, because the property assessment system we have has been overruled. A solution must be found. That is why, of course, funds must also be set aside for this. But I am of the clear conviction that we must, of course, keep an eye on whether or not we are creating a fairer development of this society. That is why we say no to parts of the government's 2025 plan and, moreover, ensure an economy to be able to achieve fairer development.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006102734	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006102737	In this way, I was very much in agreement with the description of the distance between the words used by the government and the reality revealed in some of the proposals put forward. I thought there was a place where Mrs Mette Frederiksen could have added, and it was in the field of education where savings of 8-10 billion are planned in the next few years. kr., some in high school, others in business academies, at professional colleges, at universities • massive billion savings on education. And then there's the whole plan, a place where you write a one-billion-dollar competence pool. I would just like to ask Mrs Mette Frederiksen: is it not also a piece of this that if, on the one hand, savings are massively planned, where it might be approaching a two-digit billion amount, and then on the other hand has something called a pool of competences of 1 billion? kr., so it's just gonna be some newspeak where there's no connection between what you say and what you're suggesting?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006102833	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006102835	Yes, I agree with that, but in any case the government has the problem that there is no majority in favour of the government's plan. After all, there is no majority in favour of the government's plan, and I do not see that majority appearing. There's not a majority in this Parliament, fortunately. There is so little disagreement between us and the Radical Left that we want to raise the pensionable age. Fortunately, there is a majority in the Folketing that says that this is not a proper way of financing the wishes you may have. That is why the government is left with the problem that the promises you are making are not certain that you can finance. However, the basic analysis that education is essential and that education should always be regarded as one of the most important investments we can make at all, I share with the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006102920	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006102922	There is no need to raise the retirement age to save on education. We do not really need the help of the Radical Left either, because the Social Democrats were available when they cut down in high schools in connection with the police settlement last year. But what is exciting is in the forward-looking area, and I would just like to ask: if the Social Democrats, who I know would like to make an upgrading reform, point to the skilled sector, can we count on it not to conceal the fact that we are adding billions of savings to higher education? Because I certainly cannot see in the proposal for negotiations that has come from the Socialists that the government's re-priority contribution to higher education is cancelled.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006102957	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006102958	Let us just take the story: first of all, I would say that we do not have 90 mandates. Mr. Morten Østergaard well. And then we entered into negotiations with the current government on a new police settlement. Of course the Social Democratic Party is there. No matter what we may have of opinions in all other areas, it is absolutely vital that we have a police force that has the resources to do with it. Then the government wanted to finance a new police settlement, a new multi-year agreement for the police, with a number of educational savings. We didn't agree with the government on that kind of thing. We then succeeded, because we stayed at the table and reached an agreement, in getting some of the savings in training pulled out of the final agreement, namely some of the savings in vocational training. And when we are particularly concerned about it, it is because we know that we are going to lack skilled labour and, moreover, because we in the Danish Parliament have not given sufficient priority to our vocational training for many years. So that was our focus, and I am actually glad that we actually had a result negotiated home in that particular area.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006103059	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006103101	Thank you. I am, in fact, very pleased that we are united in the red bloc on the rejection of the cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule, and that several of the red parties are opposed to raising the retirement age and providing top tax relief. In fact, I see that there are a great many things on which we agree, especially in the proposal for adoption on which the Red Block, except the Enhedslist, is now together, and where we also say that we want to combat inequality. I think that is a very important point of reference for a new red majority. Some of what increases inequality is an SU reform with cuts, an SU reform that will make students want approx. 15% less in their living conditions than they currently have 15%. less to pay rent, medicine, insurance and to be young people in their spare time. Can the Socialists in any way see themselves in a political agreement that cuts the SU or abolishes the sixth SU year, so that there is less room for re-election, or in an SU agreement that makes it even harder to be a young person in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006103210	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006103211	Well, I would like to say as a starting point that I think our students in Denmark are doing quite well. I'll tell you what. For generations, we have built a high-quality tax-financed education system. The SU is relatively high. It is good to be a young person in Denmark. In my view, there is no reason at all to try to draw another picture of it. But when we look at the proposal that has come from the government, about the SU, there are two things that worry us. It is, firstly, that more young people are almost directly asked to pay off their debts. We think that is a dull start to the life that should emerge afterwards. Secondly, it is of course whether, with the savings that the government is proposing, we are really going to restrict social mobility. Because there is a difference between starting a higher education in Denmark and having parents who can buy an apartment for you, whether there is a child savings and there is someone who helps with a computer, or if, like some of us, I was going to say, comes with a background where there is not and has not been the opportunities. What concerns us most when we talk about SU is our ability to become more capable as a society, but also to bring with us those who do not have so much educational experience with them. That is why we are opposed to the deterioration in the SU area.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006103325	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006103327	I am also convinced that young people are quite well off, but I know that young people already with the SU that is today have difficulty in affording rent and find it difficult to afford medicine and studybooks. So a cut of almost 15%. will mean that they will sit significantly tighter in it. There is a tradition of broad conciliation in the field of education, and I think this is very healthy for Denmark and for the education sector. There is, of course, evidence that there is a desire to end the education settlement. At any rate, I have been told that if we do not agree, it will have to be introduced after an election. How does the rapporteur view this? If it were to be the case that, after an election, an educational settlement is terminated, will the rapporteur fight for these cuts to be rolled back into a future conciliation?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006103407	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006103408	So, first of all, I think there is reason to welcome the SF's approach to this issue and also the support for our ability here in the Folketing to make broad agreements. That is why the roles are almost reversed, because now we are dealing with a party that is currently in government and which, as such, has been the bearer of many broad agreements over the years, but which almost looks at decisive conciliation, at least in the area of energy and SU. And that's not a good way to work. In other words, we must be able to work together across the political centre, and the reconciliations must stand so that we can rely on the words that are being spoken here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006103444	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006103448	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I have to start by saying that I was listening with a big smile on my face when the rapporteur of the Left asked Mrs Mette Frederiksen a question, because I actually heard it as a challenge to the premises of the Ministry of Finance's calculations. We are glad that we are not the only party that actually challenges those premises. There is something I would really like to ask, because these opening debates are about where we are as a society: where do we want to go? And the word climate does not appear many times. So I'm a little curious to hear a little bit about this financing of our way of confronting the climate crisis, where the PRS is in play by the government. Now we heard yesterday that putting it on the budget law may actually be against the EU's 'polluter pays' principle. So could Mrs Mette Frederiksen say a little more about where the Social Democracy is in this case about the PSO and the financing of our climate adjustment?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006103545	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006103546	Yeah, I'd like that. It's a basic task to find a solution in this field, and I guess you can say that time is ticking. After all, we were already in negotiations in the spring to find a solution, and we have not yet succeeded in doing so. What, on the other hand, has succeeded in the government is creating uncertainty about Denmark as an investor country, and that is worrying, because in my view it conceals an erroneous belief that no matter what we do here in the Folketing, the rest of the world will probably come to. It's not like that! That is why I say in my speech that when we have an energy reconciliation, the rest of the world and also domestic investors will have to be able to rely on our decisions. That is why, of course, we stand by the level of ambition we have already set ourselves. Then the wind turbine industry itself has put forward proposals to reduce the price, as it were, and I think that we should look at this very positively in the further negotiations. When it comes to funding, I would also like to say to answer the specific question: we are starting with the government from where we left each other in the spring. The government had put forward a plan which included a small increase in taxes in this field. It was government action. The last thing we heard in those negotiations was precisely that, and that is where we want to continue the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006103703	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006103706	Thank you. When we have stood and talked about the PSP, we are blaming the European Union, and when we have a good solution and it actually goes against the EU's legal principle that the polluter pays, I am thinking a little bit: what if we go back to the criticism of the EU's side of the PSP? In fact, the European Union just asked us to adjust it a little bit and do just as we did, for example. in Germany, so that we also get agreement there. So could the Social Democracy see itself in that we are just making the small adjustment that the European Union actually asked for, rather than going in and shaking the whole system of our funding for climate action?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006103744	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006103746	I believe that it is important to create a solution that addresses the core problem, and it is that it is ignored by the European Union in the way we have financed it so far. And then I would say that when you visit production companies around Denmark, you see that the PRS tax is at least a burden for a number of companies. We must also have that in mind, because we need to be able to produce in Denmark, and if you want to be a producing country, there are boilers that have to run and there are electricity that needs to be used. And that is why, as a starting point, we are in favour of finding a solution which, at the same time, relieves business in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006103825	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006103829	Thank you. Some time ago, the Social Democratic Party held a press conference and said that now there should be security for the homeowners and that the tax freeze would be extended until 2025. It was, of course, in isolation, half a joy, because I do not sense that there was a tax stop in that tax stop, but I can then clear that up now. Where does social democracy stand when it comes to ensuring security for homeowners? The real estate tax isn't the one that pushes people from house to home, but it's the reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006103909	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006103911	Our starting point is what it has been all along, namely that there is a bottom-up task with regard to the property assessment system. In addition, our desire is actually rather quiet, namely to find a solution that creates security in the residential area. I am sure that many specific questions are being asked today, but I would actually recommend that we do not go too far into the debate on housing taxation, because what we need now is to get to the negotiating table. The government has put forward a proposal, and I think everyone is counting on it. Now, as I heard, there was both an outstretched and outstretched hand.I think it's called an outstretched hand from the Danish People's Party to find a solution, and so is ours. In fact, I would like to make a fervent appeal for us to go to the negotiating table now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006103955	Here you go, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006103956	I think that is a good idea, that is to say we are going to the negotiating table and I hope we can see each other there. However, I assume that Mrs Mette Frederiksen agrees with me that the government proposal does not address the challenges from 2017 to 2020. It's not until 2021. So, we can expect a continued sharp increase in the basic debt from 2017 to 2020, many thousands of kroner for very many ordinary people, pensioners living in their own homes. Would the rapporteur agree with me that the increases we see in the ground debt in the coming years are a major challenge for people in their own homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006104044	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006104045	Yes, it may well be, the rapporteur is right. I also believe that the rapporteur's examination of that part of the government's plan is technically correct. It just does not change what is my basic answer and, as I would also call on other party leaders to say today, that we need to get to the negotiating table now. And there are limits to the length of time and I think that is quite frankly one can have a discussion about the housing tax to fly between us. So I strongly appeal from my side for us to go to the negotiating table and find a solution across the political centre that can stand in the years ahead. This is of great importance to the individual family's economy, but it also has a major impact on the overall economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006104125	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006104130	Thanks for the speech. That's funny. But it is the case that the Social Democrats' President wants to be Prime Minister, and if there is to be a policy in which the Social Democrats' President can become Prime Minister, then there must also be a policy of foreigners, which must be conducted by some parties following a parliamentary election. My question to Mrs Mette Frederiksen is this: will the immigration policy to be pursued after a possible parliamentary election, in which Mrs Mette Frederiksen has become Prime Minister, be brought together with the four parties which seem to be the parliamentary basis and which all of them want a lenient immigration policy, or will the immigration policy be conducted together with other parties in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006104229	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006104230	The answer is as simple as the question is. Foreign policy must be based on consensus across the political spectrum, and it must be supported by a majority of the Danes. And it is my clear impression, it is my clear feeling, that the large part of the Danish population supports the immigration policy being pursued today. That is why it is and will be our starting point. After all, I think that the overall immigration policy today has some shortcomings, and this is particularly about the neighbourhoods. We have tightened up asylum policy in Denmark, and this has also been done in all other European countries. We have had to do so. We have done this across the political centre, and I think that is wise and right. But we are still in a serious refugee crisis, and the whole of Europe, too, will have to deal with how to ensure that fewer people are sent on the run and how to ensure a more stable development, among other things. in the Middle East. In my view, however, immigration policy must be based on consensus across the political spectrum, and it must have broad support in the Danish population. I believe that the foreign policy pursued today largely has that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006104332	Thank you. Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006104333	Thank you for your answer. I think that is a good thing. If we are to drip a little bit of wormwood into the cup, there is, of course, the fact that the chairman of the Radicals, Mr President. Morten Østergaard, says that it will not be the foreign policy that will be pursued if the Radicals have influence. And I guess you have to assume that if they are to point to Mrs Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister. If we look back in history, we can see that it happened in the black tower that, although it was said that a comma was not changed in the S-SF bill on immigration policy, the Radicals changed quite a lot, so that we got 46 relaxations under the previous government, where Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt was Prime Minister. Will it be the same again, or can we be sure that it will not be so?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006104427	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006104428	Are we not in the extremely happy situation that block policy is about to die, that we can soon bury it and say goodbye to it? Because it doesn't suit us. The Danish People's Party is an excellent example of the fact that you cannot conduct the policy you want with the current Prime Minister. Because we do not agree with the 2025 plan that has been put forward. There you have to seek cooperation with others in this case, among others. Social democracy across the political centre. I have to understand that the Radical Left, almost as the only party, almost wholeheartedly supports the government's 2025 plan. This is something that must be dealt with under the auspices of the current Prime Minister. I think it is a good thing that block policy is dying. I am not a block politician, social democracy is not a block party, we want broad cooperation. Then there are areas where we will be able to cooperate more with other parties than, for example, with the Danish People's Party. Now the alternative mentions the whole green transition. In itself, however, the fact that we can begin to see a greater interest in and a greater desire to cooperate across the political centre suits us all in my view.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006104529	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006104532	In order to stay a little in the Olsen gang terminology, to which Mrs Mette Frederiksen herself drew attention, it is true, as Mrs Mette Frederiksen said, that we in the Left and the Government are up against the mark in both sneaky amateurs and pickjacks and, indeed, social democrats. But we are not going to let that happen, because we actually think that it is a brilliant plan that has been put forward, and indeed also a plan where, like Egon Olsen, you can see the details and see what tools we choose to take out of the toolbox in order to break down the challenges ahead of us in order to achieve the goal that we set ourselves. This is a little contrary to what Mrs Mette Frederiksen's plan is about. It's a lot more, you might say, unconcrete. So let me try to ask about it. Sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen asked one of the elements here a moment ago, and I would like to ask another question: can we get an answer today on how to honour the promise to increase foreign aid, for example? Now we were given an answer to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist and it was a good idea to raise taxes in order to finance the PRS tax. Do you also want to raise taxes in order to honour your promise of foreign aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006104637	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006104638	Now Mr. Jacob Jensen, of course, that we are both up against social democrats and then some sneaky amateurs, and I think we should ask Mr. Jacob Jensen to tell us who the sneaky amateurs are, because I know who the Social Democrats are. Can I not say from the point of view of the PRS that it is the government that has put forward a proposal for a new financing of the PSO that is based on a tax increase. After all, it is the government that has proposed it. And what we're saying is, and it was actually already in the spring that we want to help find a solution. We will, both in terms of the property assessment system and the PRS. We regard it as a bottom-up task, and no matter what the electoral room is, and I don't know what, in the blue block, this Parliament must be able to solve the tasks that lie ahead of us. And what we are now saying is that the government has put forward a plan for financing the PSO; we were in the negotiating room; it went very well, as it were; that is where we take our starting point. In other words, we still have to fill some of the roles, you might say, and at least there is always someone who is incredibly fond of the government's plan, and that may well be the rapporteur of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006104749	Here you go, sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006104752	I can confirm that I am very happy because it is just a brilliant plan, said in all modesty. But back to my question. So, the PRS tax must then be financed by an increase in taxes. What about development aid? There, too, we have heard a promise. And we stayed in the Left Scout for it when we adjusted the development aid down... that one had to set up again, we have to understand. How is this to be financed? Because I do not understand it as being part of the so-called 2025 plan put forward by the Socialists. What is it like with regard to the integration service? After all, it is also wanted to remove it again and increase the benefits for refugees who come to this country. How is this to be financed? For me, it is not part of the 2025 plan that has been put forward either. What about the cash-aid ceiling? I must also understand that must be rolled back again. It also costs money. How is this to be financed? For me, it is not part of the 2025 plan that has been put forward either. So how are these things to be financed, apart from the fact that you want to raise taxes, you have to understand?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006104843	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006104845	So we're gonna have to review the story... I think I just did it. It is the government that has proposed to raise the tax to finance the PRS. It is a government initiative with which the negotiations began in the spring. It is of course pointless for the rapporteur of the Left to say that some others have come up with that. We even have a one-party government. Well, it's the Left that has proposed raising the tax to fund the PRS. Then the negotiations did not succeed in the spring. We thought that was a shame. There is a continuing commitment from some parties, and one might also be pleased about this, to constantly make agreements with this government, because it may be a little difficult in some other places. There is a continuing commitment from us to find a solution in relation to the PSP. As far as the other things are concerned, sir. Jacob Jensen mentions, the answer is the same as it is to Enhedslisten, namely that there can be many ideas about things you want to do differently, but we do not issue any checks without being sure that there is coverage for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006104937	Thank you. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006104940	They say jealousy is an ugly thing. And I understand that Mrs Mette Frederiksen is jealous of the government and the Liberal Alliance because we have plans for Denmark. The Social Democrats don't have a plan, so you make fun of those who have one. And I really think that is a little too bad, because we need growth. We're in a growth crisis. And when we talk about growth, I would like to ask Mrs Mette Frederiksen whether the Social Democrats recognise that there is no proposal like crown by crown creating as much growth as lowering the top tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006105023	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006105025	I'm actually surprised that Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll is in such a bad mood today. There's no reason for that. I don't think there's any reason for that at all. On the question of growth: we can hopefully agree that it is even very doubtful what the effects of a top tax relief are, paragraph 1. Paragraph 2: If we agree across a number of different political parties that we have a growth challenge, and we have, of course, all the time that the government has written down its own growth assessment four times in a row, then we could tackle that growth challenge. And then we'll have to get around a table and discuss how we think we're gonna solve it best. We know that we are going to lack skilled labour. We also know that skilled skilled workers do not fall from the sky, that they are someone to be educated. I believe that it is a real growth killer, to put it quite bluntly, if we do not have the ability to train the Danish workforce to meet the challenges of Danish business. So if you want to support growth, you have to be sure that, as soon as companies need to hire a new employee, we have an employee who has exactly the skills. In my view, and in our view, this will be the best place to start when we talk about growth. Then we can come back to the more business policy afterwards, because there, of course, we also have ideas.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006105145	Here you go, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006105147	Yes, but then we are back to Yvonne spending other people's money, traveling for other people's money, buying fur for other people's money, because there was no answer to the question: Do I recognize the Social Democrats I miss the Social Democrats the craters the crater and that can be answered by saying: yes, crown by crown is the best thing for growth top tax concessions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006105233	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006105235	But the answer is no. The answer is no. I don't believe it. I just don't believe it. That is why we need to get this discussion much, much closer to the reality of companies. Listen to what they're saying out there. What do small and medium-sized enterprises say? They continue to repeat: access to risk capital is essential for growth or not. What are some of the major companies saying, both small and medium-sized? That is: we need to invest in our production equipment in order to increase productivity. Why, then, do we not go in and ensure better depreciation opportunities for it? Now come much, much closer to the reality that is out there, instead of staying in an ideologically founded tower where you think that top tax relief is the answer to everything, no matter what we ask.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006105321	Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006105323	Thank you. Mrs Mette Frederiksen replied to Mr. Peter Skaarup's question about how to deal with a situation in which Mrs Mette Frederiksen became Prime Minister and then had to have the support of the Alternative, Radical, Enhedslisten and SF to maintain a rather tight immigration policy. And good luck with that, if that had to happen. But I would also like to ask something else: Where do the Socialists think that there is a need to tighten up foreign policy further? After all, a large number of restrictions have been made and some of them have also been implemented together, but do the Socialists see the need to tighten up the immigration policy further? We mean, for example. on the part of the Danish People's Party, that there must be a possibility of rejecting asylum seekers at the border before they enter, and then, for good reasons, the number of asylum seekers will drop massively. So does the Social Democratic Party have an ambition for the number of asylum seekers to fall further, and if so, how do they want to contribute to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006105408	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006105409	I have to say that, just as I cannot follow anyone's desire to relax, I do not have a desire to tighten to tighten. I believe that we must pursue the policy of foreigners that is right, that is to say, solve the specific problems that exist and, of course, take care of them, and that is what is crucial: there is no more here than we actually have the capacity to integrate. A place we need to move is exactly where integration is concerned. Because we have to be honest and say that it is still the case that for the group of non-western refugees and immigrants, the employment rate is far too low. It gives us some financial problems • it's to take and feel but it also causes other problems. For that is what helps to support the establishment of parallel societies; it is that which, among other things, is. There is a lack of equality between men and women and, for some, there is also a distance from Danish society. So we must have full turbo on integration, and in my view we must not be romantic, because it is a difficult task, but that is where we really need to move things if we are to make this society stick together.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006105516	Thank you. Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006105519	Thank you. I would like to know whether the Social Democratic Party believes that there are too many now and that the number should be reduced further. It's been around. 5,000 so far, and it is estimated that by the end of the year approx. 10,000 who have applied for asylum in Denmark. In the view of the Social Democrats, is that too many? In the view of the Danish People's Party it is too many. If you think that is too many, then you have to start implementing new measures, new austerity measures. Then I ask for a specific proposal from the Danish People's Party to reject asylum seekers at the border. So the question is this: does the Social Democrats think that there are too many? And if you mean it, you have to be involved in new measures that get the figure even further down. Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006105556	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006105558	It may be that we should ask the Minister for Justice to take part in this discussion, but I believe, with the knowledge available, that it will not be compatible with the obligations we have in European cooperation. And we've had this discussion before. Our starting point is that we accept and recognise the international rules of play that exist, but that does not mean, of course, that there are not also things in what we can discuss. A very good example of this is, of course, that I understand that we have been denied the right to separate minors who have married an adult from the adult at Danish asylum centres. It is, in my view, extremely awful, if it is true that it is a convention that protects adult men in a relationship with a minor child in Denmark. So here's something we should look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006105647	Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006105653	Thank you. In 1978 the Olsen gang will be at war premiere. In short, the plot is about the fact that the Community, as it was at the time, will make Denmark a holiday haven for the common market, because the politicians here have failed. The Danes will work as shoe polishers, folk dancers and extras in a modern North European edition of the Freelands Museum. Egon Olsen is only aware of this because he has been in prison with a land court lawyer who knew well. The point is, I would say to Mrs Mette Frederiksen, that the Danes do not know very well. A plan called 'Trust in Denmark' has been published by the Social Democratic Party, and I understand that sport has taken place in order to copy the undermining of various ministries and their methods of calculation by the Alternative. In order to help a little, I have asked the tax minister Karsten Lauritzen how the GDP effect will be of the two plans, the Health Plan for a stronger Denmark and the Trust in Denmark, and the answer is clear. The initiatives put forward by the government will generate an additional revenue of over 45 billion. kr., whereas the Social Democratic Plan will contribute to the Danish welfare maximum by 4 billion. kr. Is this a figure that can be recognised from the plans and initiatives presented in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006105803	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006105805	If we are talking about GDP growth, I think there is reason to say more. First of all, we should be able to gather together to have a desire to have a more positive growth in the Danish economy and therefore not only have a discussion about the room for manoeuvre, but to have a discussion about how we overall increase the cake. Where the roads part, maybe is in how you think you get there and yet, because I kind of want to...
ParlaMint-DK_20161006105837	Yes, thank you. Mette Frederiksen Wasn't that a very short time? ) Well, it got a little messed up. That's right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006105843	I think that one of the places where we can reach each other is on the issue of growth. The government has put forward some growth initiatives and we have put forward some growth initiatives. Actually, I think we can find each other. So, before trying to separate us completely on this point, I would actually just like to make an appeal that we are trying to reach a good agreement on Danish business policy, and thus a positive desire for continued GDP growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006105911	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006105915	I'd like to sign for the nice words about the growth part of the plan. Nevertheless, I think that there is a very large difference between the 45 billion. kr. in the government's plan and the maximum of 4 billion. kr. in the Social Democratic Party. This may be because trust in Denmark does not contain any of these, we should call the vital elements of reform that both Mrs Mette Frederiksen and the then Prime Minister Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt advocated in the last period: labour market reforms, tax reforms and structural reforms. Can Mrs Mette Frederiksen confirm from this point of view that the social democracy assumes such a change of nationality when moving from government to opposition? It seems a bit like when you were in government you had a German approach, while in opposition you might have a slightly more Greek approach to politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006105959	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006110000	Why don't we get the chamber tone out? It is perhaps a little strange that I should remind you of this, but the Left does not actually have a majority in favour of its plan. So before you shoot too sharply and are too polemical, it might be that you should accept the hands that are being raised so that a broad agreement can be reached. But I would like to arrest that premise and perhaps do so with the words that if we have a toolbox in front of us with various economic tools, it is not so that because a tool works in one situation, it will always do so. After all, we have implemented labour supply reforms. In this way, we have jointly ensured that employment will increase by • and now hold fast • 200,000 up to 2025. We must now be sure that the 200,000 actually match the jobs that are and then, moreover, ensure that there is continued growth in the Danish economy, among other things. through targeted growth reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006110053	Time's up. Unfortunately, I have to cut off some questioners, but that is because the speaking time is not being respected, and we must endeavour to do so. That is unfair in comparison with those colleagues who want to go to. So I would very much ask that we do so in future during the day. Thank you to Mrs Mette Frederiksen. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006110120	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his speech on Tuesday. It was the opening of the Folketing on Tuesday, and this is the opening debate of the Folketing today. It's basically two festivals for democracy. I think we should smile and rejoice about that. It was a fantastic opening last Tuesday. We could sit in our seats and observe a very nice formbrog up here behind the chair. We miss that a little today. It did a good job. So, in one version or another, you can come up with an invitation here at the beginning of the debate to get us back to the Parliamentary Chamber. It will suit the Folketing to make that decision. We heard the opening speech on Tuesday after we had had church halls. It was a really beautiful service, in which I thought I heard one of the most beautiful editions of "In Denmark I was born." Oh, my God, I think I sat in a lot of us. It said something about what we are also working on, namely this wonderful Denmark, which we are all representatives of with the political positions we now have. I would like us to have a little joy and optimism that we have a nice country. We have a country that we love and which we must therefore safeguard. It has been mentioned many times that the Danes in measurements are regarded as one of the happiest people in the world, but it cannot be said often enough that this is a starting point we have, because it also shows why it is worth fighting for it to be so in the future. When I assess why it is so that Denmark is so good a country and that the Danes are really so happy and happy in international contexts, it is because we have a unique community. That's because we're connected in Denmark. That is because we have cohesion. A lot of Danes think that we are close to each other, that we share values, and that we have a community that makes us people who want to fight for each other. We have a willingness to help each other because we feel close. Now there is a lot of tax debate at the moment, and there will probably be the rest of the debate today, but one of the reasons why in Denmark you actually want to pay relatively high taxes is that you have an idea that the redistribution that will then take place, this Robin Hood model that we have, serves our countrymen. It serves those who are exposed and have difficulty in the country we love and who we want to keep together and the people we feel attached to. It goes without saying that if this is the starting point, and if you can really share this analysis, then a greater division, then a greater degree of diversity I know there is someone who calls it diversity, then a more fragmented society will really make many of the things we really like in Denmark risk crumbling. When we look at where the threat really is in relation to this cohesion force, we see that it is in relation to the European Union, in relation to who decides and the type of thing, whether we have possessed our country, whether we have control over our country. There is so much we need to be careful about, and can we do so if we really let others decide? The second is, of course, in relation to the issue of immigration, which, of course, needs to be addressed. When we see a documentary like that in the spring, TV 2's Mosques behind the veil, which a lot of people can remember, these parallel societies where people live completely outside of what we otherwise associate with the good Denmark, which is supposed to hang together and which is supposed to provide security, were uncovered. That is why it is very much about us being aware of precisely these challenges in terms of maintaining the community we care about. When over 21,000 migrants arrived in Denmark last year, some of whom are then allowed to have family reunification, so it becomes a lot more, it is of course worrying. We are in a situation where we can welcome the fact that fewer people have arrived this year, more than 5 000, but more people are coming to Europe, and just in the last few days we have seen the unfortunate situation again, that thousands of people are looking across the Mediterranean to get to Europe and get a foothold. The question is whether we are just sitting in a waiting position right now before migrations come up through Europe again to apply to Scandinavia, including Denmark. The Secretary-General of Danish Refugee Aid took part in a meeting here the other day on Funen, which Fyens Stiftstidende wrote about yesterday, and where under the heading "More refugees on the way" he commented on the Prime Minister's statements from the other day and did not give much for it, for as he says: No number of refugees or solutions have changed. The people on the run are on the other side of the Mediterranean now, but I don't think they'll keep doing that. Quote out. That is exactly right, so if we do not act with due care, we can predict that we are in a situation like the one we stood last year, which will really draw on our goodwill. It can also be said that this is not just a matter of values and cohesion, the type of thing, it is also an economic discussion. A 2025 plan has been presented, and we are talking about taxes and all these things, but this is also very much an economic discussion. We have seen in the government's financial bill for 2017, that spending at home for refugees and migrants is reduced by 3 billion. kr., because fewer people have come to Denmark, so you can downgrade the estimates. That's 3 billion. kr., which one can then say one can increase the local area assistance with it was also discussed just a moment ago so Denmark gets to the highest level ever in near-range assistance. It is a wish that the Danish People's Party also has, that is, that we go that way. But we can use 1 billion. kr. more in relation to neighbourhood assistance, because there is less spending at home for refugees and migrants. In addition to that, when there are 3 billion. kr. This is the first time that we have had a debate on this subject in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and This is really illustrative of what this policy is all about. It is both about us having to behave properly in relation to values, conflicts of value that we otherwise get in Denmark, but is also an economic issue. So if we make sure that refugees and migrants cannot come to Denmark and seek asylum, but get help in the neighbourhood, we can help many more. We can help the right people to a greater extent and we can ensure that there is also greater room for prosperity in this country. We would then like to see the tools put into effect in the political negotiations that are coming and which then also give Denmark the opportunity to do so, because it does not come naturally. And it can be said that the rules we have today do not guarantee it. We have temporary border controls and it will expire on 12 November, and will we not be allowed to extend it until after the German Bundestag elections next year? There is a chancellor down there who has an interest in having things sorted out, at least until she herself is re-elected. But what happens next? We don't know. But the fact that we ourselves in Denmark can decide that we must of course have border controls and that it must also be made permanent is of course crucial for us. So that is one of the points on which we come to debate. This also applies to the fact that there must be immediate treatment at the border, so that, if you come from a safe country, we can say: why not apply for asylum there instead of in Denmark? Why should we accept asylum shopping, which has in fact been the practice for years now? We also think we should help the people who come to Denmark with competence plans, repatriation plans, which uncover what tools it is for those who have come to Denmark to have in order for them to come back and rebuild their home countries. It's the most natural thing. We also believe that the right to benefit introduced by the tripartite agreements in the spring for temporary residents must be removed again, just as, of course, we believe that the bindings which prevent us from doing the most natural thing must be removed. I remember a time when the majority of the Folketing granted citizenship to a person whom the PET considered could be a threat to the security of the empire, on the grounds that we had to, because the stateless Convention said so. These things just don't work. So we are happy to have a discussion with the government and with the Folketing about the economy. We have things here that can really create room for better welfare, too, for more immediate area assistance. In the spring, the calculation was just for 2016-2019, with the figures expected at that time that over the first four years you would have accumulated expenditure in the field of immigration just for asylum of 48 billion. kr., i.e. 12 billion. kr. a year. It illustrates a little what we're dealing with. Now we are talking about whether 9-10 billion should be sent. kr. in the case of homeowners who have paid too much in housing tax, but here we were talking about 12 billion in relation to the immigration challenge. kr. So there really is a need to look at this, also for the sake of more money for our elderly, for there to be more money to secure our hospitals, so that the sick can get proper world-class treatment, and so that we have more police to create more security. I have noticed all other discussions on the 2025 plan, and there is also something about tax. On housing taxation, I would just like to say briefly that we hope that negotiations can get under way, where a majority in this Parliament is ready to quickly make an agreement that creates security for homeowners, and we think that the government should put it behind its head. That is why, at the end of my speech, I would just like to make the clear call to the government to invite those parties that are seriously going to negotiate and to divide the overall plan into individual parts. Why let it all go on the floor if you can make good deals on large parts of the plan? Please start with the housing section to create security for the property owners. Once such an area has been set up, it is also necessary, in the interests of the security of the homeowners, to provide rapid clarification. And it will serve this Parliament that we show that we can do that, even in a situation where there are other things that make many Danes think that it is a little difficult to make agreements here in the Folketing. So I look forward to a hard-working parliamentary year, even if it is interrupted along the way by a parliamentary election, but we have to see that. But until that happens, we are at least in the work clothes and ready to negotiate, I had just said with a certain firmness, and then we shall see where it goes. On behalf of the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party, I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government has submitted a proposal for a plan for Danish economy towards 2025. The Danish Parliament also notes that Denmark is faced with a series of bound tasks to be solved. The Folketing wants to create a stronger Denmark with better conditions for growth, prosperity, welfare and more Danes in work. The Danish Parliament notes with satisfaction that since the elections a number of restrictions have been made on foreign policy, including the introduction of the integration service, and that the asylum influx is at its lowest level for five years. Parliament considers it essential that a strict policy on foreigners should continue to be pursued. The Danish Parliament stresses the importance of solving the urgent, tied tasks, including the existence of a new model for the flawed property assessment system that can provide security for Danish home owners. • V 2).
ParlaMint-DK_20161006111255	Thank you. Then there's a long line of questioners. The first is sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006111301	Thank you, President. After all, it is important in a parliament that there is respect for the rule of the people, including the fact that the conciliation which has been concluded and for which there is a majority, is maintained and respected by the government in office at all times. In this connection, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party and a number of other parties in the Folketing have an agreement on what is called the Togfonden DK. The agreement was concluded on 30 June this year and was intended to meet some of the investment challenges facing the government. In fact, I am just going to ask Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl to confirm that there is therefore a majority behind the Togfonden DK and that we have an expectation that the government will comply with settlements that exist, even if the government is not part of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006111357	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006111359	I share in full expectation. It is clear that we voted in June and we had an idea of how to deal with it here, given that we respect the fact that there had been a service check on how much money comes into the Togfonden DK and that you cannot spend more money than you have. How, then, could we organize it? An agreement was made on this, and it is clear to us that that agreement will be implemented by the government, even if it is not part of it, that it will be part of the Finance Act for next year. It is clear that we also believe that the vote that took place in June took account of the fact that the money is being spent as it enters, and that is why that part is also under control. So I can just say to mr. Benny Engelbrecht, that I share the expectation that it will be in place this autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006111449	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006111453	Thank you for that recognition. Of course, we share it too. When I read the government's draft budget, I am worried, because the specific elements have not been taken into account. In 2017, it's just 10 million. kr., but in the estimated years it is then additional amount. In addition, we then have a finance minister who has himself been sitting there with some calculations, apparently, of the Socialist proposal for the 2025 negotiations. In this context, it has simply been estimated at 1.7 billion. kr. wrong, despite the fact that the Ministry of Finance has calculated what the Train Fund DK requires up to 2020. All I have to do is pray, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl to confirm that the Danish People's Party is also involved in tabling amendments to the Finance Act, so that the Togfonden DK is incorporated in accordance with the agreement we reached on 30 June.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006111545	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006111547	We need to see what initiatives will be needed to ensure this. We have a clear expectation, as I said before, that things will be in place and that they will be in place in the light of what a majority in the Folketing agreed back in June. We believe that what was done in June took account of the things that have happened. This also applies to the amount of money entered into the Train Fund DK. We have had the view throughout that you cannot spend more money than it comes in, and then you have to make it at a pace so that it works. It is my clear expectation that it will be settled. It can be settled by finding out in government offices that it is better to do so. And it is clear that ultimately we in the Folketing always have the opportunity to table amendments if that is necessary in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006111636	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006111638	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for the speech. There are many challenges on which we see the same. There may be a few of the solutions we might be looking at the same way. One of those who has been up a little lately is, of course, one of the concerns that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also walks, namely this with how we take care of Denmark. We do that in the Left's optics by among others. to be as close to Europol as we, unfortunately, cannot be on the board as possible. With all the trouble that has been going on in recent times, I simply need to confirm whether Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl shares the desire to be as close to Europol as possible for the Danish police.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006111722	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006111724	We would like an agreement to be made with the European Union on Europol, which will enable the Danish police to be as close as possible to Europol as is now possible, so that they can draw information, provide information on the behaviour of criminals. We have still not been able to find any arguments to the effect that it is not possible to find an understanding. Who would have an interest in the fact that no solution can be found to this question? We share the view that it is good if Denmark can continue to be associated with Europol. We assume that intensive work is being done on this. We can see from the recent statements made by government ministers that work is still being done to get an agreement in place. We think you should put everything into getting that. We also look forward to success.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006111814	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006111817	Thank you. I can certainly confirm that this work is going to be extremely hard on the part of both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. When I ask that, it is because a Member of the European Parliament for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt said a few days ago that China had now got a cooperation agreement with Europol, and then it was no problem for Denmark either. As I understand it, the agreement with China essentially means that you have a liaison officer sitting on a chair somewhere out at once. This is not exactly the kind of agreement that Denmark should have, but rather what Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl mentions that the registers are accessible. In parentheses, I don't think the Chinese have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006111857	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006111859	Now it can be said that as Chinese heads of state are welcomed in Denmark we had a lot of discussion about that. I hardly think you put a Chinese liaison officer out at once on a wooden chair. But enough about it. It is simply to illustrate that Europol has an interest in working with a great many people. Europol has an interest in detecting the conduct of criminals across borders. Why should that interest suddenly not be present because Denmark wishes to maintain the reservation of law? That is what is really the point. Why should Europol not have exactly the same interest as before 3 December last year in finding a solution for Denmark, which means that the Danish police are still associated with Europol? As long as that logic is there and you can make agreements with Brazil and China and all sorts of other countries, could you not make an agreement with Denmark, which is currently part of Europol? That is what we think is the logical thing in this, and that is why we insist that it must be possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006111957	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006112001	Thank you. Thanks for the speech. I would like to hear a little bit about the Danish People's Party's views on the top tax concessions. We often talk a lot about the demands of the man who has now been baptized Dynamitanders about top tax reliefs of 5%. All the way up. I have heard that the Danish People's Party says that they will not tolerate it, it promises the Danish People's Party not to vote. After all, in the Enhedslisten we think this is something at a time when thousands of people are being hit by the ceiling on cash benefits that the Danish People's Party has added to votes. But that's not the only option. Indeed, the government has also put forward a proposal for top tax incentives. It doesn't go quite that far, but it's tax cuts that give the cashier a few hundred kroner in the hand and those who make a lot of money, over 20,000 kroner. in the hand. Is this a solution for the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006112107	I would like to make it clear that nicknames are not part of the general debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006112114	We do not think that top tax relief is the right thing to do. We are not in favour of top tax relief. We think that the rules on top tax can stand just as they do today. When we go to negotiations, our starting point is always that we do not make ultimate demands. We have given ourselves the opportunity to make an exception here because we have said that there was an extraordinary situation in which a party says that if they do not get a certain thing through, they will overthrow the government before Christmas. Then I think we might as well make it quite clear that the ultimate requirement that was demanded before Christmas will not be added to votes, because then you can take the consequences of it or assess it as you like, but that is our position. Apart from that, we do not come up with the ultimate requirements for negotiations. Our position on top tax is quite clear that we do not think there is room for top tax relief, either those proposed by the Left or those proposed by the Left, should go further.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006112213	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006112217	Just so I understand: Dansk Folkeparti will promise that Dansk Folkeparti will not add votes to a 5% top tax relief all the way up. But 4%. or 3%. or the proposal put forward by the government, or something just below the proposal made by the government, are top tax concessions which the Danish People's Party could well vote for even if it is money that is taken from the common welfare, even if it is money that has been found through a cash aid reform that sends thousands of people into poverty, including their children, with the consequences it has. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006112300	Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006112302	No, I mean, we're not getting to it. It's a question of political debate. Our starting point in relation to top tax is quite clear: we do not think that is our political position. When we discuss these issues, we fight against the fact that someone wants to grant top tax relief. We are fighting this, and we do not think that is necessary in Danish society now. It has something to do with the broadest shoulders carrying the heaviest load, and with justice and with the question of what to do with the money you find for tax cuts: should they primarily go to people with low incomes so that they get more out of going to work? Yeah, we think so. That is our policy. Then Mrs Pernille Skipper asks if I will say one thing and the other and the third. No, I will not, because when we go to the debate we do so in such a way that we negotiate the issues that the parties normally put on the table. But the Danes need to know before a debate exactly what we are going for, because then it will allow them to evaluate afterwards if we get to anything at all • how far we came with what we actually wanted, and then they can assess us on it. I think this is an honest way of conducting politics: that, before a debate, the Danes know exactly where they have the Danish People's Party, and then they can assess us in a result if it is therefore possible to make a result.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006112412	Thank you. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006112416	Thank you. Thanks for the speech. What do you think, sir? Kristian Thulesen Dahl and the Danish People's Party that older fellow citizens and pensioners in their own homes can be pressured to count on how long they can stay in their homes because of rising housing taxes, not least the ground debt, which will uproot them, move them away from their homes, from their networks? Can the Danish People's Party see an opportunity for us to do something together to ensure that citizens who live in their own house, which they have bought and paid for, can continue to stay in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006112458	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006112502	I fully share the ambition that we will have a system of taxation for our homes, which will create much greater security for the Danes, for the Danish homeowners, whether you are 40 years old or you are a pensioner. There simply needs to be greater security, and it is, after all, a greater predictability of what tax you have to pay when you buy your home, so that you know more about what tax you are being put at. One of the instruments that we can use, which lies in the government proposal and which we must discuss, is to take some of the tax and say that it will only have to be paid when you sell the property, so that you do not get into the situation that year by year you get an increasing tax and cannot stay in your house because of the rising tax. So there is a need for greater predictability, there is a need for a greater knowledge of what you are going to pay in tax when you are going to consider whether you want to buy a home. There is a need to create greater security for homeowners. We look forward to negotiating exactly how this is to be done on the basis of the presentation that has now been made yesterday.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006112601	Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006112604	I am, of course, pleased that we agree that it is not just a question of being a pensioner. But the reason why I mention pensioners is precisely that there are limits to what you go out and earn and have next door. We have seen pensioners who have been sitting in a house that has risen and increased in taxes and who, if they did not have an inheritance, have had to move from home and home. Can we then agree that we have a common challenge that also applies to 2017-2020, where there is a huge increase in the ground blame, and that in some form or other we have to sit down in these negotiations and discuss how we ensure that no one is to be chased from house and home on the basis of some costs they couldn't predict when they bought the house?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006112642	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006112646	There is no doubt that there are some who of course find it deeply burdensome that they are receiving rising housing taxes, when the root cause can also rise to 7% in the coming years. A year, that's clear. On the other hand, of course, we also have the dilemma that there are some who have experienced quite, quite large increases in value on some very, very large villas, and who in some parts of the country are sitting and watching these get opportunities to sell a home and put millions in their pockets. And that's the consideration between the two extremes, you might say, it's important for us to figure out how to solve it. Because where we want to put our political forces in the first place is, of course, in the interests of the citizens who, in fact, like Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen also mentions, does not earn very much ■ it may be the pensioner who cannot increase his earnings and then is burdened by some heavy housing taxes year by year which really makes it difficult. Then we have a challenge that needs to be solved. And on the other end, there may be a director who owns a million villa, which is now increasing 3 million. kr. In terms of value, and which then finds it really stressful that the ground debt increases slightly. I guess it's not. I guess it's gonna be okay. These are the extremes we have in this residential debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006112750	Thank you. Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006112754	There is, of course, a proposal which there are no 90 mandates behind here in the Folketing. I am thinking, of course, of the proposal to shut down the possibility of seeking spontaneous asylum in Denmark. And I just have to try to test the degree of how ultimate you are in the Danish People's Party. For if it were now the case that the Liberal Alliance helped the Danish People's Party to achieve this dream for the party, would it still be the case that Dansk Folkeparti will ultimately refuse to lower the top tax by five percentage points all the way up?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006112838	Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006112841	Well, I understand the teasing here from Mr. Knox. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, but if Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll and I went to a room for ourselves and we agreed on some chrome-plated plan, how many mandates are we going to represent? That is why we cannot agree to this hypothesis, because it is not even the case that we would jointly begin to represent something similar to a majority. So, it's like asking me to start going into a hypothetical series of thoughts about something that I know beforehand would never end up being anything in the real world. We can spend each other's time and peace with it, we also need to have the day to go. But so, we can also spend it on something that we know there are some realities in. And if sir... Simon Emil Ammitzbøll can get the Prime Minister to take the floor later in the day and say that there will be an asylum freeze, and I will answer the question again.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006112934	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006112936	I just want to thank you for not being answered no.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006112942	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006112945	Well, then, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll worked with the Prime Minister for the rest of the day.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006112949	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006112954	Thank you. It is sometimes difficult when faced with a political colleague who is very far from himself and has a different view of the reality in which we live. Then it is a question of trying to find the common place where you can sort of meet and find out something. I thought it was very beautiful when Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl just said: there is so much we need to be careful. Because there is a lot to do and you could sing on to Mother Earth: I have you to watch out for. So I miss hearing a little bit: Now that we have to look after Denmark, what about nature, what about the environment, what about our streams? Could the rapporteur say a few words about where the Danish People's Party intends to take action in relation to the fact that we have a nature and an environment under pressure, that we have a climate crisis that we have to deal with? Then I could not hear a little from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party about what they want to do there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006113048	Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006113051	I certainly think it is important that we pay attention to the state of the earth, as has been said, and to climate policy, etc. What can sometimes amaze me a little is that we start from the discussion that the environment is cross-border, and it is therefore a global challenge that some people want Denmark to go very far ahead. And I don't know if it's because you have the feeling that we're such good people or what it is. As far as I am concerned, environmental policy is precisely about the fact that some things are being done at a larger level, some steps are being taken. If we look at who is the largest CO2 which is why our lot in this debate has been to a large extent to ensure that we can still be a society where we can be produced and that we are not going so far in front of other countries that we are really preventing Danish production and Danish jobs. For then we believe that we have done damage to our own opportunities to actually do something good for the environment and for the climate in the long term. So it is true that this is why we are focusing on how we then slightly more open up to, for example. agriculture can produce, and there, of course, we have the debate on watercourses and such things. But we think it is important that we have some conditions so that it can be a little more appropriate to produce in Denmark instead of moving production out of Denmark and losing jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006113215	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006113219	It is quite true that these are precisely cross-border challenges, i.e. problems without passports, which we must solve together in the world. But there are things that concern Denmark. There is not just the situation of watercourses, there is also, for example. biodiversity, when you now choose to expand the ways in which you can work in agriculture. And I simply have to admit that I miss the fact that the love that I know the rapporteur has for Denmark and for our country is also expressed in a desire to protect our nature and our environment and the biodiversity that is absolutely essential for us to have a beautiful country to pass on to the next generations. So it is a loving call to the rapporteur to take this point much more seriously so that we take care of our country.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006113300	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006113303	We are happy to participate both in a discussion and in political agreements that ensure biodiversity and thus also ensure that larger areas are allocated to free nature. We discussed this in the spring. I sometimes think that it is also about getting out and enjoying the nature we have. Well, sometimes I'm a little surprised that there's a lot of people sitting there and now there's a prejudice coming in our big cities and talking a lot about the environment and climate and biodiversity and things and stuff, while the rest of us are wandering around with our clogs in the woods and enjoying the nature we have. There could well be a greater flow of people out in our beautiful areas if you were really so concerned about it. So it's just a call: Come out in beautiful Denmark and see our lovely nature areas! There's a lot of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006113351	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006113354	Thank you. I fully share the pleasure of forming a brook. I was even photographed with Mr. Peter Skaarup down here in the Parliamentary Hall in front of the embroider... a temporary brotherhood, if you will, before today's debate... but the big question is how best to look after. In the Prime Minister's speech, which received many words of praise along the way from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, said the Prime Minister at a time, I believe with reference to what President Obama said earlier in the UN General Assembly, that whoever builds a wall to keep others out ends up shutting himself in or something like that is a loose quote. But the short of the long is really about Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl agrees with it, that if you imagined that we fenced Denmark behind walls, it would harm Denmark's interests, it would not provide security, because what we need is thus better and closer cooperation with the rest of the world. Is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl agrees with me and, I understand, with the Prime Minister in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006113451	Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006113453	For me, one does not rule out the other. When you refer to President Obama, it is a little thought-provoking, because the United States is a country that has really tightened up its border controls. I had thought that most people who have flown to the United States have seen that there is actually control when you enter the country and, like taking him as proof that you cannot have border controls at Denmark's borders, because then you cannot talk to other countries, is nonsense. If we go to Britain, there are also border controls. It is not because we have the experience that Britain is a hostile country. I think that a lot of Danes fly to London and are excited and there is a weekend or longer. It is wonderful that they have border controls, so that is the thing about making it a debate about whether, if we want permanent border controls at Denmark's borders, we do not talk to other countries and we put ourselves in jail. It is such a radical thing, and it is not something that takes place in the Danish People's Party parliament group.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006113549	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006113553	I don't think this is gonna be the news of the day, I guess. Probably not a lot of people have figured that out. But now it wasn't me who said that. That was the Prime Minister, and that's why I was interested in hearing it, because Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl so kindly welcomed the Prime Minister's speech. Maybe we won't get any closer. But then I just want to ask you something else, because I think what you say and what is behind it is important. When we last had an election campaign in Denmark, it was after all about the referendum to Europol, and then Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl was directly asked whether, if you could not get a parallel agreement, you would support a vote, and there you said: then I would recommend a yes, we have clearly accepted that, even if there is the Schengen acquis and border controls. Why couldn't the Danes trust Kristian Thulesen Dahl on that occasion? Why doesn't that promise stand?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006113636	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006113638	The Danes can rely on us to vote for a new referendum if we cannot reach a sensible agreement with the European Union on Europol, but what we have a discussion about, and it is quite true that Mr. Morten Østergaard talks about it, is what Dansk Folkeparti will then recommend the Danes to vote. It is true that what happened in 2015 was premature, because we want there to be a real discussion about how to secure our borders, how to guarantee the right to have border controls It is a little thought-provoking that now it has been said that it is difficult to make a parallel agreement legally, because we are EU members, but some of what has apparently been possible, legally at least, for EU members, is of course to be in Europol, while at the same time having the right to have border controls. That is the situation for Britain and Ireland. That is why, of course, we will have a real job up to a given referendum, which seeks to ensure that we can join Europol, but at the same time retains the right to border controls. That's why we've put this up for discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006113737	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006113745	I just went to DF's website. We stand guard over the weak, it says. I immediately thought that this would have to be a matter for the consumer Ombudsman, because, in reality, it is black talk, if I may say so, at several levels at the same time. The new low-ceiling cash helper strikes 33,000 adults and 7,000 children. Thousands of families are at risk of being evicted from their homes, and the blue smokescreen is that it will send people to work. But even the government's own optimistic figures show that it has virtually no effect on employment. Then why do you do it? Is there any other explanation than that of making savings which can later be distributed as tax relief? It is not always a bad idea to give people a boost. Giving people a boost can be very good if they are able to move, but now, as here far along the way, it is about the sick and the disabled, who for various reasons cannot move, what does a push mean? It means they're falling over.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006113852	Thank you! How did you... ) No! Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Watch your speaking time. Otherwise, as in the first round, many people are not given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006113900	I think that what should happen in relation to the group of cash aid recipients is that you are getting much better at finding out who are sick people who are not to be parked in our cash assistance system and who is going to be in the cash assistance system and who is therefore also able to make an effort. What then happens with the ceiling on cash aid is that people really have an economic opportunity to get on a track where they get more available than they had before if they find employment equivalent to just over one hour a day. I think that if we are to succeed in getting a great many of those who are on cash aid and have been doing so for many years, helped back into the labour market and into a job where they get social contacts, where they get networks, where they find out that they are actually appreciated, then we have to find a model so that these people get started. It's not from 0 hours a week to 37 hours a week in a chop. They can't do that, but many of them can get out and join in a number of hours and then get the feeling of being a citizen who is actually part of the community. There we can say that the ceiling on cash aid has been set up in such a way that, if you manage to do so, you get an economic incentive that means that you end up with an amount of money that is higher than what you had before. So that is at least one of the things that helps help people who are otherwise in a vulnerable position back in the community.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006114023	Sir. Karsten Hønge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006114026	The disabled people's organisations tell us these days about a wealth of inquiries from members who are afraid and insecure about what is happening. Disability organisations agree that it is about thousands of people who will be affected by the ceiling on cash benefits. They are spastics, they are blind, they are wheelchair users, they are people with autism and adhd and many others. A sclerosis-stricken help recipient says that she must save on the medication that reduces the discomfort caused by the disability. That's reality. Everything else is talk of hoping and believing that perhaps such a push will once bring people into the labour market, but the icy reality out there now is that thousands of people with disabilities are also affected, and that is what DF is behind.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006114107	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006114111	There may be people in the cash-aid system who should not be in the cash-aid system, but I do not think the answer is that we generally simply remove the cash-aid ceiling. The answer is that we have these people helped in a different way. I do not want to ignore the fact that, of course, there are people who are worried about it, because in a situation where something new is being introduced. I am just saying that we also need to be able to have a discussion on how to help vulnerable people, and perhaps people who feel psychologically affected because they have been excluded for years, gradually entering the labour market so that they are appreciated and become part of the community as it is, and get the social contacts that you get from being associated with a workplace. I also think that this is about how we get companies to be so spacious that they also accept these people. There was a major debate in the spring on refugees' access to the labour market. Now there could be an appropriate discussion on how to help cash benefit recipients into the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006114206	Sir. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006114211	Thank you. Thank you for the basic approach in speaking and marking not only the everyday policy, but also what you stand for. I therefore agree with the comments made by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Kristian Thulesen Dahl about the consideration and value of the cohesion of our society. Having said that, it may perhaps be possible to put it this way: if you stand on it as the principle starting point and create a greater and greater polarisation, that is, if those who have more get more, and if those who do not have so much have to deliver more, then it pushes the cohesion of our society the wrong way. Is that an opinion, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl shares?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006114310	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006114313	Indeed, there are clear indications, in these decades, that there is a risk here, which is both due, as I said, to the issue of immigration, but also due to a general trend, as we see in very many countries, to greater polarisation and a greater division. Well, what was it we recently heard about the idea of building a residential area on Zealand with fences around, as you can see in some countries, where you can then build some housing for some people who can afford it, and who can live a little secluded from the rest of society if they think that the rest of society presents a little challenge? These are the things we do not want to see in Denmark. So I really think it is important and I am glad that it is received in such a way from a position of principle that we are looking at how to ensure the cohesion of this country in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006114404	Sir. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006114408	Standing on what one then stands for and if we then keep it together with what we are in, that is, a situation where our welfare is under pressure, a situation in which we can see that productivity could have been better and developed better over recent years, so that we are in a situation where there is a lack of the right competences, is the logical consequence of that not in the practical policy, that having to conclude a 2025 agreement would be to go the wrong way if such an agreement had to contain top tax relief, because it does not address the problems that push the cohesion of our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006114445	Here you go, sir. Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006114450	Now I could say, rather polemically, that we were also opposed to the top tax concessions made by the Social Democracy in 2012. That's when they raised the limit from $390,000. To, I think 467,000 kroner. or something similar to when to pay top tax. But peace be to it. In other words, we went to the vote that, paragraph 1, we could not see, there was room for tax relief, paragraph 2, that if there was a room for tax relief in some way, we wanted to spend the money at the bottom of the income scale so that those with low incomes were allowed to keep a little more for themselves. When we did so, and indeed have that policy and advocate that policy today, it was on the basis that we believe that this is what can also help to put our society together better. It is a little thought-provoking that it was Danske Bank's director who was out not so long ago and actually say "and he was in favour of top tax relief," it has to be said in order to just respect his view that if it helped to create a greater division in society, it was unwise to make them. Maybe it was a little thought-provoking that it came from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006114546	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006114555	Thank you very much, and thank you for your speech. After all, the government is proposing a series of serious deteriorations for the elderly and for pensioners in this country: a higher retirement age, a deterioration in housing benefits, which hits hard among pensioners with low and very low incomes, no tax relief for pensioners, but on the other hand, in the eyes of the goose, a worse regulation of the pension, the green cheque disappears, and a lower salary for the senior job than the colleague standing next to it. I do not think the Danish People's Party thinks that any of these proposals are good and I would certainly like to hear about it. My question is: Will the Danish People's Party use its key role as a decisive voice to block these proposals?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006114634	Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006114637	Now there are both proposals where there is a reduction and proposals where nothing is done. If others get more, of course it can also be seen as a deterioration, so if others get a tax relief and you don't get it yourself, is it a deterioration, or is it the status quo? It depends on the eyes that see. But we clearly believe that pensioners should be on the wagon. We therefore believe that, when there is an opportunity for better buying opportunities, for example, why should pensioners not also benefit from it? After all, it is true that for a few years there has been a reduced regulation of the transfers of pensioners, i.e. the retirement pension. We weren't part of the deal that did this from this year to 2023, so our starting point is of course also that we think it's a bad idea to do it in 2024 and 2025 when you want to extend it. So in this way there are some things in relation to the economy of pensioners, which of course are part of the overall discussion, and there I think that the starting point that is being taken up here in the question is very good, also in relation to what the Danish People's Party is going to do in terms of the conditions of pensioners in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006114744	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006114751	Thank you. What I was asking was whether the Danish People's Party would use the power that the Danish People's Party has, of course, by being decisive voices, to block these proposals. I do not understand why I am getting such a woolly answer, because the rapporteur said in her reply to Mrs Pernille Skipper that it is important that, before entering into a debate, you should know where you have each other and then you should clearly describe it. The rapporteur has not done that with the answer I have received. This leads me to conclude that one can of course fear that the Danish People's Party is prepared to shun the conditions of pensioners in the areas I mentioned here. Otherwise, we will have to have a very clear answer, possibly on the individual points. Finally, I should like to ask a question which can also be answered 'yes' or 'no', following on from this. The Government has announced that it will resubmit proposals to reduce the housing benefits of pensioners. Is the Danish People's Party behind this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006114840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006114843	It is crystal clear what the Danish People's Party's policy is: we are not going to a debate to reduce the conditions of pensioners; we are going to negotiations to improve the conditions of pensioners. So you can be quite comfortable with that, and you will know that before we enter a negotiating room. Now I specifically took out the point, which was one of the things that was mentioned here, about the regulation of their pensions by pensioners, and then I replied to it, but that was not so good enough. Now I could do it here in the second round with the wider brush; then you know where the Danish People's Party is in relation to the negotiations. In relation to housing benefits, we do not want there to be savings on the housing benefits of pensioners that the government has set up. We have said this to the government in the past, and I would like to say this here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006114925	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006114931	Thank you for that, and thank you for a very nice speech. After all, a housing tax has been introduced, and I can hear that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl recommends a quick appointment. I hope that we can reach both a swift and a broad agreement. I just want to hear: what will the Danish People's Party go to the negotiations with?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006114947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006114950	There's a lot of things in the game that's come. I share the wish that we should have both a rapid and a broad agreement. There's no disagreement there. After all, we have the opportunity to create security for the property owners, both for the existing and for the future, and of course the security is that there is a solution to how much people can be burdened with the current property owners, and that is one part of it. The second part of this is that when you buy a dwelling, you are fully aware of what can happen to the taxation of that dwelling in the future. For security is, of course, that you have knowledge of what conditions you buy a dwelling on. Then you can assess for yourself what you want to give for the home and whether you want to buy it at all or you would rather buy one in another area where the home might be cheaper. These are some of the elements that are important. There are then some instruments in the game to ensure what we must, of course, look at. There are, among other things: This thing with a freezing of what's beyond the pay projection, where we have to look at whether that's the right way to do it. So what are the instruments to secure this? But we are talking about security for existing property owners in relation to the future tax, and then we are talking about whether you know enough about what future taxation can become when the house changes owner, so that you as future home owner are also safe. These are some of the points we are putting forward in favour of these negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006115108	There are no more questions. Then we move on to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006115121	Thank you. If you can lighten the top tax by 5%. for the latter without taking anything from others, without taking anything from the elderly, the disabled, schools or hospitals, what is the argument for not doing so?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006115138	Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006115140	Okay, now there's a sponsor coming in. I don't know where that sponsor came from all of a sudden with a big money bag. That's interesting, isn't it? And who's that sponsor? I think this is about two things. It is about us being convinced that, if you lighten the top tax as proposed, it costs some money. We can then argue about how much it costs, but we are convinced that it costs some money and there will then be less money for something else. And another point is a fundamental view that we have, namely that it is actually good to have a system which is based on the fact that the broadest shoulders bear the heaviest burdens, that there is therefore some fairness in our tax system, so that people who are hard-working and have low wages and who think they are paying enough in taxes can also see that people who have really high wages also pay a little more. It's okay. That was, in fact, what I said a little while ago about the director of Danske Bank. He is in favour of top tax relief to emphasise that, because I shall not abuse at all what he has said. However, he goes out and says that if this discussion can lead to a greater division in Danish society, it is not certain that top tax relief should be made. At any rate, there is something in his thinking here which I think should also give rise to some reflection in a party such as the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006115303	Thank you. Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006115309	Thank you. I don't know why, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is talking about a sponsor. For there is a room for manoeuvre of approx. 41 billion kr. without reforms, without taking anything from anyone else. And to lighten the top tax by 5%. for the latter will cost less than 1 billion. kr. So it doesn't take a sponsor to do that. This is about the broad shoulders carrying the most: yes, they must, and they will, in any case. With the Liberal Alliance's proposal, you will pay 16 times as much tax if you make 2 million. kr., like if you make 200,000 kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006115349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006115355	It's okay. I think we're just talking a little bit past each other here. Because the room for manoeuvre is for me to see not just money like that. That is true: it is not a big sponsor who has just brought a bag of money. It's some money that's come because of something. They have come because of past reforms that have been made. When you have discussed unemployment benefit reform and retirement age and the like, a room has come out of all the things you have done, and that is so money we have to do well in the future. Then, of course, you have to choose how to use them. So there we have, we think, a consideration to take to our hospitals so that they can deliver world-class treatments. We often discuss medicine prices. Can we afford to pay the medicines that come on the market and that benefit patients? We think we should be able to afford that. If we are talking about care for the elderly and the like, then there is really room for it, for example. can also be two that can help the elderly at night if you are at a dementia care center where the elderly exchange day and night? Can we afford it, or can there really only be room for one such place? What about the police? We're talking about whether we can afford to train enough police officers. There's a big discussion about that if 5%. If the police force needs to be used at the border, you can't solve break-ins. What's that bullshit? So let's get some more cops trained so we can do what we have to do. That's where we need the room. So it's just to say that for us it's important that we have such money to do these things in our welfare community. It comes in our optics before top tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006115522	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006115548	Thank you. It is a well-known fact that some of those who find it hardest to get back to work once they have become unemployed are people who are a little older. And it is of course people who have a lot of willingness to work and a lot of work capacity, but there may be some employers who have some prejudices about what it's like to be a little older in the labour market. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party are very pleased with the senior job scheme, which provides a safe transition from the labour market to early retirement and pension for the approx. 3,500 Danes who use it. But now we can see that the government is up to downgrade the salary that people get in senior jobs to the daily allowance rate so as to be able to compensate for tax cuts. Will the rapporteur confirm that the Danish People's Party shares the view of the Social Democratic Party that the senior job scheme should be maintained as it is, and therefore not revised downwards in relation to the daily allowance rate?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006115619	Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006115622	I mean, I really think it's a little weird to make this proposal. It should be remembered that, when we have that arrangement, it is, among other things, the case. also because we recognise that there are seniors who have a few years before they have the opportunity to get on early retirement, i.e. if they lose the job where they are actually in a particularly difficult situation. And then we have wanted to provide them with a safety net, in that they can then be guaranteed a job and then get done something useful, while in fact they also fulfil the right to be able to pay early retirement. And it can be said that the proposal would not interfere with that, but it then messes with the benefit that you can get and where you no longer have to be paid, but have something that corresponds to the level of unemployment benefit. And it is not a proposal that we wanted to make, and it is not a proposal that we can support immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006115710	Here you go, sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006115715	Thank you. I am glad to hear that, and I would really just like to hear the rapporteur confirm that the Danish People's Party does not agree with an agreement that cuts or downgrades the salary to the benefit rate for the senior job scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006115729	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006115730	It is quite usual, therefore, to know the position of the Danish People's Party if we go into a negotiating room, and then we will have to be judged on what we come out with if there is a result. And then we're responsible for what we're doing. But you have to know our position and it is that we think this is an important element. Since the retirement age has also been raised, the retirement age has been raised, it has been said to those people who can get into trouble, these seniors, that there is a safety net here for them. And we want to safeguard that safety net, and that is also what we are talking about discussing the senior job scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006115800	Thank you. And then, sir... Kristian Thulesen Dahl's time to answer questions finished. I'm here to postpone the sitting until 8:00 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006130000	The sitting is resumed. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006130015	Thank you for that, President. And we hope that the rest of the thing will return from lunch soon. There are many different ambitions in this world. There are some ambitions that are good; there are some ambitions that are bad; there are some ambitions that are political; and there are ambitions that are personal, and then there are perhaps some ambitions that are more, we must say noble than others. I know that we may disagree in this regard about the ambitions that fall into which category, but I think we can actually agree that politics is to a very large extent about having ambitions and preferably on behalf of Denmark. We're living in a weird time. For the most part, things are going quite well here in Denmark, and the Danes, most of them, are feeling better now than ever before. But progress is not a law of nature, and for the first time in 200 years there is a real risk that our children will become poorer than we were ourselves and that we ourselves are not only in crowns and ears, because poverty cannot be made up of money alone. No. It's basically far worse. For the first time in 200 years, we risk passing on a Denmark to our children, where they have fewer and worse opportunities to create a good life than we ourselves had. It will be a step backwards for the whole of civilisation, and that must not happen. The Left's ambition is clear: we want to add to that we do not want to subtract. We will give a stronger and richer Denmark with more opportunities beyond what we ourselves had. We want to ensure the future of Denmark, not just until the next elections, but until the next generation, and the government's overall plan does just that, while we do the bound tasks: the tasks that have to be solved, regardless of which government sits down here. The whole plan is an opportunity to make good times better, but it is not a requirement. Will Denmark stand without an overall plan? Yes, it will, but it has a price to say blankly no. The price is a poorer Denmark with fewer opportunities for ourselves and for our children. The price is an annual amount available, which is DKK 15,000. lower for a typical Danish family. The price is the moral problem that lies in the fact that for some there is no significant economic gain from working rather than being supported. The price is less jobs. The price is 27 billion. less kr. for investment in infrastructure. And the price is a lack of opportunity to put aside at worse times, so we have something to resist. The price is that we must abandon our ambitions for Denmark. But what about that is typically how the criticism of the overall plan starts, and criticism has actually been a part of it, and we have gradually been far around the inequality, climate, SU, cash relief ceiling, retirement age, less regulation of transfer income, interest subsidies to folk pensionists with large housing loans, children's check for children 4 to 17, and I must come after the Things always with the buds and the criticism at the front and with the courage and ambition hidden away. I think it would be helpful just to go through a few of these points step by step to save some time and perhaps also create space to talk a little about the ambitions of this debate that follows. So what about the inequality? Yeah, it's rising, but it's not much. And does a little greater inequality in the world's most equal country mean that we have to give up our ambition for a stronger, for a richer Denmark? No. Can anyone be surprised that we are becoming a little less equal if it is better to work as if it were what the Left went to the polls on? No. Did the Socialists make Denmark a bad country with the tax reform because it increased inequality by providing top tax relief? No. Did the Social Democrats destroy the welfare society with a cash aid reform, an SU reform and a growth package that all increased inequality? No, they didn't. For one thing is certain: if Denmark becomes poorer, it is always the weakest who will pay the price. That is why I agree with the former chairman of the Socialist Group, Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt, when she said that one should be very careful to draw very big conclusions from the fluctuations in the Gini Coefficient • yes, I will miss her completely. But what about the climate? Yeah, what about the climate? If you are to believe the critical voices, Denmark will almost be turned into a grey and barren coal-fired field if the overall plan is implemented. However, when the Left was involved in the energy agreement in 2012, Mr. Martin Lidegaard, who was then Minister for Energy and Climate Affairs, said that the agreement was the widest, the greenest and the longest-lasting energy reconciliation ever in Denmark. And the fact is that on all essential parameters it has gone faster with the green transition than we expected. So, the greenest energy reconciliation ever, and we are ahead of expectations, because we are even greener than the greenest. Isn't that wonderful? What about the beneficiaries of the transfer income, who receive less money than they would otherwise have received, in 2024 and 2025. Yes, the increase in their transfer income will be slightly smaller in the 2 years than it would otherwise have been. And this cannot be allowed to happen, according to the Socialist financial rapporteur, Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, who at the beginning of September let the outrage flow freely and proclaimed to a journalist who wanted to write it down: I think it is very unsympathetic to take money from the long-term unemployed and people on transfer income to spend it on tax cuts. And excuse me, but I think it's just a trick too tight. For what was it like now that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht and the company themselves financed their tax reform? Yeah, it was the same way, just four times. Here it is the Social Democrats' policy that it is quite okay to regulate slightly less on transfers in 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023. But in 2024 and 2025, it's very unsympathetic. Honestly, it cannot and must not be taken seriously. Why don't you join us and play some ball instead of this nonsense? But what about the elderly? Surely they cannot be allowed to remain on the labour market any longer. First, perhaps we should remember the story: for almost 50 years, which is from 1957 to 2004, the retirement age was 67. We have suggested that we adjust it a little earlier than we have otherwise agreed with, among other things. The Social Democrats, with 1⁄2 years, so it will be 6711⁄2 years in 2025, because fortunately people live longer, and in this way we can live up to our promise that people can look forward to approx. 141⁄2 years of retirement on average; 180 days minus weekends and holidays and of course with the possibility of going from earlier to those who cannot work. I could add many more words to that, and I would like to take the debate to that point and to others, because I would like to be on the target of this overall plan. And frankly, I am proud to represent a party that has presented a coherent plan with ambitions for Denmark. It is both easy and tempting to criticise. It is much more difficult to bring constructive and ambitious kicks. However, I had not imagined that we could end up here in a situation where so many parties, including Denmark at present. The main party will put opposition ahead of ambition, a situation in which we disagree not only on the path to the goal, but also on whether we should set ourselves an objective at all. I can't recall having experienced that before. If you do not want to make Denmark richer, then say so. Why go and tuck it in? It is basically doing so well to say what you really mean, and what I mean right now is that I look forward to the debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006130958	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have come to the brief remarks. Once again, I would urge you to keep to the speaking time, as many people as possible can speak. The first to ask for the floor is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006131013	Now the rapporteur said that we will probably break open, among other things. The SU, and that's right. We can take that with us. The government has planned to cut almost one fifth of the SU. This will mean that students whose economy is already under pressure will have a much smaller standard of living every month. There will be less for food, less for study books, less for medicine, rent, insurance, etc. The Prime Minister has said that the students will keep the same standard of living as today. But does the rapporteur agree with me that this is not true? After all, if students are to keep the same standard of living as today, they have to work more. Is that true? Is that possible for everyone to do? Can the disabled person, who is working hard as he can to keep up with the school, but who has a poor ability to work, just work more? Can the single mother who's picking up her child just work more? What about those nurse students who have internship and shift shifts? Can they just work more? There are many students who can't work anymore. What do they need to do to have the same standard of living as today?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006131125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006131126	Thank you for your comment. It's true that in this plan, we're going to cut the part of the SU that you get as a scholarship. In exchange for the 800 kroner cut there, you get the opportunity to borrow up to 1,000 kroner. more, you get the opportunity to earn 1,000 kroner. more besides, and you get more favourable loan conditions. So you get to pay an interest rate of 0 per cent as long as you study and you get a deduction when you finish your study. Somewhere it is also this group of higher education students who can look forward to the top tax concessions that are also in play and that they will benefit from when they enter the labour market later on. So yes, you can actually stand with the same amount of money available. This requires that you invest something in your own education and more than you do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006131219	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006131222	Thanks for the honesty. So you don't have the same basis of living if you can't work anymore. In any case, it will require more debt. In 2012, the Danes owed 21 billion. kr. in SU loans. By 2015, that figure has risen to 29 billion. kr. In 2010, SKAT had to recover the SU debt from approx. 5,000 Danes, while today more than 8,000 Danes have not been able to pay their debts on time, show the new figures. Is that okay? Is it a good idea for young people to borrow more than they already have, or are we going to have a debt generation?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006131304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006131305	I really think that this debate is being conducted as if we do not have the most generous SU in the world. I think it should be borne in mind that we do. We also have that with this proposal that the government is putting forward. What is worth bearing in mind is that the tax concessions that you also get when you finish your study also make it easier to pay back student loans. And, of course, you have to think about it before you record it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006131336	Thank you. And the next brief remark is from Mr. Nicolai Wammen. And I'd like to apologize for the fact that Mr. Nicolai Wammen did not come on as the first rapporteur for the largest party. But we had a little problem with the screen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006131347	Well everything left behind, and I was only happy to be able to give the floor to SF's chairman. It is the case that on 4 October the Prime Minister of the country appeared, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, on TV, and he was asked about the cuts that have been made by the cash aid. There was the answer from the Prime Minister of the country to the single mother who loses approx. 2,600 kroner. a month that it's a handout to her. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left to explain to the single mother and, incidentally, to many of the others who are affected by these savings, in which the hand-out is made, so that they can make their finances work together so that they can pay for sports activities and what else they need for the children who are now living in families hard hit by these savings in cash aid. What is the handshake of which the Prime Minister spoke?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006131449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006131450	The handrail consists of the relatively large sums we, as a prosperous society, give to people who are outside the labour market. The handshake is that we, who are in the labour market, pay taxes and can therefore help those who are outside the labour market. It's quite a solid handshake. A single mother with three children will, for example: get 20,300 kroner. After baby. That is the amount available. I think this is the hallmark of a very wealthy and very generous society. But if Mr. Nicolai Wammen is so violently opposed to this ceiling, is it something you want to remove if you get power as you have been watching, and if so, how do you intend to finance it? We did not get an answer to that from Mrs Mette Frederiksen earlier today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006131537	Sir. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006131539	I have to understand that you take $2,600. From the single mother, it's a handout. And then I just want to ask in all silence: is it also a hand-out to the older person on the labour market who has been looking forward to retiring and has been working and dragging a whole life, that you have to work six months longer in order to finance top tax relief for some others? And is it also a helping hand to the student that one has to owe oneself in order to be able to take up one's education, in relation to what is happening today? It is just to understand the interpretation of hand-out by the Prime Minister and the rapporteur. The places where you lose money or have to work longer are a hand-out. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006131627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006131628	I just have to react to that rhetoric. Because as a society, we don't take money from people. We give money to people, and the sums we give are quite generous. A married couple or couple on cash benefits who have two children receive DKK 23,200. After baby. We can be familiar with this, and I am actually proud to live in a country that can afford to put its hands under each other when we encounter something that we did not plan for. Yeah, it's generous, yeah, it's a handout.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006131702	Thank you. And then I give the floor to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006131707	Thank you. I have a question for Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen on border controls. After all, until now temporary border controls will expire on 12 November. So the first thing that is important to get in place is of course: can we have the assurance that border controls will also exist after 12 November? The second question I have to ask Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, how long can we continue to extend temporary border controls before we have to have a real discussion on whether it should be permanent? In other words, at some point you have to think that it could be a cheaper way to have border controls if you build it up in a slightly different way, where it is permanent in nature, than this, that you always have temporary controls, where you have to have officers from other parts of Denmark posted. It is, of course, more expensive than if they were employed to be border guards. So I have these two questions for Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen on border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006131802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006131803	In other words, if border controls continue after the temporary controls that we have now expire, I leave very, very securely to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. I'm quite sure she's got that under control. So when can we stop this temporary border control? But we can do that when we have the certainty that Europe's external borders are under control. Because that was the whole reason why we introduced this temporary border control. That's because we could see a situation last year... we probably all remember it... with a lot of people moving up Danish highways. This is a situation which none of us in here has any wish to repeat. That is also why we have been asked to introduce this emergency brake so that, if we are in a similar situation, it is quite different tools that are being used.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006131854	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006131856	I recently read in the Danish Police Federation's magazine, and quoted after memory, something was said about the fact that if you are to get 37 hours of work from a police officer who has to check at the border, it costs 57 hours, because we hire a police officer at the North Zealand Police Department, and then we say afterwards: "By the way, you have to go to the border and patrol and do your job. And it is in the nature of things that there are extras and postings and accommodations and things and things, so that's an expensive way to do it. If you can see that this is going to take a very long time... the external controls are not in order for many years to come... then you might as well make the decision to have a permanent border control, hire people at the border. It's a cheaper way, it's a better way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006131941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006131943	Well, I kind of share sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's concern about police action, and I would have liked to see us just having enough police to solve all crimes and that everything was good. And we are doing something about that. That is why we are also putting money in the overall plan into this very common security pool, that is to say money, which is to say, that we can strengthen our defence and strengthen our police. We have also had the Home Guard put on the task, so creative thoughts are thought about how we can do this in the most efficient and sensible way in terms of resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006132020	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006132024	Thank you. I would like to continue a little where Mr. Nicolai Wammens escaped, talking about the cash benefits ceiling and the cash benefits reform. In his speech, the rapporteur makes a great deal of reference to the fact that this cannot really be a surprise to anyone. It kind of gives you the feeling that now we all need to relax and take it easy and that it's not so bad. And we knew it was gonna happen. Thousands of people are going to be sent into poverty. 7,000 children are sent into poverty. They didn't do anything. People will most likely be evicted from their homes, the housing organizations also say to you. It is going to hit people with disabilities and illness, as the disability organisations say to you too. It may not surprise anyone, but isn't it a little bit a laissez faire attitude to have for people's livelihood and children's upbringing to say that it couldn't surprise anyone? And especially when we know that three-quarters of the people affected by the ceiling have not been declared ready for work at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006132141	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006132142	I simply think that we need to start from how much money we are giving to those people who are outside the labour market. Because those numbers have kind of surprised a lot of people. I mentioned a number before. A couple on cash benefits with two children have 23,200 DKK. After baby. And yes, it's not a dance on roses, and nobody says that. But we have a desire that there should be a difference between whether you are on the labour market or not, whether you get up every morning and get the kids off to work, you work a certain part of your body out of your pants, you work, you are part of the working community in Denmark, you come home, you deal with your family, you contribute to society. We want to reward that and we want to ensure that there is a difference between those who work and those who do not work. That is a perfectly legitimate political wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006132238	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006132239	First of all, I have to object to something. Now the rapporteur has done so several times, that is to say, talking about the amount of available money that has not been deducted from rent. Some twisted figures are being made which have nothing to do with the reality of cash benefits recipients. But no matter how big a figure you can make it sound, it covers up the reality that there are people who will have to choose between paying rent or putting food on the table every month. It's only inside this little bubble that some people deny it, and it's something weird. Three quarters are not ready for work. They can't participate in the working community that you describe so beautifully. And how others are gonna feel when they get poor, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006132323	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006132324	You try to draw this picture that we're a poor society because there are some people who don't get as much money. I simply think that is completely unreasonable. All of us Danes have to pay the rent of the amount of availability we have, or pay the term, or whatever we pay. We all do. So it's not really to hide any money. I'm just telling you what the amount of money you have at your disposal after tax. I think it is a sign of a very, very rich and generous and, as such, also empathetic society that we can afford to take care of each other in the way we do in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006132403	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006132408	Thank you. I'd like to start by signing for the initiative the government has made. It draws on long stretches in the right direction, and that's good. The rapporteur spoke a great deal about the importance of having ambitions on behalf of Denmark, and we fully agree with that in the Liberal Alliance. Everyone can have ambitions, but what is important is that you live up to your ambitions. The government's basis says that the government has an ambition to lower the marginal tax, the tax on the last earned crown, by 5 percentage points. Then I would like to ask what the marginal tax will be if the government's proposal is adopted as it stands now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006132451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006132453	I think I know what it is, sir. Joachim B. Olsen is referring to. It has something to do with the top treasure. I have to say that we have reached 90%. I think the government has an ambition to be able to carry out other things, to be able to carry out many of the other things that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen praises the general plan of the government. That possibility may not be entirely available if one insists on implementing 100 per cent. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Joachim B. Olsen is referring to.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006132526	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006132528	I'd say it is. Left went to election on zero growth. In the playout, you put up to 0.5%. public growth. So you're going to spend 22 billion. kr. in the public sector. But my question was actually quite simple: it says in the government base that there is an ambition to reduce the tax on the last earned crown by 5 percentage points. Today we have a marginal tax of 56 per cent. What will the marginal tax be if the government's plan is implemented as it stands today?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006132558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006132600	If you implement the government's plan as it stands today, then the marginal tax for the Danes will I believe it is over 700,000 which will pay top tax today and earn between about 0.5 and 1 million. DKK 5 per cent. lower. It will be for them, and I think that is quite ambitious, because we are deeply dependent on some people. They are experts, they are skilled people who can get similar jobs abroad and on whom Danish knowledge-intensive companies are incredibly dependent. That is where we focus and say: well, that is also what makes political sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006132639	Thank you. Then it is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006132644	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for starting with the word ambition. Because there is such a need for ambition right now. There is a need for ambition when we look at the agreements we signed last year on the UN's sustainability objectives and the Paris Agreement. Then it is a pity that the rapporteur is going to start apologizing for the fact that we are not really going to live up to the agreements that we have signed, because in sustainability targets 10 on inequality it says that we must work to reduce inequality both in our own country and between countries. Where is it in the large-scale 10-year plan that has been laid down? Where is Objective 13 about action against climate when we see that the 2025 plan and previous plans from the government are actually turning up CO2 quite significantly so how are we to see those ambitions in the concrete so that it does not just stay at a fantastic start of a speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006132741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006132743	Now the rapporteur mentions the UN's sustainability objectives, and I simply have to say that in Denmark, too, we have challenges in terms of sustainability objectives that are greater than inequality in this country. And there are countries in the world that have more problems with inequality than we do in Denmark. That is why we must tackle the problems in the order that is reasonable. When we want to say that it should pay better to work, it is clear that it will contribute to a slight variation in inequality, because we want to reward people for going to work. Frankly, I do not think this is so cruel, because that is the whole prerequisite for us to be able to afford some people who cannot go to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006132835	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006132837	Now, of course, we have signed up to some goals, global targets, where all the targets are equal. All the objectives are important, and we have to live up to them and nick them. And one of them is sustainability target no. 10 on inequality in society. If there is a plan next year, which will then apply until 2030, where we really do something about inequality, there will be a plan next year that will really do something about the climate, so that we can achieve these sustainability objectives, or when are we going to tackle them when it is not in a 10-year plan, that is, the long-term planning for our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006132910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006132911	Frankly, I think that the plan that was put forward speaks quite clearly. It speaks very clearly about what ambitions we have for Denmark. And there I just vertically disagree with the alternative in that inequality is the biggest challenge in Denmark. That's the way I see it. I must also say that the alternative has an ambition to abolish income tax. How will it affect inequality in Denmark if you do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006132937	Thank you. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Morten Østergaard from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006132942	Thank you. Sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen says that the overall plan speaks its own clear language. The same cannot be said of the proposal for adoption which has been agreed among the parties supporting the government, which states that the Danish Parliament finds that the government has submitted a proposal for a plan for Danish economy...... Well, at least you haven't said too much. It may just be missing that here in Copenhagen the sun stands up 7.26 and goes down 18.32 and that there are 17 million. kr. in the lottery pool on Saturday. What is the big question here is whether we can make any progress. I also noted that the Prime Minister said in his speech that future generations should know that we were adding and that we did not withdraw. I thought those were strong words. That's why I might think that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen could explain something to these 7,000 children who now fall below the poverty limit we had until recently in Denmark and who the Prime Minister promised would not pursue a policy for more people. I recognise that these families are people we are giving money, but is it not also true that, for the very generation of children in the poorest families, they are being dragged off rather than being added to?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006133053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006133054	I simply have to concentrate on the first, as Mr. Morten Østergaard says. It is, of course, very easy to criticize without making any comments. However, we have a vote over on the blue side of the fence, and that is where we have seen all the parties. It has not really succeeded on the other side of the fence. There you haven't even been able to get Enhedslisten to say that water is wet and the sky is blue. So, frankly, I think it is a rather misguided criticism, because not all parties are on the other side.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006133123	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006133124	Yes, but now it is actually the Left that sits in government, and then there are a number of parties that can only agree to establish that the government is making plans. As I said, we are always at the disposal of negotiations, and we hope that there will be a broad search in the Folketing. However, it is noteworthy that the parties which have actually undertaken to lead the country cannot move forward. We are very much at your disposal to lead the country, if you get tired of it, and then you just have to leave. But I think the children deserve an answer from Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen and from the Left. For all the children in the poorest families in Denmark, to whom the Prime Minister made a promise in the election campaign, does the overall plan subtract or add to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006133203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006133204	I know I have mentioned this number sometimes before, but I just have to mention it again. When a couple on cash benefits with two children receive 23,200 DKK. After tax, I honestly do not think that we can stand and talk about poverty in the same breath. I don't think that's fair. And if you're going to look at this poverty line that you've invented under the previous government, you'll see that it's typically self-employed, which are some of the most resourceful people in Denmark who fall for this so-called poverty line, and I think it's kind of gonna make poverty up only in the economy. That's what I thought I said in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006133246	Thank you. Then it is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006133251	Thank you. And thank you for a good speech by the rapporteur, whom I agreed on a long stretch. And may I also say that I am sitting here burning together not being able to enter into that debate about the ceiling on cash benefits. I can barely stand it. I think the rapporteur is responding fantasticly. I look forward to discussing this more in my own speech, and hopefully we will have a huge debate on this subject. But now for something else. It may not come as a great shock that I would like to ask a few questions about housing taxes. Does the rapporteur recognise that the security that everyone has been talking about in the last two days has at least very many parties suddenly spoken out that now there are no limits to how much security we must have created at least not present in 2017, in 2018, in 2019 and 2020 due to an ever-increasing ground debt?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006133346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006133347	I think it's kind of nice to feel the enthusiasm and the trotting horse that's scrubbing in the ground down by Mr. Knox. Søren Pape Poulsen. That is fine, and I am quite sure that there will be questions of inequality and such things when Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen is coming up here. But in relation to the property owners, yes, the ambition of the initiative that has come from the government is simply to say that it wants to create security. Then we can discuss and debate and negotiate on how we do it most effectively, but what is the basis is, of course, that we have a situation from 2020 that we need to address. And until then we have a tax freeze which does not provide the security that we have wanted. It is a tax freeze for which we, as parties, have joint responsibility. There's what we're gonna go out and say, "Well, that doesn't give us the security we wanted. Let's do something about it, let's act on it. But, of course, when creative proposals come forward, they will be listened. So this is something that's been laid out. Now, as Mrs Mette Frederiksen said earlier, let us all just sit down and talk about how we might be able to do it even more excellently.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006133455	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006133457	We will not only make creative proposals, we will make good proposals. And one of them, of course, is that we have to stop housing taxes that can rise by as much as 30%. for the next four years, with 7% increase in the basic debt every year. I think it is a very good thing that we are talking about security, but I also hear what the rapporteur says, namely that we are ready to enter a negotiating area and that we also recognise that there are homeowners who are being violently challenged by an increase of many thousands of kroner over the next four years, until hopefully there will be a real
ParlaMint-DK_20161006133528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006133529	Once again, I acknowledge the desire to take part in these negotiations. I just have to say in general terms that the purpose of this new property tax is to ensure that no one is taxed out of their homes, because we simply cannot offer all the very many people in Denmark who live in their own homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006133552	Thank you. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006133558	Thank you for that, President. I think there were many of us who listened very carefully when the rapporteur said that not only the cash aid received now by the recipients of cash benefits is generous, but also that it must be understood that the new, modern ceiling on cash benefits adopted by the government is generous and a genuine hand-out to the recipients of cash benefits. And for that I have to say: the fact that you are standing here saying that when you remove up to 30,000 kroner. a year from a single mother on cash benefits with a couple of children, it is a helping hand, and that is almost a generous gift to the person concerned and that one still maintains it • I think there are a lot of people who find it difficult to understand. I mean, don't you read the papers? Do you not visit the areas where there are cash aid recipients who say that they must leave their apartment? They sit and turn every penny and have to discuss what a leisure activity the children no longer have to go to. Do you really think that what you have done here, where you remove thousands of kroner a year from cash aid recipients, is generous and that it is basically just a hand-out to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006133711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006133712	I don't know if it's because I'm being so unclear or what. What I think is generous is that a society like the Danish has a surplus, has an economy, has the will to give 23,200 DKK. after tax to a couple who are on cash benefits and who have two children. I think that is generous. So, when there is this fierce criticism by the Social Democrats in relation to this, do I miss an answer to the question that says: 'Well, the Social Democrats want to abolish the ceiling on cash aid?' Because we have not really received an answer to that. And if you do, where's the money for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006133759	Sir. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006133800	So now it is not the Social Democratic Party that calls the government's, one must understand, new, modern cash benefits ceiling ^ as it was chosen to call it a generous hand-out to the cash benefits recipients. It is the rapporteur who is doing this. It is the rapporteur who says that what the recipients of cash benefits receive is generous. It is the Prime Minister of the country who said yesterday on television that basically it is just a hand-out to them. But isn't the reality that those to whom this exercise is really a handout are all those who need top tax relief? So why not just say it as it is, in other words, that it is basically a waste of money to send money to the recipients of cash aid? Because you get a lot more from them by giving top tax relief to people who have a lot in advance. Fourth Vice-President Thank you! ) Stand by what you are proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006133849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006133850	We stand very, very much like the things we propose, and that is why I have stood and repeated the same number a 57-58 times from up here. But there is just not really an answer to the counter-question I have asked. Now I get it, sir. Morten Bødskov has run out of short remarks, but do the Socialists want to do away with this, or is it just criticism? Is it just the thing about pointing fingers and saying, "Oh, shit, what you're doing, we're wrong, but aren't we gonna change it?" So, is this the way we know the Social Democrats? Is that just what you've come back to? Is it the opposition Social Democrats who are just criticising, and then perhaps in incredibly many years' time, if the Social Democrats should get back into government, hopefully, maybe see the Social Democrats responsible again, or what? Fourth Vice-President Thank you! ) Do you want to abolish this ceiling, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006133935	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next brief remark is from Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006133937	Thank you. I want to, too, like sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, just talk to the rapporteur about the border. Our starting points are different. The Left would like to be part of Schengen and Europol and be without border controls, and we would like to have full border controls. So we don't have to discuss that, we know where each other stands. When I take the floor, it is because there was a statement by Commissioner Timmermann the other day when he used this very funny expression that one could be either pregnant or not pregnant, there was no middle solution. What I'm gonna ask, sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, President-in-Office of the Council. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Are there really not a whole range of different ways to be associated with both Europol and Schengen? The other day China was mentioned, Brazil was shown, and we have mentioned that the UK and Ireland have another way of doing it, Norway has a third and there may be a fourth way. So it's a correct picture when it's depicted, as if either you're pregnant or you're not?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006134050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006134052	I was very worried if I should answer Mr. Søren Espersen on whether it was true that you could only be pregnant or not, because it is absolutely right. On the other hand, it can be said that all of this with Schengen and Europol and the connection between the two recognised Danish People's Party also last year, when Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl pointed out several times that he was quite well aware of this and that both were taken along if it were to come there. We hope that this will not happen, we hope that there will be an opportunity for Denmark to have a parallel agreement, and the government is working hard and hard to get that. But if we strive for an agreement like that, countries outside Europe, for example. China, has got, I simply do not think, would be a crazy attractive agreement for the Danish police. We must have and we must fight for an agreement where we are as close as possible to being full members of Europol, without being able to be, because we have respect for the answer given by the Danes on 3 December 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006134151	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006134153	We're glad to hear the government does. What I just want confirmation of is that the picture presented by Commissioner Timmermann is a false picture that it is not either or that there are many different opportunities to be associated. That is what I would like confirmation from the Left rapporteur, that is to say that this is the case so that the picture is signposted, we laughed at it, but it had no substance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006134221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006134222	If it is going to be a member of Europol, you are either a member or you are not a member. Then there may be different modulations of affiliation, as we see with the countries that Mr. Søren Espersen also mentions: Norway, which is closer, China, which is rather farther from it. But the very thing about either being there or not being there was what Commissioner Timmermann said, and he is quite right about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006134248	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006134250	Thank you. Now we hear both the rapporteur and the Prime Minister quite often using the term our children. I just have to say that it is not our children in here who are hit by the ceiling on cash benefits. They are children of disabled people, they are children of single mothers, they are children of sick people. These are people who already have a really, really hard time, and people who struggle every day to make it really stick together. How can it be an outstretched hand to this group that you want to cut down on their benefits, that you want to say to them that you are now pushing them a little into difficult times, into poverty, so that even more children grow up without hope, without dreams and without faith in a better future? These are people who are already fighting a great deal and children who are already struggling just to believe in a future. How can this be a handout? So not many people in here understand that, and I do not think that there are very many out there, not of our children, but of the children of disabled people, single mothers and sick people who understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006134400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006134401	I remember when we were standing here for the final debate, there were some strange situations, because the prefabricated questions of the Social Democratic Press Service were not always understandable to the rapporteurs around, and this has led to the apparently only one question being written for this debate, and it is then repeated in different pitches and different dialects around. It is wonderful that I simply love the Danish language in that way. I just have to ask you back, because apparently I can't get an answer: if this is just so horrible and so horrible, will the Social Democrats do away with it if you get power as you have heeded yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006134441	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006134444	The problem is that now I was the one who led the Social Democratic Party and consulted the Prime Minister and stood down here in the Chamber asking questions, and, like today, I had virtually no answer to anything. So what I'm just hearing is: the ceiling on cash benefits is generous, it's a helping hand to the weakest in society. Does that mean that when I meet a single mother, I'll tell her that even if she kind of loses $2,600. a month on this, she should be deeply grateful that the government we have, that the Left and the Prime Minister will take 2,600 kroner. From her? Is that what I'm supposed to say, you should be grateful?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006134522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006134523	No, it seems to me that we can express our gratitude to those who go to work, not to the government or the Prime Minister or Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, who apparently led the Social Democratic Party, I have to understand. But excuse me, why can't I get an answer to my question? I asked Mrs. Mette Frederiksen when she was standing up here before: this is apparently horrible, but will you then abolish it yes or no? That is simply not a difficult question. You can just shake your head or nod. It's silent.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006134553	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the word is Peder Hvelplunds, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006134601	Thank you. Well, let's stick to this generosity in society. For Danmarks Radio, it took the trouble over the summer to seek access to the ten orders that the Danish Labour Inspectorate has distributed from January to August 2016 in Danish hospital departments due to high workload and time pressure. It's pretty scary reading. Now, I would like to quote from some of the reports: the high pace of work with many simultaneous tasks and interruptions is a source of doctors making mistakes like overlooking the fact that patients are unable to tolerate a drug. Or: A very clear symptom of the amount of work is seen on several occasions, according to the report, when you have such a large overcrowding that there are patients in the hallway, in the bathroom, in the living room and even in a chair in the dining room, although patients need to lie in a bed. It is also in the report that one can read about midwives who collapse because of the pressure of work, about psychiatric patients who are being discharged, even if they are requiring treatment, and about patients who fall because there are no staff to help them in the toilet. After all, I have heard the rapporteur's party colleague, the Minister for Health, say on several occasions that health has received a historic boost of 2.4 billion. kr. But this is the reality, and I just have to ask the Minister: when we repeatedly impose a productivity requirement of 2% in the economic agreements with the regions, is it generous to patients, relatives and staff?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006134729	I would again like to recommend that speaking time be respected. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006134734	Thank you. I am the rapporteur and not the Minister. Oh, my God. Oh. That is true: 2.4 billion has been added. kr. That is because the government and the Left are actually giving this area a very high priority, and it is true that all the problems have not yet been resolved. I have seen the same reports here, and I also find it very, very alarming. That is, of course, why we also set aside 8 billion. kr. to this welfare pool, which is part of the overall plan. Because these are some things that no one can be satisfied with. I don't think anyone in here will say: well, we think that's quite fine, and we think that's really good. So, yes, it's an area we're dealing with. This is an area which we attach very high priority to. We did that for the Finance Act this year, we will do that for the Finance Act next year. But we are also doing so in the long term in the 2025 plan that the government has put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006134824	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006134827	However, it is just a fact that every time the government enters into economic agreements with the regions, it is being charged to the regions to save 2%. a year, or rather provide services for 2%. more every year, without any additional funding being provided. As a consequence, staff are told every time that they have to run faster or make things smarter or more intelligent, and that has a consequence, both for the working environment and for patient safety. So it may well happen that the area is being given money with one hand, but, at the same time, if you take even more through the economic agreement and thereby undermine the whole health system, that does not help much.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006134905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006134906	I do not entirely agree with the way in which this is done. Because I believe that it is possible to be more effective and to do things in a smarter, more appropriate, more efficient way, and at the same time money can be put in other places, which are therefore aimed at patient treatment in the system. I know that we are constantly being faced with the fact that efficiency per year is being improved. definition is bad. I simply do not believe that this is true. I really believe that everything can be made smarter, smarter, more efficient and sometimes cheaper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006134943	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006134947	I could understand from the Prime Minister's opening speech, where much was said about the children, that greater hopes and dreams will be assured for our children in the future. It was such a quote from the speech. I do not know whether the rapporteur himself has seen some of the programmes that Denmark's Radio has sent, which are called "Childhood on Aid', where it is very clear what kind of life situation some of the families are in, which is therefore a rather exposed situation and where it hits the children quite strongly, even as the situation is now. They have difficult growing conditions and also experience bullying and social isolation, etc. Because of the situation they're in. So it is they who want to give a so-called hand-out, I understand, with the ceiling on cash aid. Could the rapporteur just take a look at the screens and explain what a handful of thousands more of their income is to shave to their life situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006135044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006135045	Then we just got the question again, and I shall endeavour to give a versatile answer to the same question that I have now received quite a few times. I've also been watching these broadcasts, and I think that, as a matter of fact, is also some frightening and terrible broadcasts. I just think there's more to poverty than just an economy. So I think that there are also some social issues that are involved here. The amount of DKK 23,200. For a couple on cash benefits with two children, which I have now mentioned many times, I do not believe that is the only thing involved. And yes, we must make an effort and we must help these children to have better opportunities, but I am simply not sure that the economy here is the only factor in their situation. And then I'm gonna have to ask mr. Jesper Petersen: Will the Social Democrats abolish the cash aid ceiling if you gain power as you have observed yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006135142	Sir. Jesper Petersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006135146	Well, the point of view is well known. We are against the ceiling on cash benefits and we are voting against it. But we have no idea how many accidents the Left will have to do before the government has to change, so we have to see what the situation is. But that, sir. Jakob Jensen has to deal with Mr. Uffe and all sorts of other Jenseners, I apologize for being the consequences of the policy being pursued now and not trying to push it away. And Mr. Jacob Jensen now I did it again, no, the rapporteur continues to lure an amount, but will not respond directly to the families, this affects how it should be a hand or a help for them to cut back on the cash benefits they receive in order to be able to cope. No outside talk, no counter-questions... answer how it's a handout to those families.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006135234	Thank you! And then it's the rapporteur, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006135238	Thank you. The Jensen family is large and powerful in the Left, so it's fine that we get mixed up a little. There's a lot more of us than we think. The goal of this is to get these people to work. If this can be a helping hand to get more people into work, then it's a helping hand. We have said that it must be more attractive to work; that the difference between working and not doing it must be greater. Both aspects of job reform have contributed to this. The second is what we have now put forward here in the context of the overall plan, that is to say to reduce the tax significantly on the lowest labour income.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006135322	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Anders Samuelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006135326	Thank you. I would like to follow up on the answer given by the rapporteur to Mr McMillan-Scott's question. Joachim B. Olsen compared to lightening the top tax by the five percentage points. There, the rapporteur stressed that it was important for the Left to ease the top tax for key employees, that is, important, crucial employees for companies. In other words, the employees in the companies who earn more than 1 million. DKK, not considered important, crucial employees from the point of view of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006135352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006135353	Now it could be tempting just to say: No, it won't. But I'd like to elaborate on it a little bit. When I highlight the group that lies between half a million and a million kroner, it is because it is a quite, quite large group in Danish jobs. And it is a group that you are very, very dependent on in the knowledge-heavy Danish companies. But that group, as Mr. Anders Samuelsen is talking about, and of course they are more than one million. kr., therefore, also gets a top tax relief in our proposal, just not from the part of the salary that is over 1 million. kr. So, yes, you get a tax relief here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006135429	Sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006135431	Since we know that there is room for manoeuvre of 41 billion. kr. And you do not have to take anything from anyone at all to give the relief all the way up, can the rapporteur make one rational argument in order not to give the relief all the way up? Is there an economically rational argument behind the decision to set the limit at one million? Is there any justification other than the purely populist one which, of course, is at the root of our digging into it, namely that the Left will not stand alone with 40,000 to 50,000, which earns more than 1 million? kr.? But can an economically rational argument be made not to take off all the way?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006135510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006135512	I can make a very rational but very political argument, and that relates to the figure 90. It relates to the fact that it may well be that Mr. Anders Samuelsen and I and a lot of economists can agree on a lot of things that would be a furious good idea and that would be economically rational, but which there is no majority for in here. And economic reality and political reality sometimes merge. We're some people who might want it to happen more often, but it just doesn't always. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006135542	Thank you. Then the time has come for the rapporteur of the Left. Thank you. Then the next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006135601	Thank you. There has never been more prosperity in our society than there is today. The total amount of resources has never been greater. The Danish companies have a historically large saved profit. Public finances are, in effect, solid. Therefore, it is almost like participating in if not an Olsen gang film then at least a bad setup of the Emperor's New Clothes, when we have this catalogue of unpleasant things that the finance minister has called the government's own 2025 plan. There are none of the attacks on people in our society that have the least, none of the attacks on our welfare, none of the huge failures to climate and environment that are necessary or God-given in one way or another. They are political choices, they are priorities and ideology, and the parties who vote for it are the ones who bear responsibility for it. The consequences of 30 years of tax and tax relief are not that we have been flooded by the many jobs we have otherwise been promised. On the other hand, inequality has increased in our society. The 10%. The richest have become richer since the crisis. A record profit is paid to shareholders. And at the other end of society, many people experience a life of very little money and with very severe anxiety, without affording to go to the dentist, without the possibility of being able to buy healthy food for their children. It is a life where the prospect of a child's birthday can be frightening because it overturns the budget. It is a life in which children suffer deprivation and they are excluded from the community. Nevertheless, the government and the Danish People's Party and the other right have carried out a cash aid reform that pushes thousands of children into poverty. Nevertheless, the government will cut the SU which gives children of parents with low wages the chance to get an education as well. I heard the Prime Minister say the day before yesterday that the goal is for our children in the future to have more opportunities than we ourselves had. But apparently he is not thinking of children of the unemployed or of the low-paid. I don't think the PM should count on getting piles of fan mail from any of them. As inequality rises, it hits the most vulnerable. But it also affects the broad majority, that is to say ordinary employees, who live in greater insecurity, because the consequences of illness or a guy's note are becoming increasingly incalculable, as the safety net gets torn apart, because children go to kindergarten with far too few educators, and because you are met by a hospital service where things go too fast for both patients and employees. We can all get a guy's note in our hands. We can all get sick. We're all gonna need the education system, the kindergarten, the care of the elderly at some point. The government has then tried to wrap the 2025 plan into some sort of glittering cashier's paper, but reality is just another. Those with the highest wages get the biggest discount, thousands of kroner in hand. The cashier gets a couple hundred. Where the champagne corks are really going to jump is on Strandvejen, where the wealthiest homeowners can also look forward to getting a nasty bonus now, while people in rentals and co-locations well notice again is not invited to the party. It costs billions. It is billions which, according to the government, are to be found in early retirement and old-age pensioners at a higher retirement age, which must mean that, in hard and physically hard jobs, they will have even less time from that part of old-age age, which means that they will not have to be in a sick bed, and from the deterioration of the SU which affects all those who find it difficult to break the social inheritance. These are the children of the cashier we're talking about. So the Prime Minister can talk and talk about cashiers and pensioners in small owner-occupied homes, and yes, they all deserve security, no doubt about it, but this is not a plan for them. This is a plan that again takes from the community and gives to those who have the most. It's a plan that increases inequality again. It doesn't have to be like that. These are political choices. We can use better the wealth that we all contribute to creating. Instead of pushing people into poverty, we actually have a historic chance to make poverty the past in Denmark. We can create growth in the welfare that benefits all of us, rather than lowering the tax for those who already have the most. We all have opportunities to create a society that is more rich in the way we treat each other, rich in the opportunities we offer to each other and to our children. We need to distribute resources more fairly and smarter, not least. Because the world can't stand anything else either. Our nature cannot stand up to the fact that the consideration of industrial agriculture is over consideration of our watercourses or even over consideration of the health of all of us, as has been the case in the Danish pig stalls for many years. If we are to deliver a planet in good condition to the children and grandchildren, which the Prime Minister is also constantly talking about, we must go through a fundamental green transition in our society. It should not only be for those who can afford to buy organically in Irma or drive around in a Tesla. It must also be for those who find it difficult to make budgets stick together. That is why, in the Enhedslisten, we want to abolish VAT on organic products, we want to make more recycling shops where we can get things into a cheap money, we want to make sharing arrangements, which means that you can borrow baby clothes or tools or anything else, so you don't have to buy separate items. We need to use resources more sensibly both for the sake of those who do not have much money and for the sake of our planet. In the Enhedslisten, the fight against inequality and the green transition goes hand in hand. It's about priorities. Denmark is one of the richest countries in the world. That is why, frankly, it is petty that the right and, unfortunately, the Socialists are rushing to make the most of people fleeing, not least when it comes to, excuse me, the small 500 quota refugees from UN camps that are being distributed from the vicinity, which house many, many millions. Of course, we have both advice and space and heart space for 500 refugees from the world's hot spots. They just don't have the physics or the money to take the trip across the Mediterranean Sea or through Syria's mountains. It is precisely through quota refugee schemes that legal ways of fleeing from war can be created. This is how we can help to stop the chaos, and Denmark should take the lead. We should say right now that we can accommodate some more of the weakest. Unfortunately, Danish politics is more and more about figures and statistics than it is about people: growth forecasts instead of the problems that ordinary employees face, job offers instead of the insecurity that affects all those who have been given a light note. Together, we can do better. In Enhedslisten we will bet on the community. We will restore the wealth tax and spend the money on SU and education for the benefit of the broad community and all those who cannot get the help of mother and father. That is why we will continue to fight away for a millionaire tax and tax on speculation, so that those who have a great deal and only received more since the crisis can also be allowed to contribute to those who are affected by poverty benefits, unemployment and disease. That is why we also want to introduce taxes for those who are making a mess of nature, and we want to ensure that large companies also contribute to the green transition. When the right is talking about the fact that there is no money for welfare, it is only an attempt to create a panic atmosphere. It must justify an ideological crusade against the welfare society, against security, against all those people who are not part of the absolute top. But it is not a natural necessity to pursue a policy in which we are left more and more to ourselves. Right now, in this second, we are better placed to create a good society for all of us than we have ever had before. We have never had such good opportunities to improve our common welfare and security. We have never stood in such a good position to take global responsibility and take the lead in the fight for human rights, including in the world. We still have the chance to pass on a green and, above all, habitable planet to future generations. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006140603	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to the brief remarks, and the first one is from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006140608	Thank you for that and thank you to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur for the speech. After all, there was also a lot about immigration policy and about the alleviation of migratory flows from North Africa and the Middle East that we see. I am sure that Mrs Pernille Skipper also heard Mrs Mette Frederiksen's answer to the question we asked earlier this day. Mrs Mette Frederiksen made it clear here that if we succeed in gaining power in this country, immigration policy must be based on consensus across the political centre. It is on this basis that the immigration policy being pursued today is the one that needs to be pursued in the future. I just need to be sure, for the sake of order, that Mrs Pernille Skipper will accept it, so that we can be sure that whatever happens to the electorate's ideas about how a Parliament should be composed will not succeed in influencing immigration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006140659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006140702	I hope that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is wrong. In the Enhedslist, we will continue to fight to ensure a more humane refugee policy. This applies, in particular, to the families affected by completely crazy family reunification rules, which means that parents and children can be separated from each other for several years after they have fled from war and destruction and, above all, terrorism. We will fight all we can to ensure that in some way there is a majority in favour of ensuring that the increased costs, which are, after all, when there are many new citizens, are not passed on to municipal welfare. I wish you would, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl wanted to be with Enhedslisten about. We will continue to fight for this. And we will continue to fight for the 500 quota refugees, who do not fill much in the big picture, but who are certainly an important symbol. But if Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl asks if we make ultimate demands, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl rewind and hear his own answer from earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006140757	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006140800	Well, that's exactly what's so interesting. The fact is that the Enhedslisten chooses to support Mrs Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister in this country, knowing that Mrs Mette Frederiksen will certainly answer us that if that happens, the Enhedslisten will have no influence on immigration policy. It is only important that Enhedslisten learns that today, during the opening debate, we have received the promise from the President of the Social Democratic Party that if this happens, it is not what we recommend that the Social Democratic Party take over the Prime Minister's post, for example. Tomorrow, Enhedslisten has no influence on immigration policy. It will be carried with the rest of us. I would just like to ask Mrs Pernille Skipper: has that role been taken up?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006140842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006140845	You'd almost think that Mr. Knox... Kristian Thulesen Dahl is out trying to lure me into pointing at him himself, but that can't be right. So, of course, we want to fight for a better immigration policy, but there must also be 90 mandates for that. Does this mean that we will do everything we can to push the Socialists? - Sir, you can. Kristian Thulesen Dahl bite the tip. Nor is there any doubt that we expect everyone in the new majority, who hopefully will soon bring a new government to power so that we can have a different policy, of course, will have an influence, but we do not go in with ultimate demands.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006140921	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006140925	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper for the speech here. We talked before, while I was standing on the platform, a lot about this with a family on cash benefits and the amount of money available, on the much-discussed DKK 23,200. We did not quite clarify this before, because we were interrupted a little by the limitation in the questions, but I just want to hear: how much does that amount really have to be up before Mrs Pernille Skipper and Enhedslisten think it is generous?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006140956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006140958	First of all, I would just like to refute the fact that they there about. 23,000 kroner. should be such a huge amount. I know that there is a desire, particularly on that side of the House, to pump up the figures so that they really, really sound loud, but I would like to remind you that when you say approx. 23,000 kroner. in the amount available for four people, the rent must also be deducted from the gross amount of the rent, i.e.: all the housing costs and then you have to live for it. So, no, I don't think that's a lot of money. On the contrary, it will have major consequences for the children who are to grow up in those families. I think that is deeply, deeply antisocial. Do we have any specific amount? No, we have not, but there is no doubt about that, and I hope no one else is in any doubt that we do not think it should be put down.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006141043	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006141046	No, but the 23,200 kroner. Well, that's when the amount is. That's why I'm just asking in peace what the amount should be. Because if you think that an amount is unreasonable, then you must have had some thoughts about it, perhaps it would actually be quite financially responsible • about how much money you should have when you are outside the labour market. How much money should there be? Should there be a difference between working or not working, or should the Gini coefficient simply be zero?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006141118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006141121	I think we should stop cutting back. That is my first answer. My second answer is that I do not think there is any particular good reason why there should be a long way down in the amount of money from those who have a job and to those who have been so unlucky to get a note. Working as it is today is worthwhile. It is a tiny group of people who do not have a higher amount in store by getting a job instead of being on cash benefits. And the funny thing about the tiny group of people is that they're still working. However, they are in employment by far the majority of them. So the thing about how it's worth working isn't gonna work. But no, I don't think it's supposed to be if you get a bill, there's got to be a long way down in amounts. On the contrary, one must have confidence in knowing that even if one gets fired or gets a disease, one can stay and maintain a reasonably standard of living.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006141208	Thank you to the rapporteur. Before proceeding with the brief remarks, I should like to mention that Mrs Pernille Skipper has pointed out that she forgot to read out a proposal for adoption. It might be that there are questions on this, so I would ask Mrs Pernille Skipper to read out her proposal for adoption now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006141222	Thank you, and I'm sorry. Suggestions for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the Government's cash benefits ceiling, 225-hour rule, etc. will increase poverty in Denmark and increase insecurity for ordinary employees. Therefore, the party behind this adoption will roll back the cash aid reform. The Danish Parliament notes that Denmark needs a different direction. We must safeguard and strengthen our unique social model and not gradually hollow it down and dismantle it. We must develop our common welfare, strengthen the green transition, reduce inequality, ensure better help for the worn out, create a more inclusive labour market, create more jobs and internships and strengthen skills and education. The Folketing calls for the government to pursue a policy that ensures a socially fair safety net and sustainable development instead of training cuts and welfare savings for the citizens who already have the least. • V.3 - V.3 - V.3 -
ParlaMint-DK_20161006141310	Thank you. The proposal will be distributed. Then we go back to brief remarks, and the next one with a brief comment is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006141319	I'd like to follow up on sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen's question from before. We have to understand in the Enhedslisten that it is simply too small a sum if a single mother with two children is paid DKK 17,600, as is the case after the cash benefits ceiling has entered into force. But it is not an expression of seriousness that one is a party that simply has a problematizing and is against a certain level of cash benefits, a level that is still the highest in the world but has no policy on what level should then be, just as it is irresponsible to be a party that only criticises the increase in inequality in a single year, but also has no policy on how much inequality should then be. All we know is that it shouldn't be zero, but it shouldn't go up either. Well, it's not serious. So now I would like to ask for an answer to this: what should the cash aid be in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006141423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006141427	In the Enhedslisten we think that the ceiling on cash benefits, the reform of cash benefits, is deeply, deeply antisocial. It is not only because some of the money has been spent on, among other things. to finance a plan that apparently has to give money to some of those who already have the most, it is also because it sends people into poverty and increases the insecurity of ordinary employees who may lose their jobs one day. And as I answered Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen just now, I do not think there should be a great difference between being in work and having lost his job, because cash benefits are unemployment benefits. It's a guarantee that you don't end up on the street if you get a bill, because it can happen to all of us in a long life. Therefore, cash benefits can also change over time. I don't have a specific amount. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen can ask all the times he wants, but he won't get it, I won't get it out. But I can conclude that since Mr. Joachim B. Olsens thinks that it is so irresponsible that you cannot put a concrete figure on something you want to change, and I will soon get an answer on exactly how far down the top tax should be before the Liberal Alliance is satisfied.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006141540	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006141543	That is a simple question to answer: it must be removed completely, that is, the top tax. So we actually have a very specific policy. But the Enhedslisten, a party that spends much of its time problematizing the cash benefits ceiling, does not have a cash assistance policy. Well, it's deeply irresponsible. We simply do not know what the amount is. Cash benefits are a sum of money that you get. The Enhedslisten has no policy on what that amount should be. It's in every world, it's irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006141614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006141618	I guess it was just a statement. Well, I'm sorry, but we think that cash aid should be paid and price-regulated so that it follows the rest of the developments. We do not think it should be cut back, and we do not think that there should be a huge difference between being in work and being in unemployment benefits, because that can happen to all of us. And no, I don't have an amount.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006141639	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006141701	Thank you. I would like to start by asking a question, because the slogan of the Enhedslisten is: Community works. And as a folk socialist, I fully agree with that, and we are also fighting many joint battles. But Community is also the European Community and, for example, the European Community. a common police cooperation. Now, on the news yesterday, I read that the Minister for Justice took some preparatory steps in relation to a situation in which Denmark has to withdraw from Europol. I am concerned about this, and I am concerned about the fight against cross-border crime, which I know also includes the Enhedslisten. The Enhedslisten indicated in the vote on the reservation that they would like Denmark to remain in European police cooperation, so my question to Mrs Pernille Skipper is: Is it still your position that Denmark should continue to be part of Europol?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006141755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006141758	Sir. After all, Jacob Mark is absolutely right: the Enhedslisten believes that police cooperation is good and that combating cross-border crime is by its very nature a cross-border task. Sir. Jacob Mark also knows that the Enhedslisten may not always have such an uncritical approach to the EU. And especially when it comes to the surrender of sovereignty or the vote that we were through a year ago, which was not just about Europol, but about giving more and more self-determination to the European Union, which could not be taken back again, and even without asking the people. We were very, very, very opposed to that. Now we have to see what the government gets off with in parallel negotiations. The Prime Minister, I have noted, has not given up yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006141847	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006141850	I did not really hear Mrs Pernille Skipper say whether Mrs Pernille Skipper still believes that Denmark needs to be in Europol in the future. And I think this is absolutely crucial for the fight against cross-border crime. I would like to hear: if it were to happen that there would be a vote in isolation on Denmark's participation in Europol, would the Enhedslisten recommend that the voters vote 'yes' to Denmark being part of Europol cooperation, or would you recommend that you vote 'no'?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006141919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006141922	What we have promised and, as I repeat, the promise that we are, of course, making because there has been some confusion about who is keeping what promises is that, if it is not possible to implement a parallel agreement, we will support a referendum on Europol in isolation. Of course we keep that promise, there is no doubt about it. We have not yet decided what we would recommend a vote. That depends entirely on what the voting theme will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006141951	Thank you. Next, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006141955	Thank you. And thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper for her speech: clear, clear and socialist, as we know Enhedslisten. That's why I love you so much. It's so easy to relate to. I also have to understand that Denmark may be the only spot on earth as you can live. Because if you are poor and plunged into poverty, and if it is not enough, you have no more than DKK 17,000. After tax as a single mother with two children, the rest of the world must be a terrible, terrible place to live. Does Mrs. Pernille Skipper think completely, honestly, seriously, inside the heart, that you are poor if you have 17,600 kroner. in the hand of a single mother with two children and you get your children cared for on top of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006142052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006142055	First of all, thank you very much for calling me clear, clear and socialist. That is one of the nicest things that has been said to me all day today. Secondly, I would like to say that I do not actually understand why Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen must articulate the word poor in that way. Because it's absolutely true that if you have 17,000 kroner. as a single mother with two children, i.e. Three people and also have to pay gross housing costs, so there is not much money left over. And when sir... Søren Pape Poulsen and quite a few others on that side of the hall have turned this up, it is to cover up what the consequences really will be. The consequences will really be that there will be children growing up in poverty, and parents will be single parents, as Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen talks about the choice between rent and food on the table. Housing organisations and vulnerable organisations have warned about this. This means that children cannot go to camp school, that they are excluded from the community and that children's birthdays are an impossibility. So these consequences are enormous. And then you can try to ridicule the word poverty, but it is not very ridiculous when you stand in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006142212	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006142216	I do not want to ridicule the word poverty in any way. I think we should take very seriously those people who actually have very, very little, those who are completely exposed, the homeless. Not many people talk about them. But people come together in great outrage when you have 17,600 kroner. After baby, and that's just where I want to go. Is it really poverty? Does Mrs Pernille Skipper really think that it is really saying that then the children can't come for birthday, and then you can't do anything anymore as a child? What about the people who go to work and earn less than that amount? Are they throwing their children into poverty? Should they be ashamed because they have a job and aren't on cash, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006142256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006142259	I think we should start by reminding each other of what we have to do without when we live in poverty. So it is something to choose between food and rent, but it also means that you suffer some basic deprivation. They choose insurance, medicine, dental visits, children's birthdays, camping school, holidays from all the things that make you not just survive, but that you actually have a surplus to be part of the community. And the ones that hit hardest are the kids. And we can agree that they shouldn't just pull themselves together. Now I did not have time to say anything about the homeless, but I actually thought it was nice that it was brought up, so I hope to have the opportunity to do so later.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006142339	Thank you. Secondly, Mr President, I give the floor to Mr Van der Klaauw to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006142348	Thank you. I have just one brief question for Mrs Pernille Skipper. It is simply a question of: will the Enhedslisten, after an election in which the red bloc gets a majority, demand that the restrictions on foreigners made over the past few years be rolled back?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006142406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006142409	I will answer the same question as I have answered Mr. Peter Skaarup's chairman: The Enhedslisten will fight hard for us to have a different foreign policy. If there's anything that separates Mr. Simpson... Peter Skaarup and me, I actually think that's our attitude to people on the run and how to treat them. And one of the highest things on our list is to make sure that quota refugees are still allowed away to come to Denmark, that we get rid of the family reunification rules that mean that children and parents are kept separate for years, yes, may even be in danger of life while they are waiting for family reunification, and not least, and there I actually thought that the Danish People's Party would agree with us in the Enhedslisten to make sure that the bill, when there are many new citizens coming to Denmark and you have the increased costs in the municipalities that you have, is not passed on to the elderly care, to the kindergartens, to the public schools, as is happening right now. So I hope we can be together about that. We will continue to fight for this. I am so sorry that the Socialists do not agree with us, but I really have a hope that we will get them persuaded one day.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006142516	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006142520	Yes, and we are discussing immigration policy along the way as proposals come up, but that is just not exactly what I asked Mrs Pernille Skipper. I actually asked Mrs Pernille Skipper whether it would be necessary to require the tightenings that have been made, for example. in the area of family reunification, which Mrs Pernille Skipper is very fond of in her speech, is being rolled back if Mrs Mette Frederiksen is to be Prime Minister. That is actually the question. I can also turn it around and say: can the Enhedslisten live with the fact that there is no change in those areas, in other words that the current tight immigration policy is preserved after an election where Enhedslisten is parliamentary basis or believes to be parliamentary basis for Mette Frederiksen?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006142606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006142609	I answer one more time: the Enhedslisten will fight and fight not only to persuade the Social Democrats, but you know what sorry, Mr. Peter Skaarup what also Mr. Peter Skaarup. We hope that one day we will also be persuaded Mr. Peter Skaarup, but we are not going into the negotiations with ultimate demands. I've answered that at one time, so it's gonna be sir. Peter Skaarup me simply not to say. But I would like to repeat how much we are passionate about it. I would like to reiterate how much heart blood it is for the Enhedslisten and how much we also hope, Mr President. Peter Skaarup one day will welcome people on the run with open arms as they deserve.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006142643	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006142648	Thank you very much. Allow me to continue a little along the same lines. Now I am standing here with the proposal for adoption which the rapporteur so well read out before, and one might wonder why such a central issue as immigration policy is not mentioned in a single word at all. It sends out a very clear signal that the red block is deeply divided when it comes to this question. Now the rapporteur has just said that it is not going to make ultimate demands, but, as I remember, it is no more than a few weeks ago that the Enhedslisten said that it would only point to Mette Frederiksen if there were relaxations. Can the rapporteur clarify what some relaxations are going to be given to allerallerhøjler? And is there going to be a claim yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006142727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006142729	I can reject that at once. We should have said so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006142734	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006142736	Okay. Can the rapporteur then say what are some of the reductions that will be given priority? And can the rapporteur say once and for all: we will be able to agree to even the tightest immigration policy as long as we are allowed to come to power? In other words, do we not have a pain limit on how tight a policy of aliens will be pursued? Well, all parties have pain limits in all areas, but to say that you have no ultimate demands is the same as saying: in theory we can agree to anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006142806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006142810	We point to Mette Frederiksen as the negotiating leader after an election, and hopefully there will be a majority in favour of it. Hopefully, with all due respect, we will be getting rid of the Prime Minister, who is sitting by my side, not least because a policy is being pursued on the part of the House that is breaking loose on our welfare society, increasing inequality to the detriment of young people in education and so on. etc. That's what we're gonna do. Does this mean that we agree with everything the Socialists say and do? I really hope that is not the impression that has been given here today. On the contrary, we will fight with beaks and claws, beaks and claws!
ParlaMint-DK_20161006142853	Then it's mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006142900	Thank you for the floor. I have tried many times before today, but it has not been possible until now. Now we have been in debate for several hours and we have not yet touched on the outside world. And Denmark is part of the world, because what is happening around the world has consequences for our everyday life. Not far from here, 4-5 hours of flight from here, we observe a bloodbath in the city of Aleppo, Syria. Some have called it a slaughter house, children, women, hospitals are bombarded every day by the war criminal Assad and the war criminal Putin. Nobody does anything. Everyone is outraged and indignant and condemns it. What does the Enhedslisten suggest we do to protect the civilians in Syria? I have heard the condemnation and indignation, but what will be done in concrete terms? How do you want to act?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006142957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006143000	I would like to start by saying that I actually believe that the indignation and condemnation of the world community is one of the things that is needed to a much greater extent. We also need to investigate what is happening in Aleppo right now as war crimes and take it seriously. We need peace talks to get back on track, hopefully. And then, as Enhedslisten has said for a very, very long time, we need to help the secular forces that are actually in Syria. This is not an easy conflict, one has to say. There are not only two or three, but very many parties to that conflict, and it is very, very difficult to resolve it. You can't solve it with bombs. We hope that this can be resolved by inter alia. to support the secular forces of the Kurdish and other secular forces, as there are, who are actually trying to bring about peace and harmony.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006143048	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006143051	All that is being proposed is very sympathetic and excellent in the long term, but what are we doing here and now to spare civilians? They get massacred every single day. There's a bloodbath in Aleppo. We must also support the secular forces, and we must also give emergency aid. But what are we doing here and now to spare the civilians? I see nothing but a no-fly ban on most of Syria, because what kills most civilians is the planes. Does the Enhedslisten agree that we are working towards a no-fly over most of Syria?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006143124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006143127	You can do that, yes. If this is something that is happening through the UN and with the consent of the world community, then it is certainly not impossible to go in that direction, even for the Enhedslisten. I think sir... Naser Khader thus agrees with me far along the way when I say that the conflict is one of the most scary and insanely difficult to solve. We can't tell anyone that there's a button you can push, and then it's over. But what we can do for civilians is to work with the international community through the UN and try to get the peace talks back on track, and then we can support the secular forces, which are, of course, under pressure, not only in Syria but also in Turkey, which is a NATO member and which should be our allies.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006143207	Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, who has asked for the floor. But he's not here. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006143226	Thank you very much. I understand that we cannot get out of Enhedslisten how much money they think you should have in cash benefits. But hopefully we can learn a little more about whether Enhedslisten thinks it is better to have a job than to be on cash benefits. I want to tell you a little bit about a man named Heydar Mohammed. He's a trucker. He's got a big trucker business, and he's got cabs. He's got, as he says, four or five cabs just standing around collecting dust. And for the same reason he had found himself in the Palace Square the other day, where he was walking around asking those who demonstrated against the ceiling of cash aid. He actually offered them a job here and now. They could get a job as a taxi driver. And he got different answers. Someone used to be a crane driver, and he said that no, I don't really want to drive a car. Someone else told me he didn't have a driver's license. Heydar Mohammed said he could help him with that, but no, he wasn't interested. A third had no desire to drive a car. A fourth thought that it was hard to be a taxi driver because of the wrong working hours. Finally, some people said that we would rather do what we were trained to do. Can you see in the Enhedslisten that it is a paradox that we have people who do not work, while at the same time there are some who actually offer them a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006143335	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006143338	I simply believe that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen needs to go out and get a cup of coffee in the back and see that clip one more time. Because I know that the angle was that uha, now we must be outraged that the unemployed are really such lazy noses. But if you look through that clip, someone said no. Someone said he did not have a driver's license, and then it was said that we can help with that, and then he said that I would like to say yes. So that is nothing more than a terrible spin, trying once again to create a picture that people affected by unemployment are such people who do not want to do anything. That's terrible nonsense. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen has obviously not tried it himself and should talk to some of the people in fact instead of distorting a clip.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006143423	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006143426	I don't think it's fair that I should be accused of distorting a clip. I have just been looking through it again to make sure that I am not saying anything wrong, and I have sat down and written down the comments that have been made. So I don't think that's fair. But I can also say that so far he has not received a single request back either by e-mail or otherwise. It is true that there are some who say, then they will consider it. That's right. But he has not yet received any inquiries. And the things I've just read, I've taken straight from the cliff. So I don't think it's entirely fair that I should be accused of misquoting.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006143457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006143500	Well, I'm sorry, that's just not right. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen says there's the example of him who says I don't have a driver's license. The end of that conversation is that okay, well, thank you, I'd love to. That is simply not true. Maybe we haven't seen the same clip. Maybe it is, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen has seen a slightly different haircut, so you haven't got it all. But someone says he doesn't want that. In addition, I would like to say that we have also checked it. That is, for example, the case. not broken up on Jobnet. I think you can call 3F, too, and I'm sure there's a whole lot of people who want to. That's what's symptomatic of these stories, that there's always something sneaky behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006143535	Then it's Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006143547	Thank you very much. In the Enhedslisten you care a lot about the groups that have a low income, at least the groups that receive income from the state. But I rather miss Mrs Pernille Skipper's social indignation in relation to the groups who are just getting along in the labour market and who are helping to pay for cash benefits. my friend in North Jutland, who has a small cleaning company with her partner. They took a vacation two years ago. At that time it was 12 years since they had last been on vacation. They have an annual cost of physical therapy of approx. 12,000 kroner. They have to, because the work they have is physically hard. This year, the tax burden is rising again, up to 47.6%. This corresponds to a family of four to about 18,000 kroner. What's my friend gonna do? Is it important for Enhedslisten with these people who contribute and who help pay for the cash benefits? How are they going to make it happen, and where is the social indignation on their behalf?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006143646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006143650	Well, I would like to read out my speech one more time for Mrs Merete Riisager. Because when Enhedslisten talks about ensuring security for people affected by unemployment, it is not only because of those who do not have a job. Then it is also because of the low-paid who may be at risk of getting the bill one day, or who, because they have a hard physical job, may become worn out or ill early and therefore need a strong community to seize. That is what is so beautiful about the Danish welfare state. It's that this is something we all give to each other. It is security for all of us, because we, high as low, may need the community and, incidentally, we all benefit from it if we have good kindergartens, good hospitals, proper care for the elderly. This also applies to those who work hard in the low-paid jobs. We would very much like to lighten the tax for those who earn the least and are in work. We will. What Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance disagree on is whether we get anything good at all from giving even more to those who have already gained more and more in the last many years, namely the top of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006143756	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006143800	But there is no one here at all who disagrees that there must be good kindergartens and good hospitals and good schools. So we can sort of leave that alone and then concentrate on what we disagree on. Why is it that Mrs Pernille Skipper does not see that the tax burden, the total tax burden, of which the cash aid amounts to 25 billion? kr., also helps break the backs of people like my friend in North Jutland that if the tax burden rises, does she lack that money in her own budget? She's missing them, among other things. To be able to pay for her back to be okay. So why can't Mrs Pernille Skipper see that the tax burden is helping to break the backs of some of the people she should care about?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006143838	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006143842	It's like this microphone isn't working. My point is, of course, that it is a wrong society where, as a low wage, you have to save yourself in the event that your back sets out and strikes and can no longer do so. My point is precisely that the strong community ensures that if one day Mrs Merete Riisager's friend gets her back so bad that the low-paid, hard cleaning job is no longer an option, then we stand there and grab her. One would think that we agreed that we need the strong welfare system, but yet the Liberal Alliance will pull the curtain away under the welfare societies of the low-paid to give it to the top.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006143928	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006143936	Now the Enhedslisten tradition believes very much about inequality and things that make difference to different groups in the country, including cash benefits. There we can then understand that Enhedslisten is very much opposed to the cash benefits ceiling, which is the level that lies but will not tell what they want to put in place. You could say that about what you want. But you can then ask about some other areas and hear if we can then get a message about what Enhedslisten really means in relation to creating more equality if necessary. There may be different tax arrangements. It could, for example, be done. be a tax scheme for parental purchases, where a mother or a father can buy an apartment for his child and can have some tax advantages. Is this a system which the Enhedslist considers to be deeply unfair and which should be abolished immediately?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006144012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006144015	That is absolutely right. We have a policy that is very clear. The tax advantages that parents can benefit from if they buy apartments for their children, which help to encourage parents to buy in the already very heated housing market, especially in study towns, we would very much like to abolish, and then we would really like to spend the money to ensure that there are young people's homes, study homes, to which everyone has more access.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006144043	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006144046	I will then sign for a very clear answer. But just to be absolutely sure: The Enhedslisten is vertically opposed and thinks it is deeply unfair that you have a scheme where you as parents can get some tax advantages by buying an apartment for your children and thus giving the children an opportunity to enter to study or live in a place where you could not otherwise afford to be. That seems to Enhedslisten to be deeply unfair, and it is a system that should not be used and it should be abolished. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006144107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006144109	That is the perfectly clear position of Enhedslisten. Of course, we are not opposed to parents' purchases, but we are against the tax advantages that parents who can afford can benefit from if they buy an apartment for their children. The point is, of course, that if you take advantage of the tax advantages, you pass a bill on to other taxpayers. We don't think that's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006144129	Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006144136	Thank you. We have made a number of restrictions on foreigners, simply because it has been crucial for us to bring down the number of people coming to Denmark, and I am of course interested in how Enhedslisten will find himself in a situation if it is the case that there will be a red majority after a choice. The radical leader, sir. Morten Østergaard, has recently been very, very categorical and firm in this area, at least in the media, where he has said that one must and there I cannot really understand Enhedslisten in this way, and the rapporteur will not respond specifically to what one has of expectations. Will one just stand by if the power tips off that the Social Democrats want to conduct immigration policy across the middle, or will one demand something a little like the Radicals do?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006144217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006144220	The very clear expectation of the Enhedslisten is, firstly, that we will have the Prime Minister tilted by the stick next time, and that all the parties that are then included in a hopefully new majority, where the Danish People's Party is as far from influence as possible when it comes to foreign policy, will have an impact on the policy pursued. That's Enhedslisten's expectation. It is clear that when we look at the time during Helle Thorning-Schmidt and Bjarne Corydon, some moves took place in the wrong direction, especially when it comes to the increasing inequality, where the broad majority helped to pay for more tax cuts, which also benefited the top of society. We would very much like to avoid that. This is one of the things we have very, very much focused on. But the Enhedslisten will not go in with any ultimate demand, and Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen doesn't make me say this today either.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006144315	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006144318	I am, in effect, impressed by the way the rapporteur has drawn towards the centre. I can't believe there was going to be a day when the Radical Left was more solid in the flesh than the Enhedslisten in this area. I think that is indeed a break in Danish politics. I would like to ask the rapporteur something: is there a limit at the Enhedslisten on how many asylum seekers can be accepted in Denmark? Where is that border? From our point of view, we believe that we have long since exceeded that limit.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006144346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006144350	Of course, there is some limit you can imagine. We cannot accept a million people in Denmark. So, of course, there is some limit, but we just haven't reached it. We as a society can accommodate the people who have arrived, and we can also accommodate 500 or perhaps 600 quota refugees. That is simply not what is doing it. What we can do better is to make sure that we integrate those people so that they become part of our society, so that they will speak our language and become part of the community and can contribute, and I understand the Danish People's Party does not want that, and that is perhaps why the Danish People's Party continues to accept that the bill for the many new citizens, because of course it costs, is passed on to the local community's close welfare, the elderly care, the kindergartens. Maybe we could go back together and change that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006144435	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006144450	Denmark needs optimism, enthusiasm and initiative, because we are facing two major crises that we need to address: the growth crisis and the migration crisis. I know that the expectation is that my whole speech will be about top tax. But that's not how it's gonna be. Even if some people think that the Liberal Alliance has crawled high up really high! And I'm willing to admit it. We are. We're crawled up real high. Because sometimes it may be a good idea to see things from above a little, so you don't get lost in detail and tactics, but instead see things in a larger perspective. When you look at the big picture, Denmark is unfortunately in the middle of the two crises I was just talking about: a growth crisis and a migration crisis. I also mentioned this in my speech at the end of the parliamentary debate at the beginning of June. It was true then, and it is today. But maybe there are bright spots. In any case, there are plenty of opportunities to emerge from both crises, perhaps not from one day to the next, but if we make an effort, if we choose the wisest solutions, if we make the best decisions. Denmark is one of the richest countries in the world. We should be pleased about this, but we should also be aware that it has not come about by itself. We stand on the shoulders of past generations' work. From the end of the 1800s until the crisis in 2008, Denmark had an average economic growth of 2%. a year, that is, more than 100 years of growth. From 2008 to 2015, Danish GDP decreased by 0.4 per cent. During the same period, Sweden increased by 11%. If we do not do something about it, the Danes will experience less prosperity than the Swedes and the Germans, the individual will have fewer opportunities, and it will be difficult to keep up with our hospital and educational system. Fortunately, we know what works to boost growth, and what seems best is a reduction in top tax. In fact, it should be removed completely, but you could start by just reducing it by 5 percentage points for everyone. Some reject it as a simple solution, a snapshot solution. But try to think about it a little more. Are solutions getting better because they're complicated? When you see the government's proposals for housing taxation, for tax cuts at the bottom or the so-called ACE model, it looks mostly like a fierce competition to become the year's bureaucrat 2016. After all, there is no human being who can explain these things. It is reminiscent of a Storm P. machine, where all sorts of handles, handles, centrifuges, hooks and hoisting must help to produce a fair result. Not even the European Commission would be able to propose something that was more complicated, so perhaps it could be made simpler. Of course it can. We should, of course, embark on further reductions in tax both on top and bottom, we should continue to work to get rid of the registration tax altogether, and we should cut a proper piece of corporate tax. There is so much that we should do and that we know works according to common methods of calculation. But there are no 90 seats in the Folketing behind it. You have to admit that's right. But why isn't there, since we all know in here that it works? The majority of spending in this Things is in the process of the greatest generation theft of Danish history. Unbridled looseness is used with the result that growth is inhibited and the next generations will not experience the same prosperity that we have otherwise experienced in Denmark for more than 100 years. The only obstacle to resolving the growth crisis is that we lack the 90 mandates mentioned above in the Folketing. Liberal Alliance will be happy to bring the 13 first. I have also noticed that others are concerned about the issue, the government, for example, but if we do not have the last seats, it is the last of the Danes that will suffer. For the rich, the smart and the healthy will be fine. It is the weak, the sick, the old who fall victim to the fear of growth and over-consumption in the public sector, and that is both sin and shame. We are not just in a growth crisis. As I started by saying, we are also facing a migration crisis. We have felt it a lot in recent years. More than 14,000 asylum seekers in 2014, over 21,000 asylum seekers in 2015. That is too many, and the blue parties have tried to do something about it together. I understand that people are going to Europe for a better life. I understand people are running from war. But to the first we have to say that they must be welcome if they have a contract with a Danish company or they must stay at home. And in relation to those fleeing war in Syria, we must take on the character of true humanists and realise that we can help far, far more in the neighbourhood than we can here in Denmark. At the same time, there are problems for municipalities, housing associations, schools to keep up with the number coming. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance have proposed a humane moratorium on asylum. We are helping both more and more people in the neighbourhood. We want to continue to take quota refugees and we reduce the challenge of integration. But why all this when the number of asylum seekers has fallen this year in both Denmark and Europe? Because it can very easily be a temporary fall. The population of Africa is still increasing; the EU's agreement with Turkey is faltering. The ideal solution is, of course, European. We want strong external borders around the European Union, but until sustainable, lasting European solutions are created, national solutions are needed. We are facing two crises: a growth crisis and a migration crisis. There are solutions, it's actually just getting started. Well, just to make it clear here at the end: the Liberal Alliance expects the government and Prime Minister to honour the ambition of lowering the top tax by 5 percentage points all the way up by the end of the year. We like to throw down a rope ladder so that others can come up to see how good an idea it really is. But the position is unchanged, the mood is in the top, and the desire to get growth going and take care of our country is full-blown.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006145315	That speech cast off a number of brief remarks. First, it's sir. Mr. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006145320	I had just brought my calendar, because it has turned out several times that the Liberal Alliance has set some pretty ultimate deadlines which have then been moved. There was something about Constitution Day that turned into Christmas and stuff like that. We can then spare ourselves that calendar exercise, because I see that Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll hasn't brought his calendar on the platform either. That would also be quite unreasonable. That's it, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, that's good. But I understand that you are holding onto a deadline called Christmas, and I shall then understand that it is Christmas this year. My question must in itself simply be that if we now get clear and clear from Mr Beazley's question, then we shall be able to do so. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's rapporteur has been able to say that there is not and there is not going to be a majority for the ultimate demands of the Liberal Alliance, what then?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006145412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006145415	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht is right that you can always see what it is like today, but you cannot actually know what it will be like. Look out the window, I'd like to say to Mr. Knox. Benny Engelbrecht, overcast. There is today, there is still today, but that does not mean that there will be no cloudless and high sun another day. So I'm not buying the premise for Mr. Benny Engelbrecht's question is that, as it is today, it is as it continues to be. Well, sir, that's what I'm supposed to do. Benny Engelbrecht as a Social Democrat was really the first to realise, for the former Prime Minister, Helle Thorning-Schmidt, had a number of promises before the 2011 elections and told us that the Radical Left had no influence after the 2011 elections. But hey, then there was a parliamentary election, and everything that existed before the elections did not apply after the elections. So yes, there can be cloudless and high sun and top tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006145510	Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006145513	I have to understand, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl apparently is comparing with a thunderstorm in the universe of the Liberal Alliance. I just need to get this straight: Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, that is, that the Danish People's Party will be different after a parliamentary election, if one comes around Christmas time?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006145532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006145535	I don't think there's gonna be a parliamentary election around Christmas time. I believe that there will be a 2025 agreement backed by the four bourgeois parties, perhaps by more. For us, it is good that others are involved, even if they are partial agreements, but I think we will find each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006145552	Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006145557	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur can tell me how much marginal tax will be reduced by 90%. of top tax payers earning less than 1 million. kr., if you complete the presentation the government has made to a comprehensive plan for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006145615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006145618	You could at least say that if we look at the top tax part alone, it is 5 percentage points. There may be other things in it. I do not have the details, and the rapporteur must apologise for this, because of course I still need more information. But the point is that we made an agreement with the Prime Minister about what was necessary for the Prime Minister to become Prime Minister and that Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen's other Left colleagues were allowed to become ministers. We intend to keep that agreement, and we assume the Prime Minister does. More complicated, it's not really in our world picture.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006145656	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006145700	But Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll not that it is a good idea to lower marginal tax by 5%. for the 90%. of top tax payers earning between 0.5 and 1 million. kr. And as I put it before from the platform, are some employees that you are quite dependent on in many Danish workplaces?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006145718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006145721	That part is a good idea, but Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen and the other Liberals who have signed up on the list of speakers, I am looking forward to having them on board too, that it is not a good idea for political parties to abide by the agreements they make? That's what we in the Liberal Alliance think.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006145734	Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006145742	It is clear that the Liberal Alliance has a common thread in relation to the need to reduce the top tax by 5 percentage points and that it must be all the way up and, as I understand it, there is also a common thread in relation to the need to clarify whether this is adopted or not by 1 January 2017. But does the Liberal Alliance have a common thread compared to when this reduction in top tax should be phased in?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006145814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006145818	We leave that to the discussions we have with our political friends in the blue block.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006145821	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006145823	I am delighted to hear that reply from Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, because that means that there can be an incredible amount of time before the desire of the Liberal Alliance to reduce the top tax is actually phased in. When you look at the government we have at the moment, which has to be said to be quite shaky, it will probably not be long before a new majority comes to power here in Denmark. And then I can say that on the part of the Enhedslisten, one of the first things we are going to propose will certainly be to roll back a possible reduction in the top tax, which the Liberal Alliance has fought very hard to implement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006145858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006145901	Now, I really want to make Mr. Knox happy. Rune Lund. But, first of all, I do not think we should imagine that it will be an excessively long phase-in period. Secondly, I think it should be expected that there will be a degree of stability in the Danish people's government and in support of the government once we have managed the issue of top tax relief. Thirdly, I believe that Mr. Rune Lund must be careful not to look too forward to how the Social Democrats will react. Because we could understand from Mrs Mette Frederiksen that for example. The registration fee is not intended to propose its withdrawal again, and it was also against it. And if it doesn't end that way with the top tax reliefs.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006145939	Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006145948	Now, the rapporteur and I were here the other day at the same meeting on the new housing tax package, and I saw that we had a relative disagreement on some of the conditions for us to be satisfied, but, on the other hand, we also agreed that we were very different on this point. There I think there is a welcome thing about the Liberal Alliance's approach to housing taxes, because it is very clear what you mean and what society you want. I would just like to ask the rapporteur if he can confirm that the housing tax package that has been put forward is welcome for the Liberal Alliance, among other things. because one accepts a greater inequality in society. We heard the former rapporteur of the Left say that there would be a small inequality, but in my view it is quite a great inequality that is being set up by introducing it here. We have seen good elements in the package, but we simply cannot see ourselves joining a package of such great inequality. Is it correct to understand that there is a fairly large inequality in the scenario we have seen?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006150042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006150044	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... René Gade can understand what the Liberal Alliance's approach to that housing package is. I am not sure that I myself have understood all the elements of it yet, but it is nice that we can then get some help from the alternative. I think that, as a prerequisite for my answer, I have to say that I do not believe that there are problems with economic inequality in Denmark. Denmark is a very equal country, and even if we were to become a little less economically equal, it would be no problem at all. On the other hand, it will be a problem if we do not create the dynamism, the optimism and the growth that means that we can afford to have a proper society in the future and to offer proper life opportunities. But for us, it's about people being able to live in their own homes without being taxed too hard. I actually thought that the alternative was also enthusiastic about that idea, but that is where I learned the opposite from Mr. René Gade, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006150146	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006150147	In the alternative, we don't want anyone to go from house to home either. We just think that it is a prerequisite when we go out and make a housing tax package that we do not in the old way give an advantage to those who have just a dwelling, because then we disregard those who are tenants and those who live in cooperative housing. So my question is again: is it at this stage, and with the lack of calculations, which must now be made here in the next few days, the rapporteur's view that this housing tax package is actually a significant benefit to those who live in an owner's residence rather than to those who do not, thereby creating an increase in inequality in society?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006150233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006150234	I think I might be able to make an explanation that can also be transferred to the same type of question in other subjects. If you make some changes that make someone who should have paid something no longer have to pay it, then it benefits those who should have paid it. That is how it will be, even if we change the subject and imagine other situations where there are some who do not have to pay what they should have paid. Then it will be an advantage. You can't get around that. But I still don't understand why it doesn't bother Mr. Knox. René Gade and the alternative that there are people who today find it difficult to stay in their homes because of the housing tax system there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006150314	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006150316	I'd like to ask Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll about something he usually doesn't get so many questions about, namely part of public spending. There, in the Liberal Alliance, opinions are primarily about how big they should be, but it is not quite trivial how public expenditure is spent. It is the case that the first financial law passed by the majority that is now planned massive savings in the field of education. It has also been incorporated into the government's overall plan and will result in savings of EUR 5-10 billion in education in the coming years, when all is taken into account. I have heard this, and you can hear it as a bit of an outcry, not least from the Danish business community, that it is simply untenable that when what we have to live on in the future is skilled hands and heads, it is not acceptable to pursue an economic policy where you are so busy agreeing on everything else that you completely miss investing in the skills of the next generation. That is why my question to the Liberal Alliance is this: was it not time that we also started to take an interest in what is going on in the public sector and that some of the things that can actually contribute to some of the growth we are talking about so much and thus stop adding votes to cuts in education to the extent that we have seen?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006150434	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006150436	Firstly, we are very concerned about other issues, including education. That is why we secured more support for free and private schools in connection with the relevant financial law. We are very concerned about the possibility of opting for an alternative to primary school. Is it our wish that education should be spared? No, actually, it's not. But it is our wish that the administration in the field of education should be spared, that is what we stand by, and we have no problem with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006150509	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006150513	I should just like to understand that this is, in other words, a blue stamp on what has been put forward by the government, which plans to save somewhere between 5 and 10 billion in the coming years, depending on how long it is estimated that the contribution will be re-priority, in secondary schools, vocational training, in all higher education, vocational academies, professional colleges which train teachers and educators, and universities which train everything from the engineers to the teachers we need. So the Liberal Alliance is labeling the billions of savings on the grounds that they are simply meant to be found in the sector itself. I just ask you: if you listen to the obvious desire in business to have lower taxes at work, why do you not listen to the desire that you invest more in education instead of sawing in the branch on which our children sit?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006150558	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006150559	I think, sir. Morten Østergaard heard wrong, if it sounded like I was typing anything. What we want is to keep the savings from education and, on the other hand, to make savings from administration. That is what we want. And then we want to invest in research, for which we went to the polls. It can be said that we were not very lucky in the Finance Act that was last year, we honestly acknowledge that. But now we have been criticized six months for being too hard in the felt when we negotiate, and when one time there is a place where it went the opposite way of what we wanted, we have to recognise that this can actually happen, and it happened there, and that is the way it is. However, we will fight for more investment in research to be made in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006150642	Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006150645	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. Today, of course, can also be a good opportunity to see if you can find yourself some alliance partners on various issues. After all, we share the view of the Liberal Alliance, at least in substance, when it comes to top tax. Then I just want to make sure that we are now going, if not hand in hand, but then in common with a desire that when it comes to the housing owners' relationship, the security of the homeowners, the fight against the totally rising ground debt, we have something to address in 2017, in 2018, in 2019 and in 2020, which is also part of what we need to talk about and do something about before we start talking about a new system from 2021 onwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006150729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006150730	I can promise that if the Conservative People's Party goes hand in hand with the Liberal Alliance in relation to the top tax, then the Liberal Alliance will go hand in hand with the Conservative People's Party in relation to housing taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006150748	Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006150749	If we do not go hand in hand with overthrowing the government, can we still agree to go hand in hand with securing the landowners?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006150802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006150803	I understand, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen is pretty crazy about holding my hand. But having said that, I would like to say that we stand, if not hand in hand, shoulder to shoulder in relation to fighting the cause of homeowners. We would very much like to help the Conservative People's Party with this, and we have always had the view that the other blue parties should know that the Liberal Alliance should have something on top tax. And we have had the expectation that the three blue parties, including ourselves, should know that the Conservative People's Party should have something in the area of housing. Because we are actually listening to the other support parties, and then we also hope that they will start listening to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006150846	Then it's Mrs Christine Antorini.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006150848	Thank you. I noticed with what poetry Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll started by saying: Yes, we are sitting right up in the tallest tree where there is blue sky and the sun shines, and we would like to throw down a rope ladder so that someone can crawl up to us and join in voting for exactly the Liberal Alliance's model of top tax relief that goes to the very richest Danes. And I'm just so curious to know who the Liberal Alliance is imagining is going to crawl up that rope ladder, which is so generously being rolled down from that tall tree. Is it the Danish People's Party? Because I understand that it is the bourgeois who must vote through the Liberal Alliance's proposal. I haven't heard the Danish People's Party be super excited about that particular idea. Is it the Social Democrats? No, I can answer. We have no idea of supporting it at all. So my question is, who is it that the Liberal Alliance wants to climb the rope ladder to ensure exactly the Liberal Alliance model? And if the Liberal Alliance has no good ideas for that, one must understand that the party is ready to issue elections for New Year then it is the rapporteur) or rather ask the Prime Minister to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006150952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006150954	Yeah, 'cause I can't print elections! First of all, I wasn't talking about any tree. It's just to make it clear. It is a good viewing post, where you have the big perspective instead of falling into the small details. And secondly, we have not asked anyone to do any of the Liberal Alliance's top tax model is to abolish the entire duvet on 1 January 2017. That's the Liberal Alliance model. We have already given ourselves two thirds and said: we can only reduce the top tax by five percentage points all the way up. And I think I already said in my previous speech that I imagine that this will happen in cooperation with the blue parties, but if social democracy, like in the past, has to change its attitude towards top tax, we can also make top tax concessions with the Social Democratic Party. We have nothing against Social Democratic votes to make top tax concessions, and I know that as recently as this decade, the Social Democrats have also had no objection to pressing the green button for top tax relief. So maybe you should be a little less stubborn.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151106	Thank you. Then it's Mrs Christine Antorini.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151107	One of the things that has puzzled me about the Liberal Alliance is that it makes no impression at all that among those like the Liberal Alliance, one has to understand, talking to those who have a great deal of money, the top of industry, the business community, nobody has asked for just the top tax concessions of the Liberal Alliance. DI held a summit last week and there was the message quite clear: that is not what is important for Denmark now; it is that we are actually investing in skills raising, in research, in everything that provides development. But what we must understand does not impress the Liberal Alliance at all, that is to say, those they think they are helping say that this is not what is needed. But now the rapporteur skilfully avoided answering the question of the Danish People's Party climbing this rope ladder. It is the blue parties that are going to vote for the top tax credit that will happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151156	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151157	In fact, I replied to the question that came after the end of the first round of speaking time. This can be seen in the minutes, if you are interested in it, then, genuine interest. In relation to who wants it, and for whose sake we do so, I would say that in the first seven years I represented the Liberal Alliance in here, I have been stabbed in the nose, that we did everything because of our sponsors. Now we are told that all those who should be our supporters say otherwise. I do not know if that is quite right, but if it is a real prerequisite for the issue, then we must have been cleared of the previous accusation that we are just doing what is being said. We're doing this for the Danes. We do it for the Danes, so we get growth in Denmark, so we get better education, so we get better hospitals, so we get better prospects for the future. It's for the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151247	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151249	Thank you. So far, it sounds like the Liberal Alliance is going to support the government in the government's housing tax plan. However, when the cause will be drastically increased for apartments, especially in large cities, part of it will be passed on to the tenants. That's why I'd like to ask Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, if he thinks it is reasonable that the tenants, who are not getting anything out of this agreement, should in some cases pay massively more in rent so that we can spend 24 billion. kr. On the landowners.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151329	Now I can hear that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has thoroughly entered the housing package and great respect for the fact that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has apparently caught that the tenants have to pay massively more in rent. Can we elaborate on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151346	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151347	Part of the debt will be transferred to the tenants unless all the landlords in this country are altruists, and I don't think so. That's how it goes. And that's why I just want to hear you and now we don't have to talk about the housing package specifically, but I'd like in principle to talk about the Liberal Alliance, it would be fair for the tenants in this country, and there are a million of them, with such a policy having to pay much more than they do today. Is that basically okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151425	In principle, we do not want anyone to pay more, but we believe that there has been a distortion between homeowners and apartment residents in recent years. But we have no principle that someone has to pay more. If Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has ever heard a representative of the Liberal Alliance want someone to pay more in tax, then I would like the name of that person.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151449	Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151452	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by saying that I do not think there will be any choice either. I am reasonably convinced that the Liberal Alliance will relax their demands in the end. But I still have a few practical questions on which I think it would be good for the Folketing to be informed. I am sitting here in the rear row puffing a little with some employment policy and some education policy and some foreign policy, and I have a feeling that in some areas things have come to a halt because we are awaiting the great battle at a table that I do not have access to, which has been stabbed because the Liberal Alliance has an ultimate demand. So I have a few practical questions, just to get some clarification. I understand from the rapporteur that if not all top tax payers pay 5 percentage points less in top tax, and if there is no clarification by New Year, then the Liberal Alliance will overturn the government. Does this mean that when we meet for the first time after New Year on 10 January 2017, the Liberal Alliance will support a motion of censure, that is, if there is not a 5 percentage points reduction in the top tax for all?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151608	Well, there's nothing changed in the position.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151613	Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151614	There is just one follow-up practical question: will it be the case that the Liberal Alliance itself puts that motion of censure and that the rest of us should then come down here and vote in favour?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151624	That's actually a good question. I didn't get that far in the internship. It doesn't really matter who puts it. The answer is that it's going to happen, but whoever does it, I don't know. And the reason why I have perhaps not concentrated so much on the practical detail is that I am quite sure that we will not get there at all. I think we will have an agreement between the blue parties that reduces the top tax by 5 percentage points all the way up. I feel absolutely convinced of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151653	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151655	Thank you very much. I think it is a very, very strange logic to cut back on education and research and SU support for students in order to afford more tax cuts for the richest Danes. It is certainly very nice for the few who get a rich man's discount, but the Liberal Alliance argues that it will create growth and employment. I would just like to say that I think it is extremely uncertain and very optimistic, in other words that tax relief will have the positive effect. At the same time, we know that education and research are something that creates opportunities and freedom and is an obvious source of growth and employment in our society. I would like to hear from the Liberal Alliance and the rapporteur whether it has been calculated what it will cost our society if the cuts mean that fewer young people receive education or that they take a shorter education.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151751	First of all, we know that tax cuts are giving rise to growth. There is no doubt about that, we do not need to discuss it. Secondly, I think that the questioner should perhaps expand his vocabulary a little, so that, in addition to savings, efficiency is also brought into the vocabulary. I have just had the pleasure of being appointed as a state auditor, and on that occasion I was at an event on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the secretariat of the state auditors. There they could tell that once there were very many people employed in the secretariat of the state auditors, and now there are only three. It is because they have got computers that they are now only three. Because now they can put up the booklets themselves, they can write things down themselves, there doesn't have to be ladies to what was then. I'm sorry, I don't mean to be sexist or anything, but it was ladies. The point is that you can streamline and get more out of the money, which means you don't have to spend nearly as much money on something that you used to spend a lot of money on. And in the field of education in particular, that is what I said earlier: we want to save on administrative expenditure.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151902	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151903	So, all schools and researchers etc. is out pointing out that you cannot cut too many billions without it having an impact on quality, of course it does. And I think most schools and universities already have computers, so there's probably not that much to pick up there. No, what I want to hear about is that just last week we heard an independent research panel say that if you cut the SU, it will probably mean that fewer people take an education, that fewer people complete, and that more people choose to take a short education. You can also see that is a problem in, for example. Norway. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur: has it been calculated at all what can be caused by socio-economic consequences when such cuts are made here?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151946	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006151947	I think a lot of things are mixed up now. Well, I didn't say I knew the climax of technological development. I believe that technological development is continuing and that it will be more successful than it has been in the past. In any case, this has been the case for many years, so I wonder if it will continue to do so. Moreover, we have not tabled an SU proposal. It's the government. We say we are open to discussing it, and we have noticed that students can get more money in their hands than they can with the current system, even if they do not get so much in direct support while there are more loans. So we have to look at that, and we are discussing this with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006152025	Then it's Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006152026	After all, the rapporteur himself, in his 2025 plan, has proposed zero growth in public consumption and a 10% improvement in public productivity up to 2025. If you look at the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance, they show that this will mean that we will have to reduce the public sector by what is equivalent to one in ten public employees up to 2025. Does the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur think that it is reasonable to fire 1 in 10 public employees in order to afford top tax relief for the 1,000 richest in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006152110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006152111	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006152114	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006152116	Well, if the rapporteur does not think that it is reasonable, how can it be that the Liberal Alliance continues to climb the tree and so stubbornly hold on to the fact that top tax relief is more important than providing good schools, ensuring good home care and ensuring that we can afford proper welfare in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006152138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006152139	I think there are some misunderstandings with Mrs Trine Bramssen. First of all, therefore, we need to make money before we can spend it, and that is what the Liberal Alliance is relatively concerned about. Secondly, we will not fire anyone in the public sector; we will reduce the number of employees in the public sector by natural departure. That's different. Thirdly, the microscopic desire of the Liberal Alliance for these 2025 negotiations costs around 900 million. kr. It is nothing compared to all the billions that just rolled out of the mouth of Mrs Trine Bramssen. So it is not true that we will do all this to get 900 million. kr. The 900 million. kr. I have also understood from some of our friends that it is not the money that is the problem. Then what the hell is it when we know it works?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006152231	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006152233	The rapporteur said at the outset that he thought there were two crises in the world: a growth crisis and a migration crisis, or perhaps it was only in the country of origin. I don't know. Then he compared economic growth to prosperity. I heard well before that the rapporteur replied that it was a lot of things at the same time, but now the economy is a tiny bit complicated, and even highly educated people should know that. I would like to say that there is also a climate crisis, and there is also a moral crisis, to the best of my knowledge, but I will come back to that another time when we have time for it. However, with regard to the climate crisis, we have to say that growth and prosperity are not the same. Growth can be blind economic growth, but it can also be sustainable development, where we think about the sustainability of the planet and the sustainability of people. I would remind the rapporteur that we actually have 60 000 people who lose their health every year because of the way we make growth in Denmark and because of the way we run our jobs. This is a very, very extensive way of driving economic growth. If it is to be upgraded, it will be really, really expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006152343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006152344	I do not know if I heard any questions in the speech that Mr. Christian Juhl, but I would say that growth is good because it creates wealth. Growth is good because it creates better opportunities for those who have the least. Growth is good because it allows for better education. Growth is good because it allows us to have some operations that our parents and our grandparents could only dream of, and they ended up dying of the diseases that are being cured of today. If we had not had growth for more than 100 years in this country, we would not be one of the richest countries in the world today. And if we do not grow in the next 100 years, we will not be one of the richest countries in the world in 100 years' time, thereby creating some very boring conditions for the life that the next and the next and the subsequent generation will live. It's on our shoulders, I'd say to Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl, that responsibility rests, and I think we are obliged to make sure to travel this country as much as our parents, grandparents and great-grandparents have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006152449	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006152450	I am a little sorry to disappoint the rapporteur. So we have come to a point in development where we are tipped off. We must bear in mind that the growth and the perception of economic growth that our ancestors had has worn out so much on the planet that we now have to slow down and say: we can only accept economic growth if it is also sustainable, if the planet can survive and if people can survive within that framework. In other words, we need to make qualitative demands on that growth. And growth does not automatically go into welfare. Depends on how to distribute the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006152527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006152528	When I was a big boy, I took a book out of my father's bookshelf called "Growth Guidelines." It predicted that a number of different raw materials would be run out. The only problem with that book is that it has not happened, and the only thing that this book has contributed is that the pages have later been used to light up the stove at home with my father. Because that book wasn't worth the paper it was written on. Of course, we must take climate challenges seriously. Of course, we must support with research and technology development. However, we must not fall into the trap of saying that it should be at the expense of growth and increased prosperity, because if we do so, we risk our children and grandchildren, descendants, having less opportunities for life than Swedes and Germans and others, and that would be stupid and irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006152620	Then it's mr. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006152621	Thank you. I will take the rapporteur back to the presentation of the 2025 plan and a quote from the Prime Minister on that occasion. The quote is as follows: If someone else thinks the most important thing is to make sure that the bank manager with 10 million. kr. In terms of wages, they must have a tax relief all the way up, so they must fight that cause. It's not my business. ▪ I understand from the recent debate, however, it is a matter for the Liberal Alliance to lower the top tax on the most wealthy. However, will the rapporteur not explain why the Liberal Alliance believes it is absolutely essential that the thousand richest Danes should have a tax relief of DKK 300,000. instead of, for example, lightening the tax burden on those who earn the least.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006152705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006152707	Well, it's not a either or. The Liberal Alliance has gone to the polls for no one who goes to work to pay taxes on the first DKK 7,000. or 84,000 kroner per month. a year. This is an important issue for us in the Liberal Alliance. We will also fight in the 2025 negotiations for relief at the bottom. When we are so aware of it with the limit of 1 million, it is probably for exactly the reasons that the Left was against the millionaire tax before the 2011 election, namely because we are fighting the jantelovssociety, where you think that those who earn the most should not only pay more money it is fair enough but also have to have an extra stupid penalty in addition to the top tax. With the policy of the Liberal Alliance, it is the case that the one who earns 2 million. kr., pays 16 times as much in taxes as the one who makes 200,000 kr. Is it really so horrible and antisocial? I would like an answer to that from Mr. Kaare Dybvad's side, and that's what Mr. Kaare Dybvad the opportunity to answer now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006152810	Exactly. Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006152811	Thank you. I happened to be sitting with Sandemose's... a fugitive crossing his trail, and I have to inform Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll says that it has nothing to do with the economy that Sandemose doesn't like Nykøbing Mors. We can take that on another occasion. I would just like to ask whether it is reasonable for a tax relief to be made which, for a Gentofte citizen, gives a few thousand kroner or more, but for someone who lives on Langeland, it is a flat fifty. Is it really reasonable, especially when we look at how much enthusiasm one goes to the task of getting more people into work; making sure that there is longer between public benefits and wages?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006152846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006152847	I cannot be surprised that a social democrat is sitting with the jante law at his seat. Well, that's pretty obvious, isn't it? But I think we should throw out the jante law and instead get a country of optimism, of enthusiasm, of growth, of initiative. And we know from the Ministry of Finance, and we know from the former Finance Minister Bjarne Corydon, that relief in top tax is what is best for growth. And we need growth if we want to do better. I also thought that the Social Democrats, sorry, the Social Democratic Party was a growth party. In any case, it has been historical for some time, and I think we should find a way back to this, so that together we can make some solutions for the benefit of the Danes. And there are top tax concessions, which the Socialists have been pleased about in the past, of course, very important.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006152933	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006152934	I would really like to continue where my colleague, Mr President. Rune Lund, let go a little earlier, that's where these red lines for the Liberal Alliance go, because we've heard a lot about them. But I think that the stubborn gaze wandered a little over with Mr. Anders Samuelsen, when Mr. Rune Lund asked when these top tax reliefs should be phased in. I really think it is a little important that we have some clarity about this. So, is there no limit, or is what the rapporteur said a little later: there must not be too long? Is it 2025, is it 2030? Is this in this assembly? Is it within this reign? If you're going to negotiations, you're gonna have to have a limit. Otherwise, I think there are some who can get good ideas. So can we not get a clearer answer? I think that would be fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153036	Sir. Anders Samuelsen, look me in the eye. Do we agree that we're not flaking? Good. There's no wandering.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153046	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153047	Well, I think that the two honourable Members of the Liberal Alliance can agree on that. I also think it would be very good if I could get an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153100	Yes, but I'm not answering questions based on wrong assumptions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153104	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153110	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech, and thank you to the rapporteur for the rapporteur's involvement and good rhetoric in the platform. I'm so impressed, I must say. After all, the rapporteur speaks insanely for growth. It's pretty close to being convinced. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is simply: is it growth at the expense of everything? I say that growth is not at the expense of everything else, and I am of the opinion that growth can be at the expense of the environment. I think so, for example. We are now looking at the 2025 plan put forward by the government, and there are others in the world who say that if we do not take account of the environment now, it will actually be extra much more expensive in the long term that it is cheaper for us if we take account of the environment now. Then, in return, we can score a long-term gain, both in terms of better growth and in terms of better environment. Then there's nothing in that point too, sir. rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153208-2	Just to clear up any misunderstanding, I would like to say that the Liberal Alliance of course also thinks that we should look after the environment. Well, that goes without saying. We do not want to see legislation in place to ensure that, for example, we do not want it to be carried out. can't drink the water. Of course you have to think about it with the environment. I actually think we agree on that in broad terms in the Folketing. Then I would like to thank you for those nice words. It is just before that it is simply the number before top tax relief of 5%. all the way up that the group chairman of the alternative was almost convinced that growth was a good idea. I don't think it's gonna be any better today than that. I mean, nothing better can happen today. Unless some people go up and say that we now have 90 mandates to lighten the top tax, nothing better can happen today following that remark by Mrs Josephine Fock. Thank you very, very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153309	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153309-2	Thank you. My point is, of course, that I think that the rhetoric of the Liberal Alliance and the rhetoric of the rapporteur are about growth at the expense of everything else, is about growth at the expense of equality and is about growth at the expense of the environment. After all, I am surprised that the Liberal Alliance believes that the relief of petrol taxes is one of the things that can help save Denmark's future. In fact, I do not think the rapporteur is answering my question as to whether there is any point in doing anything good for the environment now. This also means that we save money in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153354	It's just very important that you don't sacrifice man. We are concerned about the way in which many of the weakest citizens are treated in our society. We can talk about drug addicts, we can talk about prostitutes, we can talk about homeless people, we can talk about some of the most vulnerable children. We can talk about that Denmark is actually not very good at social mobility with this much-loved welfare state. It doesn't really help much. What is needed to help all those people is that there is economic space and the possibility that companies can take greater responsibility, that citizens can take greater responsibility and that associations can take greater responsibility. There is growth. Growth is not the goal, growth is the prerequisite for human happiness.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153442	Sir. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153443	It has been very, very exciting to hear Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll explains the reasonableness of giving top tax relief to the richest in Denmark. Will Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll did not explain how much a director earns 20 million. kr. per year, according to the plan of the Liberal Alliance, if Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll to make sure there are blue clouds and sunshine coming all over the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153525	I don't want to. Well, I don't want to, 'cause sir knows that. Nicolai Wammen well, and I do not think we should have such debates here in the Folketing, where you ask questions to which you know the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153539	Sir. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153540	Well, I think it's interesting about sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll actually believes that it is reasonable for a director who may earn 20 million. kr. a year, must have a tax relief in the million-dollar class, while this Parliament has decided that the single mother should lose 2,600 kroner. a month. Is that fair from the point of view of the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153612	We are back on the question of whether some, if you make some changes, where they do not have to pay what they have paid up to now, will get more money for themselves. The answer is yes. This also applies to single mothers who go to work and who will benefit from the Liberal Alliance's proposal that you should not pay tax on the first DKK 7.000. a month, that is, 84,000 kroner. a year. This also applies to single mothers who pay top taxes because they are there as well. After all, it is not only impoverished women, as the Socialists imagine, who are single mothers in the present. This may have been the case when the Social Democratic Party had its time of greatness.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153649	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153650	Thank you. Now, unfortunately, I'm not in possession of sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll's undeniable talent, but I just have to say that I did not understand what it was that made Pelle Dragsted's question unanswerable. Well, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll himself said that the phasing-in of the top tax relief, the total top tax relief with the 5%. All the way up, didn't have to take too long. It wasn't supposed to be too long. And then the question is, what does that mean? So says Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, that one cannot answer the pre-conditions was wrong or something. I just don't understand. I mean, are we talking about this parliamentary term? Are we talking within the 2025 plan, or are we talking on the other side of the 2025 plan? It must be relatively easy to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153752	I would also like to congratulate Mr. Søren Søndergaard's talent and eloquence. But what I said to Mr. Knox... Pelle Dragsted wasn't about that question. It was about the fact that sir... Pelle Dragsted had a good eye on Mr. Anders Samuelsen, and that's something else entirely. However, if we are to return to the question, I cannot stand here and say: Should it be 1 January 2017, should it be 6 June 2017 or 1 January 2018? After all, I also think there should be something to negotiate. It can't all be red lines and ultimate requirements. But that is in relation to lowering the top tax by 5 percentage points all the way up.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153838	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153839	I fully understand that Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll cannot do so, and that is why I specifically asked in another way. I asked: are we talking this parliamentary term? Are we talking within the framework of the 2025 plan, or are we talking on the other side of the 2025 plan? And Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll himself must have had some thought when Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll says it shouldn't be too long. Well, unless it was empty talk, there has to be some thought about what is meant by too long. Are we talking about this parliamentary term? Does it mean within the 2025 period? Or is it meant on the other side of the 2025 period?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153924	One can put it in that way that the most natural thing would be that it happened in a few years, just as I understand that the government is going to do with its plans. I guess that would be the most natural thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153937	As the last one asks, it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006153940	Thank you. Well, then there's one more chance that Mr. Knox... Simon Emil Ammitzbøll can answer the question. I would really like to talk about these top tax reliefs, because it looks like it's a little gibberish in Mr. Simpson's mind. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, every time we're some people who say that top tax relief is probably not the way to that chromed growth and the country where the sun always shines beautifully as it almost sounds when the Liberal Alliance speaks. Then it is sometimes possible to get an idea that neoliberals like Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll himself thinks top tax relief in the same way that AGF fans always think they will win next time. Top tax relief is not the way to growth. The last 20 to 30 years have been tried with taxes and tax cuts at the top. This has meant that a lot of money has been accumulated and inequality has increased. But growth has not increased. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006154047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006154048	I'm not so good at football metaphors, I'd like to start by apologizing. I've never been very talented in this. What is the point is that the Ministry of Finance has calculated these things: the Ministry of Finance, whose methods of calculating the Social Democrats seem to recognise a little while longer, which the SF recognised when they were in government and which all parties on the right in the Parliament hall do, but which the extreme left does not seem to be doing. And they say that there is no place where you get so much growth per. crown, which in the case of top tax reliefs • top tax reliefs. It may be that Mrs Pernille Skipper wants a new Ministry of Finance and some ultra-socialist methods of calculation, but that is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006154149	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006154150	What I want and I'm in on the football thing; it's okay, we can watch it on TV and everything else, fair enough, was that we got some realism into the discussion. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll just keeps standing and claiming that top tax relief automatically creates growth. So, hello, you remove the funding base for our public sector, and then you say it creates more welfare. That is a terrible, terrible nonsense, and it has been tried over the last 20 to 30 years. All that has happened is that inequality has grown and the top has gained more. You could be honest and say that's what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006154228	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006154229	So, as was said, hello, we know from the Ministry of Finance that top tax reliefs bring growth, most growth per person. crown. Hello, we know from the Economic Council that top tax relief brings growth. Hello, we actually know that Denmark is one of the most equal countries in the world. Halli hello, Enhedslisten will have to come back to the reality that all of us are in. It's no use just saying hello and then inventing your own facts. The world doesn't work that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006154303	Thank you, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. We're done with the Liberal Alliance, and we're moving on to Mr. Kim. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006154312	Hello, hello. And thank you for the floor. After hearing the Prime Minister's opening speech on Tuesday, I could not help thinking that we are so lacking in courage, we are lacking in innovation and we lack vision in Danish politics. With its 2025 plan, the government is really just doing what a government typically does when trying to increase economic space: prioritising the economic bottom line over social and environmental, economic growth over welfare, competitiveness over climate, and GDP over sustainable development. They turn down investment in the future, save a bit of education, save culture, lower development aid, cut social benefits and relax climate and environmental efforts. What do you do with the money? You give them as gifts to those who have the most. Fortunately, a small piece of work is given to entrepreneurs, and I would like to commend the government for that. Why do you do that? To preserve the existing, to ensure competitiveness, to create growth and to take care of Denmark as it is called. The problem is that the challenges of the future are not solved by cutting the things that have been crucial to Denmark being the success we are today through, for example. the strong social safety net, equal access to education and a truly forward-looking energy, climate and environmental policy. These things should not be cut down if we want to create development. One must invest in them, at least if the ambition is really to look after Denmark and give the next generation the same opportunities as ours. The Prime Minister said in his opening speech that the problems do not disappear because they are closed. That's a wise thing to say. He's absolutely right about this. When I read the 2025 plan, I still have the feeling that the government is overlooking some of the major challenges that we are facing right now and in the long term. This applies, in particular, to the inequality crisis and the climate crisis. We know that the richest 10%. in Denmark owns more than 70%. of the population together do. Nevertheless, the government will continue with a ceiling on cash aid, which will initially make 33 000 people poorer, just as it will introduce a tax reform which will further increase the gap between rich and poor. We also know that Denmark has a relatively high CO2 2 These conditions can no one close their eyes to, nor can the government, which has committed itself to reducing both inequality and CO2 and we expect Denmark of course to live up to them. Of course, all parties must give priority to what they want, but the fact that the Prime Minister is talking about solving the most important challenges in the future, but in the same vein completely refrain from talking about the climate crisis, the greatest threat to our planet and our society, is a bit like standing in the middle of a burning house and discussing the color of the curtains with the finance minister instead of putting out the fire. This simply does not make sense, although the Minister for Finance probably has very good taste in the case of curtains. In addition to the desire for a more serious debate on climate and the crisis of inequality, the Alternative also lacks a fundamental discussion on how to organise the public sector and, above all, how to organise it for posterity. The competitive state logic, which today has spread to almost every corner of the public sector, has long since been bankrupt in our optics. On the one hand, it has increased the number of stressed, worn out and discontented citizens, and on the other hand, more and more public employees are finding that requirements for control and registration restrict them from doing their job. We must take this seriously. There are no teachers, educators, cops, nurses and social workers or SOSU assistants who have chosen their jobs because they dream of taking time on themselves or setting crosses. They have chosen it because they dream of creating security for our elderly, caring for our sick, learning for our young people and caring for our children. Those dreams deserve to be legged instead of being buried in bureaucracy and meaningless registration. It is clear that if one is forced to spend an hour every day registering oneself, the joy of work is stifled in control. That is why we would like to call on the Alternative to make it a completely bottom-up task here in the Folketing to find ways of debureaucratising the public sector and introducing confidence that allows managers and employees to be free to carry out the work that they have actually agreed to in the first place. If you move a little further and actually right up into the helicopter perspective, where you can look beyond the political landscape as we see it, you can say that right now Denmark is in the middle of what you can call the perfect political storm. In recent years, one crisis has followed and intensified the other: the inequality crisis, the financial crisis, the climate crisis, etc. The latest is what some people call a refugee crisis, but which is really a political crisis. Crisis of that size will always push us on several fronts, both globally, nationally and locally. However, we must not forget that these crises bring with them as many opportunities as challenges. That is why we can rightly talk about the fact that the crises together constitute a perfect political storm that forces us to gather all our creativity in order to kick-start a new wave of innovation that can make us more entrepreneurial. That is what we need to use the crises for, namely as an opportunity to think progressive, wild, visionary, as a unique opportunity to imagine a significantly different society. Because, because of the many crises, we have precisely the opportunity to create a friendly revolution, because new ideas are needed in our society. We have the opportunity to invent a new economic model, working not only with an economic bottom line but also with a social and environmental one. We have the opportunity to create a more sustainable tax system in which we lower taxes on labour, on returns on entrepreneurial investment and on organic food, raise them on housing, wealth, pollution and financial transactions. We have the opportunity to develop a better employment effort where we spend the money from bureaucracy and control on more targeted advice and support and on introducing a basic benefit without counter-requirements. We have the opportunity to introduce a 30-hour working week so that we do something about the stress epidemic, open up the labour market to more unemployed people, and ensure that children's families get easier to balance work with family life. We have the opportunity to set the public sector free so that institutions and employees will be able to do their job more easily. We have all these opportunities right now because we are in the midst of the perfect political storm. The question is whether we have the courage to embrace and exploit them, or whether we fall into the same old, conform solutions that we have tried so many times before. At the end of the day, because we are standing here with open doors for a new political season, I would like to encourage all of us to reflect a little. I think that sometimes in this Parliament we forget to focus on the things that are actually most important. Last week there was a violent debate about who has the tightest immigration policy in Denmark, and some threw themselves into an entire competition for it. Fortunately, there are many of us who do not participate in it. Another case came to be about whether a young 18-year-old boy, student council chairman, is Danish or Udansk or something quite different. And on Monday we were going to discuss whether to hang a flag on the wall for the opening of the Folketing. While we're discussing these things, there's war in Syria, there's mass killing in Aleppo, war crimes that we can actually follow on the open screen. There are children who lose their parents and parents who lose their children. There were some of our good colleagues from the Left and the Conservatives who tried to draw attention to this today, and thank you for that. We are witnessing a galloping inequality crisis, which means that 62 people own the same as half of the world's population, and in addition, we are in the midst of a historic climate crisis that can send 200 million people to flee before the year 2050. I am not saying that it is not interesting to discuss national symbols and foreign policy, but I would actually like to ask my dear colleagues today: are there other things that we should also remember to discuss? If there had been a political laboratory here in the Alternative, I would have asked Members to look up post-its now and write down the word that is important for each one to talk about. Then we could have hung them up here on the back wall as decoration until something else arrives. I will free Members from that, but instead ask you to think about what word you think is important and to keep it in your heart, and then let us hope that we fill the next year with important things as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006155319	No, it is not a working method for which the Folketing is designed, but it is for brief comments, and we shall start with them. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006155329	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur for his speech... always inspiring. I have a question which relates to something as earthy as that which appeared in the Berlingske Tidende on 22 September. After all, it was not so long ago. It said that the president of the alternative, Mr. Uffe Elbæk, like Mr. Morten Østergaard makes it clear that the party wants a new and more lenient foreign policy in the event of a change of government. His condition for pointing to Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister is that she should take the lead, and I quote: a project with the right direction on the issue of climate and inequality. And then it goes on to say that, under the last point, there are, among other things, the following points. The foreign policy, and I quote, must take a markedly different direction from that of the Left Government, that is to say, a significantly different direction in the issue of foreigners. Will Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist is not nice to tell the Folketing what lies in the demand for a markedly different direction in foreign policy, which must be met by a change of government?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006155425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006155427	Fortunately, I do not think it surprises any of my dear colleagues here in the Danish Parliament that a party will fight for its political affairs, including for a completely different way of dealing with refugees who come to our country and people who live here in relation to family reunification and so on. This is a completely different way of dealing with people than what we are doing at the moment, and we will, of course, fight for that politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006155452	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006155454	Thank you. What is the point, then, of the fact that it is a condition for pointing to Mrs Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister that there is such a distinctly different direction? I ask because we have therefore had the opportunity to ask Mrs Mette Frederiksen this morning about precisely this, and she has answered that, if there is a change of government, immigration policy should be based on the political centre, and that the Danish people support the policy of foreigners being pursued today, that is to say that it is the one that is being conducted today that is the starting point, also in the future. This contrasts with the alternative, which wants a markedly different direction. The article simply states that it is a condition for pointing to Mrs Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister. But it could be a misunderstanding. And so it is nice that we are told today that the alternative does not impose such conditions at all and that it is a whole misunderstanding that appears in the Berlingske Tidende on 22 September.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006155544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006155545	I'll say as I've said 745 times, and I think my leader, sir. Uffe Elbæk, has said it 753 times etc. But we are fighting for a political direction. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl must also know that Dansk Folkeparti was also a new party at a time that for someone had a completely wild alien policy. After all, it has become mainstream today, and it is such a total political rightness to want to tighten in the way that you have wanted in the Danish People's Party. We will fight for something else, and I hope we will be equally successful.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006155620	Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006155622	Thank you very much. And thank you for your speech. If I had to write on one of those yellow post-its, there would probably be ambitions like I was talking about. But I am not sure that we mean the same with ambition, because, as I also mentioned, it can go in many directions. My ambitions point in the direction of growth, and I have to understand that the Alternative may point in a slightly different direction, if not in the opposite direction, then at least in a different direction. Because, as has been mentioned, we have the possibility of introducing a 30-hour working week; of course we do. The Ministry of Finance has calculated it a little, and it will cost about 130 billion. kr. every year. It's the same thing we use on the entire hospital service for all doctors, nurses, buildings. For the whole cuckoo, it's 130 billion. kr. I guess that's not where we're gonna get that money, so where are we gonna find it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006155716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006155717	It's so nice. I was also given the opportunity to speak 30-hour working week one year ago when we were standing here for the first opening we were involved in. There are a lot of grounds behind the calculations that we do not recognise. We have come to comment on it many times. There was also an answer after this 134 billion. kr., as the Ministry of Finance said, an answer that actually showed that over 14 years you could phase in a 30-hour week. We would then certainly be less rich than if we had not done so, but we would have the level that we have today and that we think is good. So you have to remember to read all the answers from the Ministry of Finance and not just the individuals who just fit into your hugs. Because it's very different what kind of assumptions we put into these calculations. And we think it is absolutely crucial that we translate the productivity that we get when we become more skilled into more time so that we can have more society.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006155808	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006155810	Thank you. I have also understood Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, that the calculation models used by the rest of the world, including the Danish Ministry of Finance and the present Parliament, are not fully recognised. And it's okay that you feel that way, but I guess you owe it to you to present a bid as to how you think it's supposed to count. Well, when does the alternative come with this? I think, in fact, that the alternative has at some point promised to share the views of the needy rapporteurs like myself on how to imagine that we are counting when it is not the way we others are doing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006155851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006155852	But that's not just something the alternative says, I'd say to Mr. Knox. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. In fact, it is also several major international organisations, the IMF, etc. that are in the process of examining how we can actually measure and calculate our society on a number of other grounds, which also have an environmental and social dimension, which is not included in the calculations being made today. That's why it's so interesting that it's like we've fallen off the moon when we're saying this. This is not a new criticism. It is a criticism from several international recognised organisations that we are involved in, which actually say that we need to find out how we can develop our ways of measuring our society so that we do not measure just one parameter.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006155932	The next question is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006155938	I would like to ask you a question about the ceiling on cash benefits. After all, it is no secret that there are two proposals for adoption today by the opposition. What is, after all, the difference in the proposal put forward by the Enhedslisten is that it says that the ceiling on cash benefits should be withdrawn. I think that the debate we have had today in the Parliamentary Assembly on the ceiling for cash aid shows that it would have been very beautiful if an overall opposition could have said that, after an election in which a new political majority will emerge, we will roll back the ceiling for cash aid. I think it would be important to light the light in the dark for the many thousands of people who are affected by the cash benefits ceiling • the many thousands of people who will see that they will lose lots of money every month, the lots of people who will also be forced to move. So my question is really, since the alternative will not be on the proposal for adoption, whether the alternative will then tell us to what extent it is a priority in terms of getting the demand fought through when, hopefully, at some point, we will very soon have a new political majority, which will then also be able to adopt a new policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006160055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006160058	It is absolutely crucial for us, when we are going to have debates like this, that we are then debating these texts. The questioner's colleagues have also sat there, and it is back and forth, and you write, and you call, and you do so and so on. For us, it was important to get a very sharp focus in that text, and we would also like to stand together several parties, and I think we have got a good and well-balanced text on that. That is why we are voting in favour of the proposal for adoption on which we are co-rapporteurs. But it is not the place for us, of course, to have abolished the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the benefit of integration after a choice. That is what we want to use our mandates for, and I hope that, together with the Enhedslisten and other parties who want to do so, we will be so strong that we will succeed in doing so. But there is a compromise when you do this kind of thing, and it was important for us, we think that more parties are united in a proposal for a text for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006160147	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006160150	Thank you. We also hope on the part of the Enhedslisten that we will be so strong that it will be possible. However, does the rapporteur not agree that the blue parties have at least tried to cast doubt on whether the ceiling on cash benefits will be rolled back after a forthcoming election? And does this not give rise to any reflection on how to make a choice, but also, after an election, to pressure the remaining part of the opposition, which consists of one party, to recognise that we need to have some very firm promises about this in order to light up the darkness of the many thousands of people who will be affected by poverty due to the ceiling on cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006160230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006160233	First of all, the blue parties are trying so hard. Well, they are also trying to agree on a 2025 plan, and it doesn't look like it's going so well yet. But, of course, we must fight to push the last party in the opposition, which will not guarantee this. And I am sure that we will be successful because, as it clearly says, there is a clear statement of what this ceiling on cash benefits means for people. So let us fight and continue to work for it, because it must be absolutely unreasonable for us to see people fall into poverty in the way we see it right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006160306	The next question is Mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006160310	I will also sign for a strong speech. I share many of the views that were expressed. We're going to be here this autumn, among other things. discuss how our tax system should be organised. Most of it has been plunged into the air: income taxes, housing taxes and energy taxes. And I understand that what came from Mr. Uffe Elbæk over the summer, that in the alternative you do not want an income tax at all, maybe it was going too far anyway. I understood that in a debate that I had the other day with Mr. René Gade on TV. But what then appeared was that the way in which one wants the widest shoulders to bear the most is through so-called progressive excise duties. So the more you spend, the higher the charges. There I just have a real curiosity to know if you've gotten closer, how that system should be set up, because I don't think that's crystal clear. As far as the Radical Left is concerned, I would say that we think tax policy is relatively simple: what you want more of is less tax, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for what he has done. I would like to make a few comments on this matter. There just has to be a connection in it. What I didn't quite understand, however, was how we get closer to 0 kr. in income tax with progressive and responsible taxes in the green system. I hope we can get closer here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006160422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006160425	I had considered a little that, when I got a question about a Mr. Uffe Elbæk quote, would look a little empty in the room and say: Who is it? Because when you sit and do an interview about visions for a future society and sit and think big thoughts, there are such quotes, and when Mr. Uffe Elbæk has even been out to say that he would like to be allowed to clarify how it should be understood, so I think we should take it with us. So I know who, sir. Uffe Elbæk is. What we want to do in relation to taxation is, in fact, what the questioner himself is talking about, in other words, to tax what we want less of and to reduce the tax on labour. We say it has to be from scratch. We don't want to lower the top tax, but lower it from scratch. And then we want to tax all the resources more. It's fortunes, resource consumption, etc. There you have to think of a social staircase so that everyone does not get hit the same way. That is why a tax system must be balanced. What we are looking at is how it can then work in relation to progressive taxation, including on resources, for example. You've had a green check before, which you threw out. That is where we need to look at different solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006160533	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006160537	I think that is a good reflection, because it is clear that with a system completely free of income tax it is very difficult to imagine that you will have a social balance and all respect for it. But what came out that day on the television broadcast was that it had to be something about the tax on the tenth steak being higher than the tax on the first. I have been in many TV debates, but there was a short moment of a vacuum in which I think that everyone just ran through the tank to see how it could be put into practice, because how does the cashier know how many steaks have been bought in the past, and something like that? That is just why I am asking if, with the short time available here, we can be told whether it was also in that case such an idea that might have run away a little from Mr Tugendhat. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006160618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006160621	I love being a political rapporteur there! Now I have not actually seen the debate myself; it is not a programme that I follow so often. I am sure it has been used as a metaphor for us to have to look at how there can be a progressiveness in the taxes we make.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006160640	The next question is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006160648	Thank you. I would like to sign for the good cooperation on the proposal for adoption. I think it is important for several parties to stand together to fight against inequality and to fight for a green transition in Denmark, so I would like to thank you for that. Then I would like to ask something a little different from what has been discussed today, namely the children's policy of the alternative. This is something that SF is very concerned about, that is, how we ensure the children a good start in life. There are several studies that show that there are more and more situations in which educators stand alone in day care institutions • Sometimes there is 1 educator for 18 children. This has meant that we in the SF believe that we should go where minimum standards are introduced. It is the same as the education union, BUPL, recommends, and it is simply to ensure that all children get a good start in life. And this is also the thing about ensuring that the society we leave behind for the coming generation is better than what is now, which I also know the alternative shares. So I would like to know whether the alternative agrees that minimum standards should be introduced in the country's day-care institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006160746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006160750	What is a little unfortunate when we talk about minimum standards in day care institutions is that it is symptom treatment. And symptom treatment may be necessary for a transitional period, but as I mentioned in relation to debureaucratisation, it is for us to set the institutions free, to set the educators free to do their job and thereby to get more resources out, including in the children's institutions. So we fully agree that there may be a symptom treatment that is necessary in order to make minimum standards, but if we look at the long track, we would therefore like it not to be us in here who should decide it, but the institutions who find out what it is for a composition of children and how they need the support and help of educators. So we have to keep in mind to have two perspectives when we look at these things, because I don't think it's good that we should sit here and do detailed planning in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006160835	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006160837	Personally, I don't think it's symptom treatment. I think that is equivalent to saying that the class ceiling, that is to say that one regulates how many pupils you have to put in classes, is symptom treatment. After all, it is precisely a guarantee that there are a number of adults for a number of children who ensure that there is time for well-being, that there is time for you to be able to handle both children who are fighting, or children who are crying, or children who just have a bad day. And I agree that we should debureaucratize out there, but is it enough just to debureaucratize? Could we not do both, i.e. have both minimum standards in the long term, but also debureaucratise in the long term?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006160911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006160914	In other words, the reason why there is any need to stand and talk about minimum standards is that there have been such marked cuts. Then it is symptom treatment all of a sudden to say that there must be minimum standards in order to try to stop a reduction. So if, on the one hand, we are burying an economy and, on the other hand, we say that there must now be minimum standards, that is a symptom of it. And that is why I say yes, it may be a necessary tool now and here, but we would like that freedom to come out to the institutions, to the skilled educators, to the skilled managers who are out in kindergartens and institutions and to help them find out what makes sense for their composition of children.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006160945	The next question is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006160950	Thank you. I had the pleasure of taking part in a debate here on Tuesday. Uffe Elbæk attended. There he said one thing that he said sometimes and that I think about. I wonder what it's really meant to be... it's not a general remark, it's just about this thing... with this thing... about creating a new one. What kind of society do we want? I also hear the rapporteur say that there is poverty in Denmark and that benefits must be introduced without counterclaims. What are some benefits to be introduced? Who's gonna have them? How big do they have to be? I mean, where do the boundaries go? Does it also include the single mother with two children who actually go to work and work and maybe do not have so much for themselves? Or is it only people on public breadwinners who are such a special part of the new "us"? Well, where are we in that discussion with the Alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161051	The questioner mixes a little different things up. First of all, I'd like to get to grips with this basic benefit without any counterclaims. What we write exactly in our party programme is that we want to replace cash aid with a basic benefit without counterclaims, so that we do not have a system based on control and mistrust, but actually use all the resources we have in the employment system to help people, motivate people and help them further. That's one side of it. When we talk about a new us, it is because we are in the process of polarising society with the way we have discussed, among other things. the things I mentioned about what it is to be Danish. There we are beginning to divide society up, and we therefore need to create new communities and not just start to polarise us more and more. For then we do not have the cohesion that is so essential for having a nice country.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161138	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161141	I must admit that I have not plowed through the Alternative's political programme. I admit that from here on out. I know that some people are thinking that there is just 100 kg of pure right-wing evil here, where I am standing right now, and I know that I have talked about it sometimes today, but I just find it very difficult to understand benefits without counterclaims and understand that we are talking about poverty if you have more than 17,000 kroner in your hand. after tax a month as a single mother with two children. Where is the limit and where is the respect for the people who go to work every day? That is what I feel so deeply provoked by in this debate on the ceiling for cash benefits. It's the poverty talk that I think is a fresh speech in the country called Denmark when we talk about 17,600 kr. After baby.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161233	Now I'm never trying to figure out what nice men weigh, so I can't go into that in depth. However, in relation to poverty, it is just so important to say that right now we are seeing families with children who are going to be thrown into the streets over the next few months because they cannot afford to pay their rents. For me, it's poverty in this society we live in. I know that a poverty limit has been abolished so that you do not have to deal with it. But it still exists in relation to a meridian income etc. etc. So I think we have to deal with the fact that we are in the process of creating poverty here when we make these kinds of legislation, such as the ceiling on cash benefits. It creates poverty in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161309	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Danny Malkowski, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161316	Thank you. We hear a lot of the alternative talk about creativity and entrepreneurship, which we want to stimulate in the entrepreneurial environments, and I can only welcome that. We just think we should use another model. At the same time, however, one wonders why, when creativity and entrepreneurship are at the best possible time, when one has a completely free framework for living out one's dreams and ambitions, why is it that at the same time the alternative only wants to stimulate special green entrepreneurial initiatives and social entrepreneurial initiatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161342	Actually, neither do we. If you read our entrepreneurial package, you can see that we are saying that we will particularly support green and social entrepreneurs, because that is something we need in our society. In other words, we need entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship in general, and then we have some particular challenges, and there we think that when it is the common fund that pays, then we can say: this is particularly important, and then we want to put more money into it. So it is not the case that we only want it, but we would particularly like to have more good green solutions, and we believe that this is going through an active effort to strengthen entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161411	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161414	New technological measures, which are not known now and here, can also easily solve the climate problems in the long term. And that is why, as politicians, we cannot stand here and dictate what entrepreneurs are going to start businesses around now and here. It is their own creativity and entrepreneurship that must sparkle and give growth. So I am just not understanding why people want to give particular attention to entrepreneurs who already have green intentions, even though there may be technologies that are not green now but can be in five years' time or ten years' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161445	That is because the questioner believes that politics is static and we cannot change a single decimal point. When the alternative says that this must be supported, that is, green and social entrepreneurship, then it can be dynamic when new things come up. At the same time, we would like to put an end to the alignment of education, research and so on, so that we can get that freedom to come up with new technologies and so on. So I don't quite understand that contrast in terms of what we want. We're just saying that this is money from the common fund, and we're facing some challenges. Let's push them over there in particular. However, we would like to support entrepreneurship in general, because jobs are also being created.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161514	The next question is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161521	Thank you. On 13 May this year, I heard Radio24syv, where the then legal rapporteur of the Alternative commented on the verdict as to whether Gimi Levakovic should be allowed to stay in Denmark or not. I was driving in my car, and I was quite surprised, because I could understand it all, that if it were up to the alternative, it was quite fine that big-time foreigners could be allowed to stay in Denmark. If there is anything I have to say to step on mine, and I believe a lot of other Danes' sense of justice, then it is when big criminals like the Danes. Gimi Levakovic with 28 convictions behind him can be allowed to remain in Denmark. So I just want to know whether it is the policy of the Alternative that people who commit very, very serious crime and do not have Danish citizenship should be expelled. Is the answer yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161611	Well then, I understand that, unlike the questioner, I have great respect for international agreements, international conventions, because I believe that this is what makes our world stick together. Do I think it's amazing to look at this person? No, but we have to look at those conventions and follow them. I think that what we are experiencing at the moment, namely that some of the rules of the game that make our world work, are deeply shocking. We must therefore hold on to them, because we must have convinced even more people to follow them, and not suddenly start shaking hands, because then I can promise you that there are others who shake hands in relation to the conventions, and then things are very bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161649	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161652	So just to do the math, it means that it is more important for the alternative to hold on to the system, as it is, even if it means that in relation to people like for example. Gimi Levakovic, with 28 convictions behind him, is the consideration of international obligations more important than ensuring that there is some justice and that people who are foreigners and who commit serious crime can be thrown out?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161720	I just have to say that these things are connected. International obligations and international conventions are linked. If we do not want to follow them in Denmark, how can we stand and point the finger at what is going on in Syria with what Assad is doing? These are all international rules, and we need to respect them and follow them. That is the way we can create a better world. If we turn our backs on them, how can we point our fingers at others?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161744	The next question is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161751	This summer I had the pleasure of commenting on one of the Alternative's proposals, namely that of an extra high tax on iPhones. One of the things I was worried about was that people would be restricted by the fact that the tax is higher in Denmark than in neighbouring countries with a higher tax on iPhones in Denmark. That's why I'm gonna try to hear Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist, about Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist believes that people will buy an iPhone in Denmark if they can go to Germany and buy it significantly cheaper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161822	First of all, then, we are great advocates of European cooperation, even when it comes to looking at how we can reduce the use of scarce resources and think more circularly. There is such a need for us to think Europeanly here, but it does not mean that we should sit on our hands until we get all the other countries with us. I think we can start to introduce precisely resource taxes that make an iPhone, for example, more expensive. I think that we in Denmark can demand that the guarantee period be longer so that things are produced to last longer. But I would really like this to be something that is being done in a common European context. Then it'll start to move something, because we're a big market together.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161859	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161902	Actually, I asked sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, about Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist believes that people will just buy an iPhone in Denmark if it is more expensive in Denmark than it is in Germany or Sweden. Yes, if they are on vacation in the United States, they can also buy one with home. Thinks sir. Rasmus Nordqvist that people can buy an iPhone when they're on vacation, instead of waiting until they get home, and then pay a higher tax at home?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006161931	Now I did not know that iPhones has become so cheap that they have come below that limit, or the limit has been raised dramatically. I think that is an important signal to send. For me, it is also about working on taxes that we together are getting better at using the scarce resources we have and using them more circularly. There are certainly some who will go to Germany and buy an iPhone if that is what they want, but I also think that it creates a consciousness and an opportunity for us to think: okay, let's think about how we use resources. And then I am sure that our European comrades would like to join us.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162003	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162012	I would like to ask about the alternative plan for a 30-hour week. If working hours are reduced to 30 hours a week, without reducing wages too, which I understand is the alternative's plan, there are consequences for business. Now it's not about me, but I know my own business pretty well, so I'll use that as an example. It's a small bus company that drives people around to whatever they want to be driven around to. We have some buses that have to drive every day so that there can be profits, and that is a prerequisite for us to be able to preserve the jobs that exist in this small company. How are we going to fill in our schedule if our drivers are only allowed to drive 30 hours a week instead of 37 hours? At least I will make it immediately that we have to hire one more, which means that we will have some higher costs, and then I am not sure that there can be profits in the company. How do we solve this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162112	As I mentioned earlier when I answered a question about a 30-hour week, it is precisely something that is being phased in over years, just as it has been done in the past. We've gone down in working hours. It has not caused all companies to be closed down. We've got a sixth vacation week. It has not caused all companies to be closed down. So this is a natural development. It is not something that needs to be done overnight. But if we do this over a number of years in the course of 10 to 14 years, it can actually be done by the fact that the productivity increase and perhaps the real wage increase that one should have was calculated in time, so employees are helping to pay it. They maintain the level of pay they have today. Employers, of course, also contribute to paying a small part of it. We think this is good. It is good for the citizens, the people, that we have more time for each other. It is therefore also good for companies to have increased concentration, increased productivity.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162158	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162202	Will Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist does not explain to me how to make an increase in efficiency when it is that you have some buses going on every day and drivers need to be used? How can we increase productivity in such a way that it will not be more expensive if drivers are allowed to drive only 30 hours a week instead of 37 hours? Because I just don't understand that. It is fair enough to point out that we have generally had a reduction in working hours, but one must also be able to explain in some way the rationale behind how this should not be a huge extra cost for a whole lot of companies, for whom it will be impossible to make it run around.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162241	Now that the questioner is in the transport sector, he must also be aware that the technological developments that are currently taking place in the transport sector, I think, are going to change what our paths look like in the course of 14 years. So there is always, as a previous questioner said, a development and also an innovative development in the transport sector. All we know is that we have a society in which too many families with children are simply not connected. We're under stress. That is why we need to look at how we can make another society, and we can do that, among other things. by working less.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162310	The next question is Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162317	Thank you for that and thank you very much for the rapporteur's speech. However, perhaps to my liking there was just enough crisis me here and crisis me there and crisis me everywhere. In fact, I do not really share the rapporteur's pessimistic view of our society. However, I also heard the rapporteur refer to the need for debureaucratisation, and that is where I share the rapporteur's view. But could it possibly be that the alternative actually believes that this is a real bureaucracy crisis in the public sector in Denmark at the moment?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162356	I was actually trying to draw the picture that we can also use crises for something sensible, because there are also opportunities in them when we are challenged, and I think we are challenged in many, many areas right now. But certainly I think we can call what is happening right now when every public servant spends an average of one hour registering himself, because critically it is a crisis. Now, if we set all the hours off for our children in kindergarten, as there was someone who was in the previous week for our young people, when they were in education, and for our elderly, it was fantastic for many hours. So, yes, I know that at least our two parties share this wish, and I am sure that we can get very far in creating a better public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162435	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162438	Thank you. I have also mentioned the need for de-bureaucratisation in the past this week, I think it was the President of the Social Democratic Party who heard it said. And in the Liberal Alliance, we are always very happy when there are other parties that take up some of our views, because we have actually addressed the need for de-bureaucratisation for a long time and actually have a de-bureaucratisation rapporteur, even as the only party in the Folketing. I can see from the rapporteur's main shake that it is probably also a question of the alternative having a debureaucratisation rapporteur, but we also have a debureaucratisation plan in the Liberal Alliance. I would really like to hear whether the rapporteur could lift a little of the veil on the alternative's plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162524	I cannot stand here and do that, no, but I think the questioner should talk to my very good colleague, Mrs Josephine Fock, who actually works a lot in this area. I know that we share the ambition to debureaucratise. Then there is the ambition of what we should then use all the resources that are released for, and we do not quite share that, I know from previous discussions, because we want to reinvest them precisely in the public institutions. I don't think that's exactly the plan of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162547	The next question is Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162554	Thank you for that, and thank you for an interesting speech. Over the last year, I have followed the alternative a little, and I have noticed that in the field of foreigners there are, of course, some nuance differences in perceptions, partly in relation to the views of the government and partly in relation to the views of the Socialists. I'd like to expand on that a little bit. President of the alternative, sir. Uffe Elbæk, has at one point mentioned that immigration policy must change sometime in the future and that it must have a significantly different direction. We have mentioned this before and he has even stressed that no one should come and bosse the alternative. Then we're over in a language that starts to sneak along red lines, steel-faced looks and other things like that. I was thinking that sir... Perhaps Rasmus Nordqvist could elaborate on what might be in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162652	I think that we all learn a lot in Danish politics right now about red lines, steel eyes, and who blinks with their eyes. I also believe that we can all see that cooperation may not be the most fruitful thing. Now I'm looking down at the PM, and he certainly looks like he agrees. We are at the heart of the policy we have. We fight for that policy. And no, no one has to boss around with us for us to mean something else. But we don't believe in having ultimate demands and standing around talking about red lines. We believe that we must work politically to achieve what we want, and we know fortunately that we have a great many colleagues in the opposition on one side and on the other side of the corridor who actually want the same thing as us, and then we have to fight together politically for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162733	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162736	[Sound Falls]...lightly let go. In fact, many of us are waiting to hear some firm guidelines from the rapporteur. I would like to hear this quite clearly: do you intend to put the chair of a Socialist President at the door if the theoretical situation were to be found that the Socialists were able to mobilize a majority in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162804	I did not know that the questioner was jumping from his party and that it was therefore so important for the questioner to know exactly this. Well, we will work politically for what we believe in, and that is another policy when it comes to refugees and foreigners. But we don't believe in ultimate demands. We did not do so in the last election campaign, and neither do we now. We believe in political work. That is what we are going to do with this agenda and, fortunately, as I said, we have a lot of good colleagues who want to work for it with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162831	The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162840	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist for a good speech. The alternative has, among other things. I would like to stress the desire for a new political culture. And that's where I'd like to share an experience with mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the experience that we in the Enhedslisten from 2001 and a decade ahead helped to adopt countless resolutions on equality, on better conditions for one and better conditions for the other, but then a new government came, and in some of the central areas the very opposite happened. That's why I'm gonna ask Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, whether it is part of the alternative's thinking that it may sometimes be better, when you make proposals for adoption here in the Folketing, that you are concrete and mean what you say, rather than being fluffy and broad, so that it is not really known what is hiding behind the nice words.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006162933	Yes, I promise, sir. Søren Søndergaard for that I know. I can also promise the questioner that I will speak to good colleagues, including his own party, about the very situation under the previous government, just as we are trying to learn a great deal from the situation in the government right now. In fact, I think that the text that we negotiated has moved significantly in relation to what has been done at least in the time I have been here in the Folketing. There are some very, very important things that are important for us to stand by. Then I know that Enhedslisten has taken that text and then added this last line. But for us, it was important to move some other parties and to find common ground around these agendas. And that's what we balanced this time when we chose the text that we did.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163018	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163020	What is the problem is, of course, what we then agree on. Well, in the text that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist refers to, there is a clear criticism of the cash benefits ceiling • amazingly clear. In other words, there is no doubt that the parties behind that text are opposed to the ceiling on cash benefits. And that's what I'm thinking. Rasmus Nordqvist responds to the cash aid recipient who gets hit by this cash aid ceiling and calls in to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist asks whether this means that the parties making the proposal will abolish the ceiling on cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163102	He will answer: I can promise you that the alternative will abolish the cash aid ceiling, and I know that there are several other parties in the opposition that will remove the cash aid ceiling. And that is why, if there were an election, I would have to vote for some of those parties, if that were what was important to you. Then we must push the last party in the opposition, which shares the ambition, but then is out in all sorts of explanations as to why they cannot say it right now. These are not explanations that I agree with, but I can say quite clearly that we want to abolish the ceiling on cash benefits because we believe that it is completely up to date.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163132	The next question is Mr. Jacob Jensen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163139	Thank you. After all, we can all see that in the years to come we will have major vintages that retire and that smaller vintages will enter the labour market. Hopefully we are ahead of one, one might say, less economic recovery at some point if one is to believe the predictions. Companies are crying out for labour already now, and it will not be less in the coming years. It is then in this situation that the alternative suggests that we do not care about time, but significantly reduce working time. I could understand that it was like a movement that the alternative described as the argument that it could easily be done: we have worked more in the past, and therefore one can easily imagine that we are working even less and going down to the 30 hours. Does the alternative see any lower limit on how little the Danish population can work? Could one imagine that movement continued down to 25 hours, 20 hours or anything else at some point if it is up to the alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163233	I am not going to be wise at all, because I do not actually know the developments that will take place in 10 years and in 20 years' time. So I think we should not be fixated that we should work and think it's good luck to work 371⁄2 hours a week. The world is changing and we are becoming more and more productive. So let's take advantage of it to make time for each other. That's the simple rationale we've come up with. If there is an extreme increase in productivity in 50 years' time, I will not be standing here at all anymore, and secondly, I am sure that there are some who have some good suggestions on how to tackle those challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163309	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163312	The simple mathematics and challenge is, of course, that even with the increase in productivity that we are experiencing every year, the technology is evolving; I fully agree with Mr Tugendhat. Rasmus Nordqvist in, and we will probably and hopefully see that in the coming years too. Then we will still have a greater challenge with demographic development, not only in Denmark, but in large parts of the Western world with an older and older population and a smaller and smaller proportion of working age. So that's why I'm just asking you if mr. Rasmus Nordqvist can see if there is a lower limit to how little you can work and thus have more time for yourself • however sympathetic it may sound.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163353	First of all, I must draw the attention of the questioner to the fact that we are facing losing up to 877 000 jobs due to automation. So you have to keep numbers against each other and balance them and understand them. I'm not gonna stand here and decide what happens in society in 50 years. We have made this proposal and have said that we actually think it is a very good idea because we believe that it can create a better society and because we know that we are becoming more and more productive. Let's take advantage of it to make time for each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163417	The next question is Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163425	Thank you. I would like to ask the alternative rapporteur something a little different from the more specific policy, because the alternative is very much a party that looks up at political laboratories, visions and the idea of a completely different society, and that must be respected. In politics, however, we also need words from vision to action. It might be interesting for me to ask Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist: Does the Alternative view itself as a party that would be ready to go into government if one were given the opportunity to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163459	If you can agree on the right government basis, then yes. I do not think there is any party that does not want to go into government and have the right of initiative. It is about the basis that is working on and the given majority that would be.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163509	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163512	Thank you. The reason I ask is that Mrs Mette Frederiksen said very clearly from the platform earlier this day that she wanted an alien policy based on the current conditions. Mrs Pernille Skipper also made it clear that the alternative block of Danish politics had probably run. Has it also been accepted in the alternative that whatever constellation may be in government, that is, with either a bourgeois government or a social democratic government, it is the immigration policy that is being pursued now whose terms continue? Or are we prepared to put more forceful action behind the words and possibly pressure a possible future Red Prime Minister to pursue a different policy in this area, if she wants to keep her job?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163558	Now I know the questioner as a quite visionary, ideological politician who would like to stand up for his policy, and I can only promise the questioner that I will. Of course, I will fight for the implementation of our policy. Right now, we have 10 mandates, if we had 90, it would all go through. I can't tell you when it's gonna happen, but of course I'm gonna fight for it. I will then fight for us to have the political influence needed to change society in the direction that we believe is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163625	Then we move on to the last question in this round. This is Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163634	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. In fact, Mr. Morten Østergaard (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Østergaard on his excellent report. The rapporteur slipped off a bit earlier, but the fact is that in the debate the rapporteur for the alternative said that the alternative is not afraid of the complexity of the tax system. Well, that's what we're gonna get. In fact, allow me to be a little brazen and ask again: is it the policy of the alternative that a tax should be imposed when you buy steak number two within a week? Because I know your policy is that you're max. must have 100 grams of meat a day. So I just want to hear what happens if you, for example... buy chicken or pig, which isn't as climate-laden? Can you get a little more, and how do you think it should be regulated in practical terms, when you are not afraid of this complexity of the tax system?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163732	First of all, I must repeat that I did not see the debate that evening and I assume that it has been used as a metaphor. Yeah, we think you should eat less meat. We've been saying that all along. We will not legislate to eat only 100 grams of meat. That's what we're talking about. We then believe that we need different tools to get there. We had to say that the Ethical Council's proposal to impose a levy on beef actually seemed to us to be very sensible, because eating so much beef is extremely climate-laden. How, then, can we turn down that consumption, just as we do with cigarettes and booze and everything else we don't want too much of either? We can do that by means of taxes. But I am not going to go into a debate on the first and the tenth steak. To the extent that I am familiar with our policy and I tend to be reasonably good it is about us wanting a tax on resources. Then it's just that we're thinking about how we can create a progressiveity in it. It doesn't stop right by the steak. It's probably a bigger calculation than for the individual steak.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163828	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163831	Thank you for your answer. As far as the steaks and the metaphor that lie in it are concerned, what about flights, for example? Does the alternative mean that there should be going in and registering how many flights people make in one year, then imposing taxes when people travel more than a certain number of kilometres that they are now allowed to use? I'm not quite sure if the alternative has set a mile limit. But that is more to hear: is it also a metaphor, or is it actually a wish of the alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163904	We want people to become more environmentally friendly and climate-friendly, even when you are transporting, and we want to use taxes to ensure that again. But no, we do not want to keep a log on where Mrs. Mette Abildgaard is flying, whether it is on a honeymoon or whatever.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163920	Thank you, Mr President, to the rapporteur of the alternative. Rasmus Nordqvist. We move on to the next rapporteur in line, and that is Mr President. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006163934	On Sunday I heard P2, and Mr. Anders Samuelsen, who had been invited into a program called Jersild & Jukeboxen. Sir. Anders Samuelsen likened the situation to the famous boxing match • The Rumble in the Jungle • I know what is called the world's biggest boxing match, which took place in Africa between Muhammad Ali and George Foreman. And I guess I'm not going to surprise anyone when I say that mr. Anders Samuelsen had put himself in the role of Muhammad Ali, who, as you know, won the knockout in the eighth round. What was left out was who had the role of George Foreman, where kispus was first to be played a seven or eight laps and the opponent had to be run tired. Then who was it who was supposed to have the knockout at the end? It could be the Prime Minister, but it could be Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. But no matter what, you have to say that it's probably gonna end with a black eye. It's exciting to bring the world of boxing. What's next? The Cuban crisis, or the moon landing or what metaphors will you find to describe the terms of the government constellation? Whatever the case, however, it must be said that it is probably more entertaining than it is sustainable to drive the country as if it were a boxing match of historic dimensions. And I almost feel sorry for the Prime Minister when the Danish People's Party then shows up for the Folketing Year with a demand for a Queen'sunde. Just as the work was about to begin, you want to get to the majesty. I know that the Danish People's Party believes in the royal house a great deal. I've tried three of these queens underneath. Coffee is hot, and the tone is more powerful than it may be in the political debate. However, the worrying thing is that if one wants to box and the other wants to drink coffee with the majesty, the result is a little that the Prime Minister is left like Snitch in the famous history and with the formation of government as, indeed, the cat in the sack, and the country is not really being led. Maybe elections will come this year, maybe elections will come next year, we don't know. In the meantime, however, the challenges we face are completely unsolved. That is why, once again, the question of who has the hand on the steering wheel in Danish politics runs the risk of blocking the question of where we are going. As radicals, we are ready for change. We are fighting for those who are harder than we are and those who are following us, and that is what our policy is aiming for when we talk about education, climate and social balance. Our aim is to provide a basis for investing massively in education and in the upbringing of children, because all children have earned a good upbringing because education is an end in itself and because education is a means for many people to achieve a better life. Education offers opportunities for the individual and for society, and in this way our policy runs counter to that of the government. Because education has become a money well from which money is fished up every time there is a gap in the budget. The police conciliation, cash benefits agreements and the overall plan are partly financed by training savings. I can't do that. At one point, the well is drying out, and cutting down on education is in itself an enemy of the future. That's sawing in the branch our kids are sitting on. We have ambitions and we believe that the money must be found so that we can invest in the future. When it comes to the priority issue, it is possible, at the risk of confirming an old prejudice, to be a little right/left confused. After all, we are almost all agreed in this House that the retirement age should be 68 years from 2030. In fact, it has already been adopted. We then propose that it should instead be 2025, and for me it is all about those who are healthy and in work continuing a little longer and postponing the pension a little, and then we can spend the money on the next generation. The Socialists believe that we have gone far to the right with our proposal. But if the difference between the right and the left becomes, whether the retirement age is 68 years in 2025 or 2030, then it is probably more a question of lump play in the middle. We are certainly pleased that, although the Prime Minister at one point thought it was masochism to look at retirement age, it is no longer. The confusion doesn't get any less when we look at the treasure. We have proposed a restructuring of the tax so that the tax freeze is lifted and the tax on work is relaxed, and I welcome the fact that the government is now putting Fogh's old tax freeze in the grave and that the housing tax must follow price developments. And let's not forget that the Prime Minister also rejected that proposal when we put it in the election campaign. However, it is strange that the Social Democrats are now holding onto Anders Fogh's tax freeze as the last ones. What's right? What's left? Well, boom boom, as we say in our party. I know that some people sometimes think that we are going to be a little reformer in the Radical Left. But actually, we just said in the election campaign and afterwards that you have to dare to change in order to improve, as the generations before us have done. And that is also why we specifically allocate funds in our bid for a 2025 plan to abolish the ceiling on cash aid, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit, because we do not think it is worthy to finance our welfare and the education of future generations by picking up the money from the families that have the least. No, if you want more than to talk nicely about future generations, it takes the courage to give priority. And yes, we believe in the future in the Radical Left, but I am not the gullible spelthian who some once accused me of being when I had visited refugee camps in Jordan and just pointed out that there was probably no prospect of Syrian refugees returning home in the near future. It turned out that I was right, and then the task, and it should gather everyone, is to get started integrating and getting refugees into work and welcoming them to Denmark. We should be able to agree on this, whether we are for wheat or for spelt. Some people also say that we Radicals are windmill fetishists. And it is certainly true that we see wind power as the most important source of energy when we abolish coal and oil, and the government thinks so too, but I apologize for the expression "it seems more like hot air." Because the government wants to cut back on support. We do not want to invest in the wind turbines which we have planned to come together, even if they are now cheaper than we thought when we agreed. We say it is worth the cost of investing in the green transition, but here too the ambitions must be followed by real will to invest and prioritise. Not long ago, I was on a television discussion programme where we were going to discuss integration. And one of the topics was a high school decision to distribute its bilingual students into classes. But instead of a debate where you listen and talk to each other, it all exploded and ended up somewhere else. For suddenly it was openly discussed whether the student council president of Langkær Gymnasium is Danish at all. Jens was born and raised in Denmark and is just as Danish as the meatball average of the rest of us, and he says exactly what H.C. Andersen said: "In Denmark I was born, there I have home. I was delighted that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also found room for it in his speech, and hopes that it must spread to the entire Danish People's Party group that people born in Denmark should not feel familiar with their Danishness. And I think that the question is so important that it deserves some answers during the opening debate by the Danish Parliament. Because when the tone has become so harsh and the limits of what can be said are so fluent, is it something we have adopted, or is it a slip which has just happened without anyone really wanting it? I'd like to make my offer. I think it is fear that speaks when the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Jens, is attacked so hard: the fear of what is different, the fear of those who think something other than the majority. Of course, you can answer the question by saying that it is always the debaters' responsibility to keep a proper tone, but it is probably not that simple. For this fear has been legitimised by a political course that has long been wrong. It is a course in which it has gradually become more and more acceptable to proclaim refugees and those without Western origin as a problem for Denmark and where it can be argued in all seriousness that we can choose between welfare or refugees. It is a course that includes a law to take jewelry from refugees, public warnings to refugees against traveling to Denmark, cuts in benefits to foreigners, although it creates poverty and few employed. It is a course in which it has actually become acceptable for political leaders to proclaim the ceiling of cash aid to a success only on the grounds that eight out of ten families affected are of non-Western origin. For me and for the Radical Left, it is about politics and a choice of direction. The policy decided by a majority in the Folketing is beginning to break in the dignity and unity of our community, because it is based on a story of fear. But our community should be rich enough to include everyone who is here. It should be a community in which the strong helps the weak and where, despite differences, we can live together in trust. In any case, this is the community in which I believe, and that is why we, as radicals, want to work towards a shift in political direction, and to move Denmark in a different direction. I love politics because it can create solutions and improvements, whether it is about the poorest in Denmark, the refugees or the future of the next generation. I want politics to point forward for those who are harder than we are and those who are following us. Others have formulated the vision for Denmark as that the door must now be locked and that we must have a large watchdog and an alarm system, which I think Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl was told at his annual meeting. The most important political task is to ensure the status quo and a Denmark where we do not cultivate opportunities, but concentrate on preserving and defending, because there is so much evil out there. That is honest talk, but it is not something that brings Denmark forward, and I do not think it is a vision that is worth basing its policy on. Radical Left will in a different direction, and the direction described here is not one that we add votes to in this Things, nor after election. Because we politicians must take responsibility for the decisions we take on behalf of future generations. We're not going right, we're not going left. We need to move forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006164943	Thank you. The speech has given rise to a number of brief remarks, and the first is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006164955	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for an excellent speech in many ways, which also illustrates some of the marked differences that exist in Danish politics. It doesn't matter that during such an opening debate as this one we give the Danes the opportunity to get the lines up well. In fact, it is in line with the fact that I am going to ask my question. 'Cause I thought it was pretty interesting that sir... Morten Østergaard in Jyllands-Posten on 24 September chose to make it crystal clear that there must also be another political direction if the Radical Left is to contribute to a change of government at some point after a parliamentary election. And, of course, it is the area of foreigners that I am very interested in. For Mr. Morten Østergaard was given the direct question: you will not be parliamentary basis if you do not get noticeable admissions on, among other things. Foreign policy? And then Mr. Morten Østergaard: That is correct. - Sir... Morten Østergaard did not elaborate on what he meant by it? It is, of course, very square and clear, and the rest of us read it as square and clear as it is, namely that it is a crucial condition for the Radical Left in relation to a coming change of government, if the voters so wish, that the Radical Left will have a decisive influence on a new immigration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006165106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006165109	It is clear that for us there is a reason why we are in opposition. One of them, as I have described in my speech, is that we think it absurd to base a policy that claims to take care of the well-being of future generations on cuts in education. That is one of the reasons why we are in opposition. We also think it is essential that an active policy be pursued to promote the green transition, an area in which this government has put its foot on the brakes heavily. That is another reason why we are in opposition. And then we are against the line taken by the majority in foreign policy, and that is a third reason why we are in opposition. What I am trying to say is that if you want to form a government with us or just on the basis of our votes, it also obviously requires policy to change in the direction we want. I have no illusions that it will be radical Left policy from A-Z. It wasn't the last time we were in government. But it is clear that if you want to pursue a policy more reminiscent of the Danish People's Party than of the Radical Left, then it is more natural to ask the Danish People's Party to put mandates on a parliamentary basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006165208	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006165212	That's very interesting, because there's also history writing in this. When Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt, the Social Democratic Party, became Prime Minister, she also said that immigration policy was firmly established. Then the Radicals said that it should not do so, and then the Radicals were given power as they had watched. That is why it is interesting, as today, that we have Mrs Mette Frederiksen, who says that she wants to conduct immigration policy and immigration policy with people other than those who are actually in the so-called red bloc, because it must be an immigration policy based on a large majority of the population and so on. There it is the assessment and it is also my assessment that it actually requires that you stick to the tight line. And so here we have the Radical Left, which says quite openly and which confirms it today that one is only a parliamentary basis if one gets tangible concessions, among other things. The policy of foreigners and, as Mr. Morten Østergaard says in the article: That is correct. It's just information for the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006165307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006165310	Well, that's for the citizens, for the voters and for the politicians in this Chamber. I can see that it has filled a great deal in today's debate by the Danish People's Party. I would be glad if we had been so accommodated in the way we have been, where the relationship between the Socialists and the Danish People's Party, as far as foreign policy is concerned, has become almost like the relationship between the crown and the euro, namely that even the smallest fluctuation leads to an immediate adjustment of the course.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006165336	The next question is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006165340	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much. Morten Østergaard for a clear speech, one must say. One of the things on which the Radical Left has also been very clear, in the past at least, is that we want to increase development aid to what is equivalent to 1%. of gross national product. It costs so much. 68.4 billion kr. Until 2025, if we were to introduce it tomorrow. I can tell you that's not the government's plan, and I don't think I'm gonna tell you too much now. Where's that money coming from?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006165412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006165415	It is true that we still have a target of 1%. in development aid, but we have presented a 2025 plan in which we can also see that that objective cannot be achieved, even in 2025. In other words, it is a desire to gradually increase development aid towards it as we can afford it. I recognise that this is a long-term objective, and it has certainly not become less long-term by the fact that the current government has so drastically reduced development aid. However, our 2025 plan clearly shows that development aid can be gradually increased even if we cannot reach 1%. Already in 2025.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006165445	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006165448	Thank you. So maybe we'll get there one time, maybe. But if it is up to the Radical Left's plan, how far will we have come by 2025? What's it gonna cost? And where is the funding for this? I'd like to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006165501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006165505	Well, again, if mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen informs us in our excellent 2025 plan that I can only recommend to him that he will be able to see that quite considerable resources have been allocated to development aid and also to bring it up to a level of 2025 which is significantly higher than what we have today. And it is, of course, fully funded in an economic policy that is linked, where we can both afford to stop saving on training and increase investment in the green transition, among other things. because we have the courage to raise the pensionable age by 2025 by a whole year. I wish the government would be involved, not in half a step, but in a whole step, because then perhaps a little more could be done for those in the world who are in the hardest position.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006165540	The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006165544	Thank you, and thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard for the speech. It is the case that some proposals have been put forward for adoption, and that is, after all, the end result of this debate that we have today at least what is being adopted. In the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group), Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) and the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party (Christian-Democratic Group), Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group), on behalf of the Group of the Then you should immediately think that when there is such a clear criticism, the parties behind it will also promise that they will roll back the cash aid ceiling. What else is the idea of criticizing it so clearly in the very first sentence? We do not understand that, which is why we have to ask each party what they really think. That is why I would like to ask Mr. Morten Østergaard: Is it the case that the Radicals, with the proposal for adoption, include in it that, after a forthcoming elections under a new government, they will put forward the proposal, or at least vote for it, if it is put forward that the ceiling for cash aid will be abolished?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006165649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006165653	I can only speak on behalf of the Radical Left, and I can clearly confirm that we will. And we have not just said it as a parole, we have also specifically indicated how it should be financed up to 2025. If we are to get a little debate out of it, then I can just say that it probably also requires that we have some funding proposals which indicate how we want to prioritise, and also some that can become a reality. And there I very much hope that the negotiations that we are about to start will lead to the creation of a room for manoeuvre which will enable us to prioritise together with greater resources, otherwise, of course, this will be a difficult battle. But for us it is high on the list to abolish poverty benefits, along with stopping savings on education and investing in the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006165733	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006165736	[Sound emission]... That is to say, when we consider the tax concessions that have been proposed. But in addition to that, I have another question for Mr. Morten Østergaard, on retirement age, because this is an area in which the Radicals wanted to see an increase. We had warned the Radicals that the raising of the retirement age would have serious consequences for people who have worn out a whole life on the labour market. This has not really been listened to, and now we see the consequences. And then the Radicals come up with a new proposal to raise the retirement age. That is why I would like to know whether the Radicals and Mr. Morten Østergaard will promise that before you vote for an increase in the retirement age again, a legal requirement has been secured for people who have been long in the labour market and who have been worn out, that they will have a system of living, so that the two things go hand in hand, and that under no circumstances will one vote for an increase in the retirement age without such a legal requirement for people who are worn out.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006165832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006165835	I almost get the impression that Mr. Søren Søndergaard has read our proposal, and I am glad of that, because it is worth noting. What we are proposing is precisely to give a legal requirement to people who have less than five years left in the labour market and who do not have their full working capacity. For us, therefore, it is not crucial whether one entered the labour market at an old age or at a low age, whether one took a long time to complete an education and did not enter the labour market until late, or whether one has lived on the edge of the labour market and therefore has not been on the labour market for many years. For us, it is crucial that we maintain our ability to work. If you are not able to do an ordinary job, you must have the opportunity to go to a senior early retirement pension, and that is why it is related to our retirement age for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006165914	The next question is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006165922	Thank you. According to the OECD, which does nothing but compare countries with each other, Denmark is the country that spends the most money on education. That is why we have to ask ourselves whether it makes sense for us to put even more money into the education system, because what we would like to get out of more money is that we will have a higher quality. I would like to question whether putting more money into the education system is also higher quality. I am in line with the Productivity Commission, which was set up by the previous government and which said that Denmark cannot equate more money in the education system with higher quality. In fact, we need to focus on getting higher quality, not necessarily putting more money into the education system. Now that we are the country that spends the most money on education and also has low economic growth, it would not be sensible to spend some resources on some other things, for example. lower tax, which will give a higher economic growth? When you say you listen to economists, isn't that what you should be doing and not complaining that we are not spending much more money on the education system?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006170033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006170035	Now, of course, the Liberal Alliance has some experience of putting words into the words of the Productivity Commission, and it is quite obvious that we can get more out of the resources we use in the education sector. This is probably true for most sectors... I'll think that nowhere is it perfect. However, what I would like to question is whether you can find economists who think it is wise to plan so massively with ongoing billion savings on education in a country whose competitiveness is so heavily dependent on how talented and creative and independent our young people are. I just have to say that I also travel in Danish business and discuss their terms with them. I hear nowhere that it is called for that we spend less money on education, that we cut short, medium and long-term higher education. It is therefore a view which appears to be entirely at the expense of the Liberal Alliance itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006170128	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006170129	No, it's not a view we stand alone with. We are fully aware that we are totally dependent on having well-educated people in this country. Of course, we must have this for a large number of reasons, which are not simply linked to growth. It is, in fact, just a positive side effect of people having a high level of education. What we are questioning is whether you can just say that more money in the education system provides higher quality, because you cannot. And since we have limited resources, it is sensible for a country like Denmark that spends a lot of money on education to spend money on other things. When you say that you listen to economists, is that not what you have to do, in other words, limit resources and spend money where you get the most for them? So this is not done by spending more money on the education system, but by getting higher quality.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006170220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006170224	I would like to admit that it is not the case that just because you spend more money you necessarily get more quality, but I would like to say, on the other hand, that if the postulate is that the policy that the Liberal Alliance votes for, where you so massively cut down on all education and right now have financed a police settlement with massive savings in high schools, leads to higher quality in itself, then I think you are basically wrong. That is why the point is that in education policy, as in most other things, you get what you pay for. If you are willing to pay less, you also get less, and if you like us are willing to pay more, there is at least the possibility of achieving more. I sincerely believe that Denmark will be better off in the future if we increase the quality of our education and I do not believe that anything is free.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006170310	Time is generally a scarce resource, as is it in this debate. That is why I would recommend that all the authors and rapporteurs pay attention to the limitation of speaking time so that as many people as possible can speak. The next question in the line is Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006170323	In its own way, it might be a good thing for a future new government that the Radicals are drifting away from social democracy. It might also be interpreted by some as a weakening of the opposition, but if it means that a future S-government is less influenced by a bourgeois economic policy of the Radicals, then it is actually a gain. I am thinking in particular of the proposal by the Radicals for a higher retirement age. It is certainly an over-optimistic assessment on behalf of other people when the Radicals believe that the young carpenters, masons and blacksmiths starting in the labour market, for example. As a 17-year-old, must be able to work until they are over 72 years of age. Well, we live on average longer, we hear. But what should the worn out person or the one who dies early use such an average for? Not a snuff. Everyone should have the right to some good senior years and not like that on their last working day with a bundle of dry wood had to pass the undertaker to be disposed of immediately, although it would probably fit well into an efficient society.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006170430	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006170431	That's the way it is, sir. Karsten Hønge, that retirement age will be set up to 68 years by 2030. What we are discussing is whether we should eliminate the massive savings that we are currently cutting down on the branch with which our children are sitting, and give the opportunity to invest in more educators in our day care institutions, which I know is a view we share with SF, so that children get a better upbringing. Should we choose to prioritise in this way by raising the retirement age to 68 years already by 2025? I understand, sir. Karsten Hønge that the situation described here, with people who are to go directly from work to the undertaker, occurs exactly in the time interval between 2025 and 2030. If you first raise the retirement age by 2030, then there are no problems, then everyone is happy. But by 2025, it's a social disaster. I would just like to say that the SF should then lead itself towards a reduction in the retirement age. I just haven't heard that proposal yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006170530	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006170531	It is one of several proposals that makes life difficult for those who have the shortest education, the hardest work, the lowest wages and the longest time on the labour market. There is the proposal of the Radicals, one of several, which makes it totally over-optimistic to expect people to be able to stay on the labour market until they are over 72 years old, even if they start on the labour market at the age of 17. It is clear that the degree of opportunity to be retrained, the degree of opportunity to change jobs along the way, and the less wear and tear are linked to the long education, whereas in the short education, the hard jobs, there is considerably less chance of transforming themselves through life and could leave earlier. I think the Radicals should look at how all people get the right to some good senior years and not let those who already have the hardest job pay the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006170614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006170615	Now I think that Mr. Karsten Hønge should take a look at the statistics on how people are marginalized from the labour market at an premature age. Many people, including those with medium-term education, are unfortunately being worn out at an early age, and we should do something about that. But what I think we should do is look at people as what they are, namely people. And if you're worn out, there's got to be better conditions to retire. That is part of our proposal. But I just want to remind the SF that when we could invest in education, when we sat in government together, it was because we had made an early retirement reform that created the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006170650	The next question is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006170654	Thank you. Since I'm not doing any great hope that Mr. Morten Østergaard will confirm that we are to freeze the ground debt for 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, I am actually going to ask a different question than one about the property tax. But I would be delighted to be surprised if I could be confirmed in that in a moment. I noticed that the Radical Left in the agreement on the purchase of 27 new combat aircraft • I also think we should talk about the defence today • did a great deal to tell you that solid prints had been placed on the agreement. It scares a conservative when a radical says so about defence policy. Then I understand that 21 fighters must be bought with certainty, and then you have to take stock before you buy the last six fighters. Is it the objective of the Radicals to prevent the purchase of the last six fighter planes from an already too small number?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006170756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006170758	Let's just take it for a second about the reason. In the election campaign, we proposed that housing taxes should be accompanied by price developments. Not many people were so enthusiastic about that at the time. But now we have been overtaken by the government, because the government will both keep housing taxes going with price developments and take a profit tax when the house is sold. I understand that the Conservative People's Party has been pleased with that model in the long term. I just want to say that the world is amazing. We stood alone in the election campaign and now there is a proposal which is actually more far-reaching and which we can then agree on. I very much welcome that. And then we'll find out what's gonna happen. If we can get the fine system in the long run, we can talk about how the conditions should be going there. Back to the fighters. I can also listen to sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, that he is nervous when defence policy is put in the hands of the Radicals, but it must have become a chronic fear after one had negotiated oneself out of the defence settlement and even left it to the Radical Left to help make well the biggest defence investment for many years. But I can assure you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen says that we stand by the agreements we have made, and if the conditions are right, it is 27 fighter planes. We've just taken this with us because we have an experience that these big investments tend to be more expensive than you thought at first.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006170911	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006170912	Now we want to be able to face our soldiers afterwards, which is why we had no choice but to stand outside of this. But I'm thinking about all the missions they're on, and in the light of the funding, about what Mr. Morten Østergaard says, so isn't very realistic: that these fighter planes will probably be more expensive than expected? And if we're not going to starve the army and the Navy even more than this deal comes to, it means fewer fighter planes. I would like confirmation of this from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006170942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006170943	I mean, we can't do anything but base it on what has been put forward. And we have just said that, for us, it is crucial that it does not undermine budgets. That is why the barrier has been put in place that we will take a position again once we have invested in the first 21 combat planes. If it turns out to be more expensive than expected, it has to be said that the 42 fighter planes, as Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen wanted to be much more expensive. But I would like to say that when you say that it is for the soldiers that you are standing outside the defence settlement, it will certainly be difficult to do anything good for the soldiers when you stand outside the conciliation circle, but we will have to try that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006171020	The next question is Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006171024	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr. Morten Østergaard, what restrictions in the field of foreigners The Radical Left wants to roll back. Is it, for example, that the state has to pay again for refugees to be able to bring the family to Denmark? Is that what the Radical Left thinks should be rolled back? Should refugees again have a particularly easy access to a retirement pension? They have been in a more favourable position than Danes have in the past, because their stay in the country of origin has thus talked to them as if they had resided in Denmark, and thus they have had a special access to Danish folk pension in Denmark. Do refugees have to get a full child's check again from day one? What kind of things do you want to roll back?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006171102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006171104	It is clear that we want everything we have voted against to be changed in principle. But I'm just basically opposed to these discussions that are about rolling everything back. When I talk about a new direction, I am talking about what kind of course you want in refugee policy. It is clear that despite all my wishes that everything I have voted against will not happen anyway, there will certainly be a debate. That is also why I say that I do not demand our policy implemented from A to Z. I think people know what we think about refugee policy. I think they know very well that we have voted against virtually all the austerity that has taken place in the past parliamentary year. I think everyone knows about that. But I hope and believe that we can create a different direction, because I think we owe it to those who have come here that they will have faster integration in Denmark. And I think we owe ourselves that too, because I really think we are bigger as a society than what we have seen in the last 12 months.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006171155	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006171156	It is always good that you want a different direction, but you also need to talk about some of the concrete. That is why I think it is very reasonable that Mr. Morten Østergaard answers what these are, sir. Morten Østergaard will roll back. So, is that all that the Radical Left has voted against? The Radical Left, as I recall, has voted against all the restrictions that have been adopted since the parliamentary elections. So is it the starting point of the Radical Left that all tightenings should be rolled back? Or is there something that is seen with radical eyes more glaring than anything else and that one then wants to roll back? Should Convention refugees, who were initially able to obtain a residence permit of five years, be able to obtain a residence permit of two years' duration? In other words, what are the areas in which we want to roll back? Or is the starting point just that it all has to be rolled back? There's gotta be a way to answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006171241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006171242	But when we are asked what the Radical Left wants, it is clear that the things we have voted against are of course not suddenly in favour of. But when asked what kind of foreign policy can be pursued after election, it is the subject of a debate. I'm just saying it's gonna be a different immigration policy, among other things. because some of the things we have voted for are those that promote integration in Denmark. We have helped a tripartite agreement through which the Danish People's Party was over, because it was not important to make the foreigners self-supporting, but rather to continue to pay cash benefits to them in the years they should be here. This is a point of view which I do not understand and which I think is expensive both for the individual and for Danish society. So there is a lot of foreign policy we would like to change, and we have to discuss how much can happen with the parties we might find a majority with.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006171326	The next question is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006171329	Thank you. Now Mr. Morten Østergaard has a great deal to say about boxing in the rapporteur's speech. I have to say, I was thinking the same thing when I read today's Berlingske. I was thinking that it would seem that the Radical Left here was knocking down the Social Democracy. In any case, there were some comments from the rapporteur that the economic policy put forward by the Social Democratic Party is not very good. Mr. Morten Østergaard thus that the economic policy of the Social Democratic Party is not appropriate in the light of e.g. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he would be prepared to take part in this debate in the next part-session?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006171410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006171411	I do not think there is any boxing about the fact that opposition parties are making their position clear. We would very much like to cooperate with the current government too, but right now we have to say that when the largest support party arrives on the first day of the Folketing and demands a queen's daughter, it is quite a announcement to start the parliamentary year with. As far as our own views are concerned, what I am saying today, and which I would like to repeat here, is that I think it is untenable when the current government is pursuing economic policy by saving education. I believe that it is untenable for a future government to do so, and I do not understand why it can be said with certainty that billions will have to be spent on helping homeowners while at the same time asking their children to get by with fewer high school teachers or poorer education due to massive savings. That priority seems to me to be crooked and I do not believe it is a sustainable way of driving the country forward. That is why I do not think it is going well for the current government, and that is why we are coming up for the negotiations in the hope of getting those things done again.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006171511	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006171513	Sir. Morten Østergaard only has two options when I ask the next question: which 2025 plan does the rapporteur think is best for Denmark? Is it the Left or the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006171532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006171533	After all, I have taken the trouble to present a radical 2025 plan, and I should be a peculiar snail if I did not think that it is the one that is best to lead Denmark forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006171543	The next question is Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006171546	Yeah, thanks for that. I'd like to sign for mr. Morten Østergaard's good mood. When we had a similar debate at the end of the last parliamentary term, Mr. Morten Østergaard in a mood that could make even the happiest people run to the pharmacy with a prescription for happy pills, and I am delighted, after all, that friendly and humorous expressions like Cuba's crisis and boxing and other things are back. One can currently read in the slightly more easily-legged media that it has become a trend among young people and celebrities to go to numerologist and change name and go to dream interpretation etc. It's not something I do myself in, but I still imagine that Mr. Morten Østergaard is an intensive figure in Mrs Mette Frederiksen's dreams at the moment, and it is with the history of the Radical Left, and with the story and legend of the black tower. In order to follow up on the speech by my good colleague Mrs Anni Matthiesen a moment ago, I have to ask: if we get into a situation in the Radical Left, where we are again going to be involved in the negotiation of a government basis, will we demand that, for example, the austerity in the area of foreign policy that we have carried out and the economic policy that we have put forward in the 2025 plan will be as strong a basis for the Radical Left today as it was in 2011?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006171704	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006171705	Well, I have to say to Mr. Knox. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, that I always show up for the parliamentary year with a good mood, but that is no guarantee that you will be in a good mood when the parliamentary year is finished. We will have to look at that then, but we must always come in with optimism. Then I have such a bit of a sense of déjà vu, because a few years ago I think we are going back to 2010 or 2011 I stood as radical financial rapporteur and was for hours beaten up answer to what policy a future government would pursue. Now we are one year into the parliamentary term, and all the questions are about what policy the next government will pursue. It is certainly an illustration in itself of how scandalous it is that what is like filling something in the mind and perhaps also in the dreams or nightmares of the rapporteurs in the Left is what policy the next government will pursue. I just want to say that I still believe that the country can be managed better than what we are seeing now, but it is clear that the more radical influence, the better.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006171752	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006171753	I have to disappoint Mr. Knox. Morten Østergaard says that he has not, unfortunately, shown himself in my dreams yet, but that is to say, one can hope that it will happen in the future in a positive way. When I ask, it's not because the government is tired or visionless. I think that the overall plan for 2025 sets out a very ambitious and also important path for Denmark. I'd also like to sign for the way, sir. Morten Østergaard's party has responded to parts of the plan. But when I ask, it is due to what is the Radical Left's wish scenario as the central piece of Danish politics. And it will also, if the majority changes, form an important part of a government basis. Then the rapporteur could be a little more precise about what is best for the Radical Left - the government's overall plan or we trust Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006171834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006171835	I was able to see from the political rapporteur that he was a little out of comprehension about the wish that I should appear in Mr Beazley's report. Jakob Engel-Schmidt's dreams, but who knows? What I want to say, on the other hand, is that this is the opening debate and we are available for negotiations on the government's overall plan. And it is true that on a number of points it recalls what we said in the election campaign, which at that time was called masochism and did not want to hear about etc., and we would like to work on that. Then, of course, we just hope that it will be a result. And if it is, yes, it is, as it always is with us, that if we have made an agreement, then it will remain in force even after a choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006171912	The next question is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006171916	Thank you very much for your speech. I fully agree that it is essential that we have good opportunities to train and that our society can create knowledge at a very high level. That is why, in my view, it is absolutely stupid that the government has cut down on education and is now going to cut back on SU support. I would say that I am very pleased that in the Radical Left, the Social Democrats, the Alternative, the SF and the Enhedslisten we are united in saying no to these cuts. I would just like to hear from the rapporteur today confirm that the Radical Left will not enter into an agreement that will weaken the SU or remove the sixth SU year, so that we can go together to the next elections • when it will now be with a clear profile that the SU will be retained and that the funds for education and research will be returned.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172010	Now I have had the opportunity sometimes to mention the radical proposal for a 2025 plan, and it is completely devoid of proposals to cut the SU, and that is why we are not going to negotiate with it. But when we can't go all together anyway, it's because Enhedslisten has never been part of the SU board because you haven't wanted to take responsibility for the SU system and possibly have some ambition that it should look quite different. I think that once upon a time there was something about having the same thing in SU that you got if you were on cash benefits, but I don't know where you are today. My point is simply that we can agree with the intentions, but it will probably be us who form the conciliation circle to do the work of designing the future SU system. And there it can sometimes annoy me that Enhedslisten has not found it appropriate to take part of that responsibility in the past, because then we would have talked with more weight.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172052	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172055	I would like to stress that, when we were not in the last SU conciliation, it was because we did not want to make that deterioration in the SU area. I still do not think we should do that, so our policy is clear enough, namely that we want to improve the SU. I would just like to hear whether the Radical Left can say quite clearly: we will not be helping to cut back on the SU and we will not be helping to remove the sixth SU year so that it is quite clear that we have a common front in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172127	I would like to repeat that our ambition is not to cut back on education, but to invest in education, and that is why we have presented a plan which is a generational gift in which we increase the retirement age five years before otherwise agreed, so that we can, in return, drop the savings and invest an extra billion in education every year. We do not need to tamper with the SU system at all in order to afford it, but it is clear that for us it is a crucial priority that we can afford to invest in education, and that is why I hope that we will succeed in our negotiations in ensuring that we can stop the savings planned and turn them into real investments. And there we come up for all negotiations to achieve that goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172201	The next question is Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172206	Thank you for that, and thank you for the rapporteur's speech, where I also heard a desire for further expansion of wind energy in Denmark. I cannot, of course, say that I share the rapporteur's wish in this respect, but the rapporteur believes that one-sided focus on the expansion of wind turbines can fully meet the international CO2 reduction targets.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172234	In the scenarios that are made for how Denmark should be free of fossil fuels, there are among others. what is called the wind path, where wind energy is based as far as possible, because we have an inexhaustible source of energy there and we are the world's leader in it. We can see that it is becoming cheaper and cheaper, actually surprisingly much cheaper. Every time it has been in tenders, we have been surprised at how cheap it has become in contrast to the story that thrives elsewhere that it has become too expensive. What's left is if you can imagine that we're only using wind. No, you can't do that in that scenario either. There will also still be a need for the biomass that we can deliver ourselves, and that is why our policy is, of course, nuanced. Then we are fully aware that elsewhere in the world it may be more relevant with other technologies, and it is only good that there are different options, but our scenario for Denmark is what we call the wind path, because we firmly believe that in the long term it will provide not only the cheapest green transition, but also the greatest independence and the best and most price efficient energy supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172335	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172338	Thank you, and thank you for your answer. But can the rapporteur also comment, in view of the lack of growth in Denmark, on the message of the Environmental Economic Council that if we drop further support for wind energy, up to 5,000 jobs could be generated in Denmark in 2-3 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172402	First of all, if the government wants to stop blocking what has already been agreed about the coastal wind turbines, it will very quickly lead to concrete jobs for ordinary people who make a living from producing either as subcontractors or wind turbines producers. Then it is quite obvious that as technology matures, so that we really see prices fall, one should not continue to give support for wind energy. It can easily take care of itself on market conditions. But I would just like to remind you that, as far as I understand, we are on the way to getting large investments because our electricity prices are actually quite low in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172439	The next question is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172442	Thank you. I was happy to read my Berlingske this morning and stumbled over this article on page 6: • Østergaard: The Social Democratic Plan is not government-worthy. And then you can read: 'We may have a disagreement about what is needed in relation to foreign policy, and there we must find a compromise. But when we talk about economic policy, we are in a situation where we are losing the opportunity to shape our future. Can I conclude that the Radical Left and the Socialists are, if possible, even further apart from each other in terms of economic policy than they are in relation to foreign policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172524	I don't know what kind of measure you're gonna have to reach to get that target photo fixed. But what is central to saying here is that if you have an ambition to want more for the society that our children and grandchildren have to take over, and if you believe that investment in education rather than savings is what really allows us to create jobs at a time when two thirds of the jobs that have to be disputed by those who are in first class today have not been created at all, yes, you have to get an economy that allows you to invest in it. And there I do not think that the commandment that has been put forward will give us the ability to do so to an adequate extent. What is boring about the present government is that we could perhaps say by the commandments that have been put forward that there would be the ability to do so, but so far we have not shown the will to do so. And that is as bad as it is, because it will be at the expense of future generations.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172617	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172618	No, but I don't really care what kind of yardstick sir. Morten Østergaard will use whether it's inches or centimeters, or whatever it is we're going to rain in. But when I read this statement, it is hard to see it as anything other than a hope on the part of the Radical Left that, in the field of foreigners, where we are otherwise very far apart from each other, it should be possible to reach a compromise. But when you look at the 2025 plan of the Social Democracy, the Radical Left and the Social Democrats are so far apart that it looks very bad. Is that a completely wrong reading of the interview that Mr. Morten Østergaard has given to Berlingske?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172656	Yeah, I kind of think it is. Because what I am saying is that it is obvious that there are differences in foreign policy and that it would require a compromise to reach agreement on what it has done in the past; it is of course no new difference, whereas what I am pointing to in relation to economic policy and, above all, the possibility of abolishing the ceiling on cash aid and turning training savings into investment, is that it will require a different economic policy from that which has been put forward to lead the country in that direction. You simply want to run out of money in relation to the ambitions you have to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172729	The next question is Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172732	I will then stay on the same street, because it is actually quite paradoxical. In other words, it is not just any area we are talking about, it is economic policy, and it is, in some way, the foundation of many of the other things that we are discussing, how much we need to invest in health, education, tax relief and what it is all called. And this is like the framework for the basis on which to work together. And then we have the Radical Left, which states that the party they want to make Prime Minister's Party is government useless. Well, that is what it says in Berlingske, and I assume that is correctly quoted. The Radicals do not believe that the fundamental policies of the Socialists are appropriate in terms of being in government. In the face of this, we have the overall plan of the Left, and I acknowledge that the Radicals have actually praised many of the parts of the overall plan. It is not the case that we agree on everything, but I did not expect that either, but I still sign for the reception that the Radicals have given to that plan. I am therefore surprised that the Radicals then insist on continuing to point to the Prime Minister's candidate, because in today's Berlingske it is stated that what is the whole foundation of the policy that the Prime Minister, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, is going to pursue is useless. - Sir... Morten Østergaard lifted a little of the veil to that logic?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172844	Well, I think that there is a tendency to • and it's best known from the Left itself that when you're in opposition, responsibility doesn't weigh as much as when you're in government. That is why they refused to look at the retirement age and described it as pure masochism and that they would not even hear talk of regulating housing taxes if a new government came to all the things that have now been proposed, because they have come in and been given responsibility. And that is the analysis I am making today, on behalf of a future government, that the same conclusion will be reached. And what I am trying to do on behalf of my party is to ensure that the line is the same and that what we say is the same when we are opposition and when we are in government. That is why I am simply trying to reconcile the expectations of which economic policy can be operated under a new government, and that will require more decisions than just using the proceeds that have been generated.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172935	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006172936	I think that this is a very positive thing to demand, given that we are going to get there at all. But then I would just like to ask a question that my good colleague Mrs Anni Matthiesen asked a moment ago. I know that, of course, the radical rapporteur is • of course, it just lacked • believe that his own 2025 plan is the best, that is, it would be strange other. But when you have to assess what the alternative to your own plan is, because you can't expect to get everything of your own policy through, sir. Morten Østergaard saw such a concrete assessment of whether this is the plan put forward by the Left, that is to say the overall plan, and as Mr. Morten Østergaard has praised, or whether it is the plan that Mrs Mette Frederiksen has put forward and which Mr. Morten Østergaard has called not fit to be a government base?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006173013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006173014	I would say that large parts of the funding elements that are in the government's plan are, of course, similar to what I said myself in the election campaign, and that is why, of course, I think it is positive. But I must also note, despite the disagreement over the very large savings in education, that after all the Socialists will not cut back on vocational training, as the government will, and that the Socialists are watching over the green transition, the government does not do that and also the expansion of public transport. So it has to be said that when it comes to what priorities should be made when resources are provided, there may be a greater consensus there. And that just leads me to say that the truth is probably somewhere in the middle, but there it usually ends when you get the negotiations started.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006173057	The next question is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006173100	Thank you. I would also like to ask about the SU, because it is of course a great concern to us, and we are glad that we can sort of stand together in the fight against SU cuts. I also recognize when Mr. Morten Østergaard says that the starting point for the Radicals is not that you want to cut back on the SU. I have read the plan of the Radicals from one end to the next and know that the SU savings are not part of it. But I also know the Radicals as a reformant party. Morten Østergaard himself has been out to say and a party where one sees oneself in a broad agreement. So what I really just want to ask is: can you radicals and can Mr. Morten Østergaard see himself in a broad 2025 agreement if there are SU savings? I know that this is not the starting point of the Radicals, but can one accept it if it is part of a broad agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006173153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006173155	I will reply in that way that what is at the heart of us is, of course, whether we can turn savings on education into investment. That's what we're going to go to these negotiations with. If we can agree to raise the pensionable age for a whole year by 2025, that will solve a large part of the challenge. If we can agree in 1⁄2 years, it will also solve a large part of the challenge. That is why this is the point of reference we have, i.e. the quality of training, the investment in them. That is why I can say that the proposal put forward by the government and the way in which the proceeds are used, I do not see that we are adding votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006173233	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006173235	Thank you. After all, sport has almost gone on demanding that a future government withdraw all sorts of things, and perhaps it is also in our own bloc. Something that will be important for SF, I can say, is that if there are SU savings, if there is suddenly an SU saving of 3.3 billion, which is added up, then it will be important for SF to have it rolled back after a choice. Do you radicals share that ambition? Will that also be a key requirement for the Radicals?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006173304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006173305	In other words, it is such a double hypothetical question that if an agreement is reached that we do not know and if there is a majority that we do not know what we will think in that situation. I think it will be very advanced to conduct politics in this way. We think the same thing when we are in government and opposition, and what we think is that more investment should be made in education, that no cuts should be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006173324	Thank you. The last brief remark is from Mr Seligman. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006173329	Thank you. The radical President has expressed outrage at the discussion which my friend Mr. Martin Henriksen had in the debate, where he answered the question as to whether this student council chairman is Danish or not. Sir. Martin Henriksen correctly says that he doesn't know, he doesn't know him. That is a perfectly normal answer. The radical rapporteur then uses Hans Christian Andersen in his quote: In Denmark I was born, there I have home. But he forgets the addition: there I am, from where my world goes. ▪ It continues:... where the language is my mother's soft voice and as a sweet music my heart when • from where my world goes. Does the radical President really believe that everyone, just because they were born in the country, should be called Dane, even if they are Turkish parents who, in rage, take their children out of their local school in protest against something that happens 2,500 km away? Are they Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006173431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006173433	After all, we have come to know Jens Philip Yazdani because his family relationship has subsequently been skinned, and I believe that Mr. Martin Henriksen has had the opportunity to review his statements and that he has not found, I think, any reason for them • despite the fact that the mother's voice turned out to be West Jutland, because the mother is also Danish. It has been estimated that he could get his Iranian father's last name, for they said at the time when he was born 18-20 years ago that in 20 years' time no one will care about that kind of thing in Denmark. I find it deeply regrettable that this is the case today. At any rate, I can say with certainty that I could never dream of leaving it to Mr. Søren Espersen or Mr. Søren Espersen? Martin Henriksen to decide who is Danish and who is not. It must be a question of whether, for the country of origin, you have a fire, as someone else said.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006173522	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006173523	But the question is, how could Mr. Martin Henriksen knows anything about it when he got the question of someone he didn't even know? Is it the case that we just have to accept the Dane preacher well away, regardless of what kind of people we have for us, whether it is a Palestinian who brings up his homeland's disputes and shoots people down in front of the synagogue in Krystalgade, whether or not it is Turkish parents who are pulling their children out of school in protest against something that happens 2,500 km away? Is it Danes also in the radical president's optics? It's not in my optics.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006173605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006173606	What is the crucial dividing line is who will assess who is Dane. Is that sir? Søren Espersen and Mr. Martin Henriksen at Dansk Folkeparti's group meeting, who is now good enough, whether the pedigree is clean enough to be Danish? Or, as I say, is it a question of whether, in Grundtvig's words, we have had an e-mail exchange about the language's ear and for the country's fire? What I am saying is that what matters is whether you consider yourself to be part of the Danish people. Of course you have to have Danish passports and all the other things. But the point is that it will not work if we turn it into mind control, which means that we have to sit in this Parliament with the ruling majority at all times and decide who is Danes and who is not. I can't do that. It's ruining us.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006173649	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006173701	If you listen too long to the Prime Minister and the rest of the blue block, you quickly get the impression that things are bad in Denmark. We need to cut down on the costs of students, we do not have the money for and employ nurses and SOSU assistants enough to help the future elderly. We can no longer afford to invest in green energy and poison-free foods. We must make thousands of children poor because, according to the Left, the recipients of cash benefits must finance the necessary tax rebates for the richest. The Prime Minister and the rest of the blue parties are busy talking Denmark far below the floorboards. But is our welfare society really the sinking ship drawn by the Prime Minister? It is true that we still need to get growth going, and it is a bottom-up task to create jobs and train more people. But have we really become so poor a country that we can no longer put people's well-being and our environment and climate first? Have we really become so poor that our children have to keep up with fewer adults to plow or blow on a wounded knee in kindergarten? Have we become so poor that we have to accept that nurses must give patients extra tranquilizers to get through a day of massive understaffing at all? Have we become so poor that we have to push 5 minutes of work a day out of disabled and sick citizens who should have help instead of being whipped into the labour market? Have we become so poor that we have to withdraw from the United Nations quota system to ensure that the weakest refugees in the refugee camps have the opportunity to live a good life? Have we become so poor that we no longer dare to be among the world's leading green nations who dare to demand clean and healthy food for all? You'd think so if you'd listen to the Prime Minister and look at what his government is proposing. He will cut back on all the areas that have made Denmark a country that envys the whole world. This is done because of our strong welfare society, which grabs us when we fall, because of an ambitious climate and environmental policy designed for the benefit of its citizens and future generations, and not to please industry and agriculture. This is because we have a labour market in which companies and employees agree on common ground rules for the benefit of the whole of Denmark. They do because we have some of the world's most creative and talented companies. The left will wind up the success. You want to distribute tax rebates to those who already have plenty and fund them, by means of the fact that we all have to work a little longer and retire a little later. I guess it's a matter of feeling the worn-out citizen who's been working hard on a scaffold since he was 16. You want to destroy the SU system, which has meant that we Danes are one of the world's best educated people. People who are already on the edge of our society will be pushed even further into poverty. Does the Left and the Prime Minister of the country really believe that we are so poor a society? I believe that the Left is fundamentally wrong. Denmark has grown strongly because we have dared to invest in each other, in our nature and in lifting in flock. It is a Denmark where we have always put people and the common good above short-term economic interests. We have dared to rely on good kindergartens and crèches, that there are enough staff in our hospitals, on an absolutely necessary climate effort, healthy food, a rich cultural life. No, the Prime Minister's cut-off plan is probably more about priorities. The Left has plenty of money when it comes to giving tax rebates to those who already have plenty. There was no narrowneck when last year the richest heirs were given a tax rebate, just as it was made cheaper to buy a Porsche or BMW. At the same time, the Left claims that a policy is being pursued for the ordinary Dane and not for the director of Strandvejen. But is it true? In the 2025 plan, the Left provides top tax relief for 3.2 billion. kr. You make sure that people with stock incomes get a big win of just under 1 billion. kr. The Prime Minister's pension bonus also lurks very well in the lining of first and foremost the top tax payers. But does it get a lot of Danes to work? I have asked the Minister for Finance, and he answers in black and white, that top tax reliefs will get 50 more people into work. Fifty people. The tax on the last earned crown has already been reduced. In 2001, it was 63.4%. This year it is 56.4%. In the same period productivity in Denmark has grown very slowly. Why would it suddenly become a miracle cure to lower the top tax? Therefore, the vast majority of Danes also respond when asked that they do not want discounts to the richest. Rather, they want better day care, better hospitals, better home care, better education and more research. I fully agree with the Danes. That's why SF wants another way. SF will strengthen the welfare, SF will invest in our children and grandchildren, SF will invest in our common climate, and SF will invest in the community. That is why SF proposes that we archive the Left's 2025 plan vertically and instead of aiming for a massive welfare boost and once again getting climate and environmental policy back on track. If we introduce a welfare contribution and step up our efforts against tax havens and tax cheating, we can raise welfare by about an extra 60 billion. kr. For the next 10 years. It is a significant welfare boost that will be felt by young people who grow up in homes with alcohol problems, by citizens who get sick from going to work, and by young people who need an extra hand in order to be able to cope with an education. A welfare contribution will mean that those who have the least will contribute little, while those who have more will increase their share. A typical LO worker will contribute approx. 50 kroner. a month, a director's family with 227 kroner. Why do we ask the Danes to contribute more when the blues believe that Denmark cannot survive without tax relief? We do so because we believe that many people would like to give a flat 50 if it means that there are enough teachers in the nursery and kindergarten, that all children have a healthy lunch and a better school, that all those who have received the least education can qualify and become part of the working community. Where the blue parties will make people on the edge of society poorer, we will invest in them. We will equip far more people to have the life they want and become part of the community in the labour market. Is it worth it? The blue parties will probably ask that in a moment. The short answer is: It just doesn't pay to leave it alone. When we relax prevention, when we relax early efforts for children and young people, it costs society and, above all, the individual human being dearly when the problems pile up. The first year of the life of a exposed child is absolutely crucial for the rest of the child's life. If we can help the child in the maternity ward, the nurse, the kindergarten or the kindergarten class, we have come a long way. The lack of investment in welfare over a number of years has created a vicious circle in which pressured budgets mean further cuts, which put more people outside the Community. It is time to break the vicious circle, to settle with the accounting models of the Ministry of Finance, so that children, education, good working conditions and other prevention are seen as investments and not as today as expenditure. The same principle applies to investment in the environment and climate. SF has proposed two new offshore wind farms over the next 10 years so that we can get cleaner air and combat climate change, but also to invest in more jobs. Here we are putting forward a clear alternative to blue block tax relief and black policy as the way to more growth and prosperity. Now the Left will probably claim that I am closing my eyes to Denmark's challenges. My answer is: on the contrary. We need to get growth going. We must create jobs. We need to stop the gap in the Danish and international tax laws so that the big companies and the rich don't cheat us, the community, for billions. We are still away only at the beginning when it comes to bridling multinational companies and financial capital. Our planet screams for green, innovative solutions and more sustainable food production. This work must be carried out in a strong European community. A small country like Denmark has no opportunity to solve that problem alone. In general, it would be good to see a government that takes responsibility for the common European development. Small countries have no influence alone. You can have a lot to say if you use the EU system skillfully. We have a huge task ahead of us, but we cannot solve it by failing all the values that have made Denmark strong. On the contrary, these are the values on which we must build the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006174627	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we begin with the brief remarks, and the first one is from Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006174633	Thank you very much. And thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for her speech. Wow, man, having wiped the slate clean! In other words, one should simply believe that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr had not been a trade minister with the tirade against multinational companies. You'd almost think with the prayer that more people are going out in the day care institutions that SF wasn't sitting in a government where 3,000 educators were fired. One would almost think that with this miracle cure, which we apparently on my side of the fence believe it would be to lower the top tax, it could have been the same as SF thought when you sat in government and lowered the top tax, by the way, just financed by those 2.2 billion. kr., you cut the SU down with, which would be absolutely horrible to do now. I just think this is one of the most sorry words hypocritical I've heard in this hall for a very, very long time. Can Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr confirm that there were some other buns on the soup when Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr was in government not long ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006174732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006174734	No, there were exactly the same balls on the soup, I can confirm the rapporteur in that. When it comes to multinational companies, I, as trade minister, have helped to ensure that there are companies that have settled in Denmark. They have chosen to put their companies in Denmark • Biogen, BGI and other large pharmaceutical companies • precisely because Denmark can deliver on well qualified labour. It has always been our starting point that some of what Denmark has to live on and some of what we have to cope with in future competition is not low taxes and low wages. That is not what has made Denmark rich. That is what is inside people's minds, and that is why we must continue to invest in education and research. When it comes to educators, it is true that the municipalities have chosen to reduce the number of educators. What did we do while we were in government? We set 750 million. kr. more of a year to the municipalities, so that you could invest in the children's area. We had to acknowledge that some municipalities did not. They chose to invest in something else. It was unwise, and when we dropped the last quarter of a million, we made it very targeted, so that we invested in educators. What the government is doing now is cutting down on welfare, which means fewer educators out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006174839	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006174840	So it simply means that when Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr sat in government and earmarked a lot of money for the children's area, it was the evil municipalities who did not understand that they had to spend the money on more educators, and the evil, terrible mayors and city councillors who simply fired the educators to the great regret of the then-existing government comprehendably. But now it is the evil government that has come into being that simply does not have control over forcing the municipalities to do what we want, or what? Excuse me, but I think it calls for a little self-examination.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006174914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006174915	It is now sweet to hear the rapporteur. I get that feeling of being in it with big bear and little bear and middle bear. I do not really know which of them the rapporteur of the Left is, but I get the feeling that I am about to steal my porridge. But leave it alone. It's a little cozy anyway. I would say that what we did in the field of children was that we invested massively. Then we had to acknowledge that the first half billion we dropped off did not use the municipalities to hire more educators. They used it to further train them, and they sometimes chose to set courses in motion across municipalities and other areas, but it was not used for educators. We learned this from the second round, which is why we targeted it as educators. I am not allowed to say anything more on behalf of the President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006174957	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006175003	Thank you. I understand from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr that high taxes in Denmark do not keep companies away at all. They all come here because we have good childcare, good schools and health care, which may also be good according to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Can Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr perhaps explain the case of Apple's location in Viborg and Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's own role there in persuading Apple to move to Viborg by promising Apple that there would be a reduction in the PRS tax and similar taxes that Apple would have paid if Pia Olsen Dyhr's government and Pia Olsen Dyhr had not intervened themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006175051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006175052	It is true that I visited Apple in California and just talked to them about placing their data centre in Denmark. We did so on the basis of a discussion about whether you can use the district heating in a wiser way, whether you can use some of the excess heat from the cooling of these data centres. That's what Apple was interested in. They were concerned about whether they could strengthen their green profile in relation to e.g. some of their competitors. I think, sir. Ole Birk Olesen looks very short-sightedly at it when he thinks that it alone is tax that makes large multinational companies place themselves in Denmark. It's not my experience. When I have met with them and discussed with them, it has been about either a green profile or well-educated labor. When it came to Apple, they've been very clear. What they said to me was that they wanted to have a green profile, for example. in connection with landfills where they could use the methane gas. That's why they first placed themselves in India. Now they have chosen to place themselves in Viborg because they could just get a share in some of the cooling heat that is in connection with district heating.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006175155	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006175156	But it is not I who speak so categorically as when Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr claims I should have said that taxes are the only thing companies concentrate on when they place themselves somewhere. I'm saying it's part of the overall picture. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, on the other hand, speaks very categorically when she says that tax has no bearing on whether companies place themselves in Denmark. And we can see from the Apple case that the government, which Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr was involved in, and which she led in these negotiations with Apple, was even very accommodating to Apple's desire that the charges should be different from what Apple should have paid.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006175232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006175233	Firstly, I am not categorical in saying that taxes are of no importance. I never said that. I have said that this is not why international companies choose to place themselves in Denmark, if you ask them yourself. I think that is very thought-provoking. Instead of that, sir. Ole Birk Olesen claims one thing and I claim the other, you can ask them yourself. I did so as trade minister, and their answer was clear: No. 1 was well-educated labour. Then there were other things, and I think baby came in eighth place. So it is not because that is what is at the top of their agenda. When it comes to Apple, I never mentioned the PRS tax, and the interesting thing is that it was not a government I sat in that abolished the PRS tax. SF still wants a PRS tax in Germany.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006175315	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next, sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006175321	I would like to ask about the ceiling on cash benefits and thank you for a speech which, moreover, contained a great many good elements, including in relation to the ceiling on cash benefits, which is awful because it affects many thousands of people now here from 1 October. Many will be plunged into poverty, many will be forced to move, many will experience very serious consequences of it. After all, it is no secret that there are two proposals for adoption by the opposition here today. We in the Enhedslisten felt that it was very important to put maximum pressure on the last party in the opposition, which is not in favour of rolling back the cash aid ceiling. That is precisely what is then the difference between the proposal for adoption put forward by four opposition parties and the one put forward by the Enhedslisten. The difference is precisely that in Enhedslistens it says that that is why we want to roll back the cash aid reform. My question to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is this: which of the two proposals for adoption is the rapporteur's most political agreement on content?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006175431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006175432	SF is behind the adoption we have made. That's the way it is. If I were to mention all the things I want to change that this government has done, it's not small things. Then it is not just the cash aid ceiling that I think is awful. There should be no doubt about that. That is what our proposal for adoption says. I also think it's a problem that this government is increasing CO2 by 2020 if this development continues to go down to 31%. instead of the 40-percent target that I helped set for Denmark when we were in government. I think that is also a crucial objective. If you had to do that, you could risk that the proposal for adoption would not be far enough. There should be no doubt that I want to abolish the ceiling on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006175513	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006175515	I know. I just think it is worth saying that the two proposals for adoption are completely identical with the one exception, that the proposal put forward by Enhedslisten also states that the parties involved in that proposal will roll back the cash aid ceiling. I think it is important that, since it is now the case that there are four parties in the opposition who actually believe that this should happen, why should the four parties not vote in favour of a proposal for adoption which puts maximum pressure on the last party in the opposition for this to happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006175550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006175551	I noted that, hopefully, our future Prime Minister, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, at the Social Democratic Congress, said very clearly that he was naming me if that did not happen. I'm sure of it. It is a demand on the part of the SF that we abolish the ceiling on cash benefits. I hear it's also for the Enhedslisten. So I guess we're not gonna form a common front there. This is so crucial because in these days a great many people are being made poor, not least the 7,000 children we have talked about over and over again.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006175617	Thank you. And the last brief remark before we have a bit to eat is from Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006175625	Now we've got a little something to eat, so I can pull it a little bit. After all, I also heard the rapporteur's speech and it certainly got full throttle. There was a lot wrong in society, and I understand that everything that has gone wrong has happened over the past year. One day we can have a conversation about how municipal Denmark worked, also a few years ago I would claim that I know it very well. But that's not what I'm gonna ask. There must be law and order in Denmark, and troublemakers must be put down. We have many parallel societies, and one of them is Christiania. I just want to know if the rapporteur agrees with the Conservative People's Party in our three proposals on what to do on Christiania: video surveillance of Pusher Street, a mobile police station at Christiania and an extended masking ban on the whole of Christiania. This is so that we can really get law and order back to the place in the country where it has been lacking in everything, for too many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006175731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006175732	I fully agree with Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen in that it is important that law and order also prevail at Christiania; there should be no doubt about that. I thought it was really positive that the Christians cleared Pusher Street. They are to be commended for taking the lead in this. And that is where I think it is crucial that we, as a society, subsequently back up the Christians, among others. by making sure that there is a police effort at Christiania because it cannot be the responsibility of the Christianites alone to keep Pusher Street down.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006175805	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006175807	Yes, better late than never, it can be said, compared to Christiania's initiative. I agree that, in the current situation, we as a society must, of course, ensure that there is law and order and that the police can, of course, get there everything the police want. I choose to take it as an indication that the SF now also supports the idea of getting a mobile police station out there so you can be safe. What can make you feel more comfortable than seeing the police nearby? Let us fight the criminals and get as visible a police force as possible. I appreciate the commitment to this kind of interpretation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006175842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006175843	Well, my daughter always goes around saying, "The police are our friends." I think that's something she learned from her father from childhood. And I think that is a very good way of life. The police are our friends, and they're making a huge effort. Whether or not there should be a mobile police intervention on Christiania, I think is a police assessment. You have to assess how best to handle it. I think it's important that we back the Christians who wanted to get their hands on Pusher Street. After all, you have shown civil courage by pushing the rockers out, because that is what we are talking about. These are gangs that have so much dominated Christiania.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006175924	Thank you. We shall therefore postpone the sitting until 1 p.m. 7:00 p.m., so there's a chance to pick up supplies.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006190011	The sitting is resumed. It is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr who has the floor, but she needs some questions in order to move forward. Next on the list, sir. Carsten Kudsk from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006190027	The rapporteur's party, the SF, was, of course, part of what is called the early retirement reform under the previous government, and we can hear that you are quite crazy about the ceiling on cash benefits. However, we do agree that the early retirement reform was actually responsible for the fact that very, very many sick people ended up in the cash benefits system and that many of them, when they are married, have also suffered twice as much. So what I would like to ask the rapporteur is: do you regret being involved in the early retirement reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006190112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006190113	No, we do not, because the idea of early retirement reform itself was that you should walk away from the cashier's thinking and then say: Now we just put people who are sick on early retirement. Some people can actually work and really want to, and there it is very important to look at the individual. So SF fought hard to ensure that there were resource sequences. What we are then sorry about is what has happened, and I think that we and the Danish People's Party agree entirely that it has been decided to use these work tests in relation to everyone who has to be tested for early retirement, and that this happens, despite the fact that there are medical declarations that some people cannot handle a job. That seems unreasonable to us. And in this way we have said that we are willing to look at the reform, we are willing to change it, we want to negotiate, and we have called for this to happen this autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006190207	Sir. Carsten Kudsk.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006190209	What, then, will the rapporteur say to the very, very many sick people who, as I said, are waiting to get a flex job because it is difficult to get a flex job? On top of that, they are going to compete with low-paid refugees in relation to the tripartite agreement. So what is the rapporteur's position on this, and what will she say to those people who are currently ill and who do not have a proper basis for living?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006190232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006190234	I fully agree with Mr. Carsten Kudsk in that it's shameful. Two thirds of the people on cash benefits are actually ill and cannot therefore get to work, but they are also affected by the ceiling on cash benefits. Whip people who don't stand a chance. The Danish People's Party can do something about this, since the Danish People's Party has voted for the cash aid reform and therefore has the opportunity to say that if people are categorized as being ready for activity, they can be exempted in the municipalities. There are some municipalities that have chosen to do so, that is by no means everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006190305	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006190308	In the Radical Left, we look forward to the 2025 negotiations, because this is an opportunity to make our policy a reality and to have more educators and better education. But unfortunately, we are a little alone with this desire to have more educators. The government has chosen to cut back. But SF is one of the parties that has also made a plan to get more educators. Therefore, I would like to know whether SF will go in and lend a hand if we actually succeed in the negotiations in getting more educators, or whether SF has just signed off from the negotiations in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006190340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006190342	SF always comes to the negotiations we are invited to. There must certainly be an outstretched hand for the Prime Minister. There should be no doubt that children are heart blood for SF. We want better standards in both our day nurseries and kindergartens. It should be the case in our day nurseries that there is a teacher for three children and that in our kindergartens there is a teacher for six children. We need minimum standards, no doubt about that. But that is not what the government is proposing in their 2025 plan, so I think it may be a little blue-eyed by the Radical Left to believe that minimum standards can be guaranteed through savings in cash aid, the SU and savings towards some of those who have the least in this country, while at the same time granting tax rebates to the richest. But if we can change the whole way the government thinks, there should be no doubt that the SF would like to run.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006190427	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006190430	After all, there is no party that can get their entire policy through, and the exercise we are facing with the 2025 plan is both about where we need to find the money and what we want to spend it on. And the Radical Left is entering into the negotiations with a main demand to want more educators and better education. It will help if the SF actually takes on the task and wants to take part, but it will also help to find some of the funding. So am I to understand that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr would like to help fight for more educators and better education, but also to take responsibility for finding funding?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006190506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006190507	I cannot understand why the Radical Left has jumped on the wrong side of thinking that if we save on those who have the most difficulty in our society we can create funding for more educators. Actually, there are other options. We have proposed in our 2025 plan that we collect what is called a welfare contribution, that we strengthen our efforts against tax havens and tax cheating, and that we spend the money on, among other things. More educators, so we deliver on the standards. It doesn't have to be the weakest in society who have to pay for this. In other words, we can resolve this in a more united way. Now I also know that we are in the SF and that solidarity may be something else for the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006190549	Then it's mr. Hans Andersen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006190553	Thank you. We are talking a lot about the housing tax system at the moment, and we are concerned about creating calm and security around housing taxes and thus for the property owners. However, I would like to know whether the rapporteur might be able to unfold the SF's approach to this issue a little. Is it true that the SF believes that there should be such an extra tax, that is to say a new extra tax, in relation to the property valuation tax, and that a gain should also be paid if a property is sold? Because what this is about here for the Left is creating maximum security, and what I am listening to the SF suggests is not exactly something that creates security. But I just need confirmation that SF will increase current housing taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006190648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006190650	What the SF has proposed is that we should not continue to freeze the property tax, which the government has introduced up to 2020, but that, instead, over the next 20-year period, we should slowly phase it in with inflation, thereby also keeping the root cause calm. For what has happened, by the fact that the property tax is frozen, is that the root cause has increased, yes, almost to heaven. Some of the pensioners who sit in their own homes feel the pressure on their economy. They need more tranquillity around it. We propose a phase-in of 20 years and, as you can see in our proposal, we imagine that the first year will be an increase of approx. 240 kroner, if you live in an ordinary house for 3-4 million. kr. But I'm a little puzzled when mr. Hans Andersen mentions an extra tax when selling his house, because I think that's what the government itself has suggested that if you've got a bigger prize, you actually have to deliver. Well, then, sir. Hans Andersen against the government's own proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006190753	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006190754	For the Left, it is about security about what to pay in housing tax, and it is not quite clear to me what SF's proposal here is exactly about. Now Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and I have been elected in Northern Zealand for a number of years, and Nordsjælland is very diverse: there are some who have expensive housing and there are also cheaper homes. This certainly doesn't create any more security. So how many extra billions will SF tax the property owners with? It is a very simple question: how many extra billions will SF tax the property owners with?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006190832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006190834	Well, we don't want to tax the property owners by extra billions. What we are going to do is say that the freezing of property tax over a 20-year period must be eased slowly. We must follow inflation and slowly step it in, and at first it will not even be equal to 5%. It is for an ordinary home owner approx. 240-400 kr. a year. It can be done. And notice that I said percent, I didn't say percentage points. I think that is very important because there have been many misunderstandings, and it may also be a little difficult sometimes to know the difference between percentage and percentage points.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006190906	Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006190909	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. After all, it was held over an hour ago, so if I have to pick up on it, it seems that according to the SF's view, what Denmark should live on in the future is its expenses. Since 1960 public consumption has grown steadily. That was barely 10%. of GDP then, and today it is barely 30 per cent. Cuts in the overall frame are a myth. There have never been permanent cuts in public spending. That is why my question is this: can Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr tell me when public spending is high enough? It's going to be 35%. of GDP? Or should it be 40, or should it be 50, or should it be a whole other number?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006191003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006191005	I'm thinking that sir... Henrik Dahl can get a copy of my speech afterwards. Because it is clear that Mr. Henrik Dahl didn't get it all. What we are proposing that Denmark should live on is what we have lived on over the past many years: knowledge and skills for people, among other things. From unskilled to skilled. We know that by 2020 we will have far too many unskilled people, which is why we already need to train them for skilled workers. In addition, we must recognise that we will not have raw materials. We have a little bit of oil right now, but we do not have that in relation to our big accounts, which is why we need to invest in research and our creativity. That is what Denmark must live on. Then one should be in no doubt that some of the things that create the opportunity for people to be creative and productive are that they have security in everyday life; that they know that they can deliver their children into day care institutions without being worried about whether there is one educator for 18 children, or for that matter that their elderly, perhaps their parents, are being cared for, and that there is indeed time for them, including in everyday life. It's called quality of life. I think that is important in order to be productive as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006191109	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006191111	Thank you. That's just not what I asked. What was the question was: how much public spending should be? Just set in full percentages.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006191125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006191126	Sir. Henrik Dahl. The first question asked was: What should Denmark live on? And then Mr. Henrik Dahl to answer that Denmark must live on public expenditure. That is why I thought it appropriate to tell you that this was not what the SF wanted. That was the answer to one part. The answer to the second part, that is to say, to how much public consumption should be, is that I am not in favour of public consumption necessarily increasing, because I also believe that private consumption should increase and that we should have a balance between the private sector and the public sector. We cannot live by a public sector alone; we also need to strengthen the private sector. What strengthens it? Well, that makes us have strong public investment, such as... If we could get a Måbjergværk over at Holstebro it would create thousands of jobs. Excuse me, Chairman.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006191212	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006191217	That is correct. I just want to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr of the SF, Socialist People's Party, if she can remember back in history. We have to go back a long way, we have to go back more than a year, that is, to the time when we had elections. Can Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr remember who was Prime Minister then? And can Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr even remember that she herself was a member of the government which thus sat until just over a year ago and voluntarily chose to withdraw from that government? Because when you heard the speech, it was a little difficult not to sit and wonder why just some of the many things that were mentioned in the rapporteur's speech were not carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006191306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006191307	I sense that we are on a quiz theme now, and I would like to answer both questions. Yes, I certainly recall who the Prime Minister was Helle Thorning-Schmidt who was a Social Democrat. And yes, I was a minister. In fact, I had four ministerial posts in the previous government. I have been Minister for Trade and Investment, Minister for the Environment, Minister for Health and Transport. I think that was the answer to the rapporteur's question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006191331	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006191333	I would just like to know whether the explanation was that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr was simply so busy smoking from ministry to ministry and getting to grips with things and finding out where the coffee machine was and what the secretary's name was and so on that she didn't get any of her policies implemented at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006191350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006191351	I think it's an unbelievable arrogance, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen shows off. If you look at the previous government and the industrial policy which, among other things, includes: was led to strengthen our positions in the world, so it was a clear transcript of SF's policy that we should know that what we do for a living is companies that, for example: is strong in the field of health, which is strong in the environment, which is strong in the water sector. It is precisely with these strengthened positions and with a very determined effort that we have helped to create more jobs. One example is in Beijing, where we have set up an energy centre which means that the Chinese are developing an energy policy that makes them dependent on renewable energy, among other things. based on a Danish effort that ensures that we deliver among other things. Danish technology to China.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006191438	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard from the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006191441	Thank you. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's party was this summer proposing that Danish children should have breakfast in schools. They should, because there are some parents who are unable to provide their children with proper breakfast from home. We are opposed to this in the Conservative People's Party, because we do not believe that parental responsibility will cease at the moment when you return your children to school. That is why we are also opposed to forced homework cafes, etc. I would like to hear from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr whether her party believes, as the newspaper says in a speech by the Chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, that all children are the responsibility of society. In this regard, there are also some parents who are not able to brush their children's teeth properly either, in fact, get 14 per cent. of all Danish children only brushed teeth once a day, so I have brought a toothbrush, and then I will hear Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr if she wants all children to have brushed their teeth at school as well. And in fact, one in three children gets too little sleep in school, so I would also like to hear Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr: Are the children also going to sleep in school? And if there are some parents who do not make sure that their children get enough sleep, should not all parents be punished for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006191600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006191601	I think that Mrs Mette Abildgaard knows very well that there are limits to what society should be involved in, but the point of breakfast in schools is, of course, that we in society have a great interest in the children coming to school learning that they should not spend the first 3-4 hours during the day having a rumbling belly and could not learn anything. It is simply a good investment to ensure that they can concentrate. In addition, we must recognise that not all parents ensure that their children receive food in their stomachs. There are simply some who, with the ceiling on cash benefits that this government has introduced, are not actually fed. I think you're underestimating it. Maybe it's because of the company you have. Maybe you're underestimating what this has to do with ordinary people. 7,000 children are sent into poverty. It is not so bad even to make sure that they also get some meal during the day.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006191656	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006191658	It was still a new limit on what this cash aid ceiling can be accused of contributing to. But there are also children who do not get enough sleep at night, as I mentioned earlier. One third of all children do not get enough sleep, half of all children between the ages of 7 and 9. It also affects learning. So shouldn't we ask them to sleep in school? And then I would like to mention that these 250 million. kr., you'll spend on it, could actually pay a lot of social workers. If you make it up, it's 744 years old. That would mean, in average, more than seven per person. municipality. Does Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr not think that it would be a more targeted effort to do something to help vulnerable children who may also have other problems than just not having breakfast with them from home? Wasn't the money really better spent that way?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006191745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006191746	It is probably a fundamental difference between the Conservative People's Party and the Socialist People's Party, namely that we believe in prevention. The fact that we know that when we invest in ensuring that the children are fed means that we do not need to use our powers to fix their problems later on. They get learning and there is a greater chance that they learn mathematics and also learn to spell until they get out of school and have to have a youth education. It's a good investment. And no, I don't expect Mrs. Mette Abildgaard to have enough toothbrushes to fix that toothbrush problem. I think Mrs Mette Abildgaard came to say sleep at school, but I think it is sleep at night. Right now there is actually a campaign in all the primary schools in Denmark, where you decide how much the children sleep. So something is being done by society to help children sleep, and I would like to thank the Minister for Education for that initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006191836	Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006191840	Thank you. Frankly, I was a little worried about Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's health in the platform, and this is about the part relating to memory. For the facts are that when SF sat in government, they gave tax relief to those who had the most, and took from those who had the least. But the rapporteur forgets that. Something else is the reviled early and flex job reform, which resulted in it being stated here in the paper 3F • that 31 have been given jobs after resource progression, 35 have died. Then it's above: "The victims of the reform of the CAP." It's been a year since this article was published. And it seems very strange that the rapporteur does not remember what the SF itself did when they were in government. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur: what specific changes will the SF make to the early and flexible job reform so that people do not have time to die before they can even receive an early retirement pension?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006191946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006191947	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl says I have amnesia or whatever. I don't. I remember what we were doing in the government. We mourned, among other things. for a tax reform where the pensioner received 5,000 kroner. more a year. In fact, it is a group which has little money in its hands. I think that was an excellent proposal. We also saw to it that the single parent of children, who is in work, some of those who earn the least in our society, received a greater allowance for employment, because we are, in fact, concerned with those who are at the bottom. The great tax relief we made was also for those who had the least, i.e. the cleaning woman, the shop assistant, the window cleaner and others. I don't think any of them are the most powerful in our society. But I guess there's just a little bit of disagreement. I would say, in relation to the early retirement reform, that I believe that Mrs Karina Adsbøl, if she has followed the discussion, will know that what the SF is concerned with is that resources are not abused; that people get an early retirement pension; that you look at individual people and let them get out of work testing if they are too sick for it. What many people are going through right now is simply unworthy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006192053	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006192055	Unworthy, at least that's what it is. And the SF was also warned against the adoption of the early and flexible job reform, precisely that this would have major consequences. That's what it's been given. And I understand that the rapporteur does not regret having been involved in this. Something else is the tax reform. It was, of course, the case that economists were out to say that tax reform helped to increase inequality. It may be that the rapporteur will confirm that economists were out to say that. Various disability organisations were also out to say that they took away from transfer income precisely because they did not increase, as they did in the past, in relation to what they received in transfer income.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006192137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006192138	I think that the Danish People's Party's memory may be a little shorter than ours in the SF. The Danish People's Party has just been involved in a cash aid reform, which means that among other things. disabled people fall into the ceiling of cash benefits; three-quarters of those on cash benefits come up against the ceiling. If the Danish People's Party were so concerned about these people who have not received an early retirement pension, then it should have been necessary, in connection with the ceiling on cash benefits, not to count on those who are called ready for activity. So I think it is a little hypocritical to hear the Danish People's Party say now that it is due to something that was done two years ago. I recognise that we have to look at it, I certainly do. But I will not take responsibility for the cash benefits reform you have just adopted. It's a little embarrassing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006192220	Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006192223	Thank you. I really think it's time to clarify whether Dynamitanders has a sister named Dynamitpia here in Parliament. Because I noticed on Tuesday that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr made it an ultimate demand for a new social democratic government to abolish the ceiling on cash aid. Then I just want to hear from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr whether it can be expected that the Socialist People's Party will actually table a motion of censure on a new social democratic government if it is the case that the ceiling on cash aid is not abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006192302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006192304	It is true that it is an ultimate demand from the SF that the ceiling for cash benefits be abolished, yes. And I think it's a little premature to express distrust of someone when we haven't had an election released yet. And as far as I know, I believe the Danish People's Party still supports the Prime Minister. But if that should have changed and you express distrust of the Prime Minister, we can discuss what the government's constellation should be like after an election. But I think it might be a little premature to get into those discussions right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006192338	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006192340	I do not think so, I would say to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, because we are sitting here with a lot of people who need to know how far away we have to pack the electoral posters if that is the case that a red government comes at some point. And I understand that it is not quite wet powder that is in the dynamite rod that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr threatens a possible new social democratic government. I would just like to know how long Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is going to wait before she triggers a motion of censure on an S-government: is it 3 months, is it 6 months, is it 12 months? So how long will it take for Mrs Mette Frederiksen to deliver on Mrs Pia Olsen's ultimate demands?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006192416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006192418	I think we should fix this right away. If the Danish People's Party promises to express distrust of the government and we have an election, then the SF supports a future prime minister named Mrs Mette Frederiksen, and it becomes a demand from the SF that the ceiling for cash benefits be abolished. I mean, I think it's kind of a pseudo-discussion now that we have a government sitting with Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen. But if the Danish People's Party is out in such speculative exercises, then peace be with it. But so, I do not understand: does this mean that you express distrust of him and therefore want to know how long there is for the next election afterwards? That's weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006192455	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006192458	Well, there's so much that's quite weird, and I guess it was quite a svada we got in this speech from Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, compared to the fact that everything was pretty much wrong. It was the SU, and then it was the educators who were not enough; the top tax should not be lowered, nor the corporate tax; there was not enough money for core welfare etc. So I would just like to ask specifically whether Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr can confirm the following, which was applicable under the government of which the SF was part for a period of time and supported the rest of the period, namely: was the SU put down? Yes, it did. Were there more or less educators during that period? There were fewer educators. Was the top treasure lowered? Yeah, it was sunk. Were corporate taxes lowered? Yeah, it was lowered too. Was there more or less funding for core welfare in the municipalities? There were fewer funds. I would just like to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr to confirm that this was the case during the period when Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's party sat in government or supported the government that sat afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006192559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006192600	Yes, I'd like to confirm that. Sir. After all, Jacob Jensen is the type of person who knows his facts, and that is quite correct. In relation to the SU, it was in a debate with the bourgeois about how the SU system should develop and when compromises are reached, compromises are made. When it comes to educators, there were, firstly, fewer children in the municipalities and therefore fewer educators. Secondly, there was the half-billion that the municipalities got out in the first place in the context of the 2012 Finance Act. Unfortunately, it chose the municipalities not to use to hire educators, unfortunately not. They used it for other things in the field of children, which have probably been sensible for the individual municipality, but this meant that there were no more educators that we would have liked to have seen. In fact, the quarter-billion that we got dropped off in the Finance Act for 2015 meant hiring more educators. But that was after diving in the number of educators. I do not think I have time to reply to all the other elements, but I will be happy to come back.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006192654	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006192655	Well, I really want to thank you for the honest answer, which was a clear admission, but I think there should be room for that too. After all, however, the rapporteur's speech we heard just before the midday break brings out the fact that we are accused of cutting the SU when we have done so ourselves; that we are accused of having fewer educators when we ourselves were able to deliver fewer educators; that it should be quite awful to lower the top tax, when we have lowered the top tax and, by the way, corporate tax; that it should be quite awful that there would not be enough money for core welfare when we ourselves were part of a government and a majority who removed money from the municipalities for core welfare. But I sincerely thank you for the sincere and honest answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006192733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006192734	But it is the case that we must be honest in politics. It's not like that anymore. But we must also bear in mind that, at the time when we were in government, there was an economic crisis that had to be cleared up. That is a significant difference from the situation we are in at the moment. This meant that we had to keep public finances back. Right now, things are going up, and we, as politicians, need to help with that. What then happens under this government is that they say: we would rather reward the richest; we give tax rebates to those who have the most expensive cars; we give to those who have the most expensive houses. And I think they thank you. After all, there was a reason why the champagne corks jumped in the Liberal Alliance group room when the financial agreement was signed. But it is not the right medicine to create increased growth in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006192819	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006192825	I just want to know whether Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr thinks that you are poor when you are paid 17,600 kroner as a single recipient of cash benefits with a child. a month.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006192843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006192844	It depends on what you have of expenses. If, for example, you're gonna have to... has a rent of 10,000 kroner, and if you have medical expenses of 4,000 kroner. and you may not have much money for food for the rest of the month, so yes, you are poor. In fact, I would suggest that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen to go into the Facebook page called Single Parents, because there is a great deal of information about women with children who have got into a lot of trouble because of this ceiling of cash benefits, which means that they, for example: cannot buy medicines for their children.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006192918	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006192919	So Pia Olsen Dyhr believes that whether you are poor should be determined by what expenditure you have. So if you rent an apartment for 15,000 kroner. And you get paid $17,000, you're really poor. But then suddenly there are many people who can have really high costs and thus be poor. So, I have to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr to answer the question: are you poor when you are paid DKK 17,600, and does Pia Olsen Dyhr think that whether you are poor is determined by what expenditure you have? For then there are many people who have a salary because they have a job as the trade union movement has said OK. in Denmark, which is also poor, because they also have high costs, in relation to what their salary is. Well, that doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006193017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006193018	I think that some of what we did when we were in government, namely to introduce a poverty line where we could just see when people were poor and when they were not poor, was very useful, because then we could have a real discussion about who we should lift out of poverty. It has abolished the current government. And so I do not accept the premise that, in a specific amount, you can then assess whether people are poor. There you have to look at whether they have the opportunity to feed their children, whether they have the opportunity to give them medication when they are ill. I think it is such a strange view of human beings that I am gradually hearing from the Liberal Alliance over and over again: that it is as if people are responsible for it themselves. If you meet these people, it's often people who are sick, people who feel really, really difficult, who end up on cash benefits, who can't just take a job and risk being there for a lot of years. So I think you should have some respect for these people, too. It is really sometimes unpleasant to hear how you look at the people who are on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006193116	Then we thank Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Unfortunately, I must say to Mrs Pernille Bendixen and Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, that they leave in this round because of collegiate chatter. We're moving on with sir. Søren Pape Poulsen of the Conservative People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006193135	Thank you. I sat and got a little anxious earlier in the day when the Olsen gang and the different characters were talked about. I thought: Oh, no, when do they mention the guy who walks and hits them all in the head, who they call the steak, while they look over at me? Fortunately, no one did. That is not the role I want to play here either. We're starting a unique political season. There is a lot of work to be done. A great deal has been planned for us to achieve, and we are working constructively on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. We would rather take a small step in the right direction than have nothing happen. We feel we are chosen for that, so we must. I do not think that anyone will sit back and call someone who can write breaking news if I say that one of the biggest challenges we Conservatives see is housing taxes in Denmark. This is one of the challenges we have to face in this autumn. I am very pleased that the government has listened to us and has come up with a proposal which is sensible on a long stretch. How it gets in the detail, for good reason, I can't say anything about yet that we need a little more time to look at it but everything else just makes sense. But it also seems that we are about to work again to sprout the chestnuts out of the fire for the homeowners. After all, it is still the reality that we are looking into: The root cause is going to rise next year, the year after and the year after. It is largely open to an increase of almost 30% before a tax freeze is introduced. And it's not a tax stop, it's a tax jump. You lock the treasure on a new higher level. After all, we think that the landowners need security. The Prime Minister has promised them that, and I appreciate it. Then I would just add: they must have security now As part of you remember, things went in the right direction by the Finance Act last year, when the Conservative People's Party fought for the landowners and where we jointly among the blue parties saved the landowners a bill of 750 million. kr. We did that when we stopped the rising ground. And since then I have received a lot of letters from worried homeowners asking: What does the future bring? The high housing taxes also led Susanne from Lejre to send a letter to Berlingske about how unreasonable it is that you have to pay tax on living in your home • a home that you have already paid once with taxed money. It does not work that one's pension increases when the housing tax increases even if the housing tax only increases for the next four years. Basically, I think we should abolish housing taxes. We have put forward a proposal to finance it. I understand that this is not what the parties are waiting for, but then we must engage in constructive dialogue on the issue that has been put forward. You don't need more than 17,000 kroner. paid monthly as a single mother with two children before you can feel safe in a country like Denmark. Because you've got the institution space on top, and like all other people, you don't pay for school, and if you need the hospital, then it's paid. It is very important to me that we help those people who cannot do it themselves. However, we should not turn the whole of Denmark and large sections of the population into a very vulnerable group either. Nor do I think we can be familiar with throwing mud at those of us who say that there is also a limit to how much money people have to put in their hands on a public service. It is also a bit in the air that it is not good for them if they vote bourgeoisly, is it? It's in the left-wing rhetoric a bit, as if the more money you give out, the better a person you are. But there is both a neighborly bourgeois heart and so goodness when in a country you have a system where it is possible for a single mother with two children on cash benefits to receive 17,600 DKK. after tax every month. And then I hear talk about 7,000 poor children and what else we have heard from the platform here today. What are these poor children? What makes them poor? Who set that limit? Who has decided that they are poor? It's a mockery. It's an insult to the working people to stand here and say things like that. Can I give you an example of Jannie from Bjerringbro, this lovely city in Central Jutland? Jannie lives in an apartment there, and she's a single mother with two kids. She works 30 hours a week as a SOSU assistant. She's got 16,500 kroner. a month after tax to pay all the expenses. As she wrote to me after the debate on Tuesday because we have been in correspondence a number of times, also in the election campaign last year, when she said from this point of view: do the politicians really think that I am throwing my own children into poverty because I have a small amount of money? You're a bad mother if you don't have 17,600 kroner.? Because I understand that if you don't have it, it's a scandal that you can't live for that. What's this? What's this? What is this system that looks down on the people who have less? What is this system that looks down on people who have a job and earn less? Apparently, it's terrible what they offer their children when you have more on cash benefits. I think it's a wrong rhetoric. I don't think it's right. I don't think it's the kind of society we should have. Look out in the world. Look out in the world and see what conditions people live in anywhere else than in Denmark. So unless you think that we should have such a small island here, where we should separate ourselves completely from the world and say that we feel so and so bad, I assume that those who think that 17,600 kroner. After tax for a single mother with two children is awful, so must think that it must simply be awful to live outside the borders of Denmark. I think that's too bad. I think it is a pity that Denmark is being talked down in this way. I think it is a pity that we are talking our welfare down that way. I think it is a pity that we are talking the public sector down in this way. It is as if welfare is almost non-existent. We talk it down, down, down. I want to help talk it up, up, up, because I actually think we have a good society in this country. We can then discuss that, but I think we do. Is it perfect? No, but honestly, we have a good society. Of course we do. That's all you can think of. Now this political season also gives us great opportunities to lighten the tax for the working Danes, do something for our business. And, oh, you ask, when we do something for business, do the evil capitalists now need more? No, the business community must have some very good conditions, so that they can get more jobs and bake a bigger cake, so that we can afford all the welfare we want to give. Welfare cannot exist without prosperity at all. That is why we must ensure prosperity in our society, so that we can share some welfare. We want to get rid of the trouble for the companies. Then we are also pleased with the security pool that is in the government's plan for the 800 million. kr. Annually from 2019 to strengthen police and defence. It's really, really needed. This is really needed and we look forward to discussing it. So I actually think it's worth commending the government for the 2025 proposal. We can always discuss whether this should be even more ambitious. Of course, we had hoped that the government in the 2025 plan had addressed the green ambitions, that there had been a bid on how to reduce CO2 but it is all just a good plan, where we have said from the conservative side that there is nothing we do not want to talk about. It is not certain that we are offering everything, but there is nothing we do not want to talk about in that plan. There's a lot of work ahead. I think we should get started. It is no more than one year since the voters spoke and elected a blue majority, and I think it is now that we must show that it can produce some results. And then I look forward to the debate with my honourable colleagues in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006194034	We're ready for them now, and the first one is Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006194042	Thanks for the speech. I am a little curious, because if I were to say what I also expected of a strong green conservative voice, it was that all that reverse social indignation, we just saw on the platform, was used for the benefit of our environment, for our nature, for the climate, but I understand that you just pull a little on your shoulders and say that you could have hoped for that, but what would you actually do from the conservative side, in order for us to live up to our international commitments in this world that we should be looking into? What will be done by conservatives, in order for us to meet the Paris agreement, to meet the new sustainability targets, and for us also to pass on a beautiful nature to the next generation, which I also know is something that concerns Conservatives? Isn't it just pulling on the shoulders of it, it wasn't part of the plan sucks show?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006194135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006194137	We haven't started negotiating yet, and we have something to talk about... I think we certainly do. When I spent time in my indignation at the debate on welfare, it is because so many people speak contrary to my view. I think that at some point there should be some who raise their hands and say: is it really so unfair a system we have, among other things. with the cash aid ceiling? On the green side, I think we have an obligation to see how we can get even more on electricity. So, how can we get electricity into the transport sector, how can we get electricity into our heating system? After all, there is a good and lots of green power, and that is what we need to spend on getting electricity into a lot more places. It also requires us to look at our charging systems, and that is where I think we have a challenge. I had actually hoped to have addressed that in a plan that would be nine years ahead, but I mean, we haven't made an agreement yet, so I hope that we will have a good talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006194232	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006194234	It's funny that we haven't even started negotiating yet. That's news. I thought we were at least talking about this plan that was presented weeks ago, but now we know that this 2025 plan, along with all the other things that have been done by the government, means that we're getting a considerably bigger CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20161006194311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006194313	We're talking so much. Now there have been a number of thematic meetings, and after them we are really starting to negotiate. I fully agree that we have a challenge. That is also why I say that we have a challenge in our CO2 we must take that seriously. We take this very seriously and I think the questioner agrees with me that we need to find a way to get electricity into, for example. The transport sector, in our heating systems on, because it will of course make really, very good sense in relation to when we talk about emissions. So we have certainly not in any way forgotten or failed the green. We are actually proud to be involved in a number of agreements in this area and will continue to fight for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006194353	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left, Danish Liberal Party. It's a long name.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006194359	Thank you very much for that, President, and thank you very much, Mr President. Søren Pape Poulsen for a living speech, a committed speech. I do not think it was an inverse social indignation. I think it was a very real and very direct social indignation. I can see the Social Democrats' rapporteur moving up and complaining about the series of speeches, but leave it at that. Now a new housing tax system has been introduced here from the government's hand yesterday. The Socialists have had another proposal in the past to continue the tax freeze on housing, as introduced by the VK government, and I would like to ask: which of the two will, according to the Conservative People's Party's way of judging things, be most appropriate, create the greatest security for homeowners?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006194450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006194452	I think it is quite clear that what the government has put forward creates greater security for the homeowners, but does it mean that we think one by one that the system presented is clear and perfect in its full form? No, because what the government does not have, and what the Socialist proposal does not have, is, of course, the reason until 2020, i.e. in 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, and there, of course, we believe that there is a challenge. However, in its entirety it is clear that what the Socialists have proposed by just holding onto the tax freeze on the property value tax until 2025 will still give a huge challenge to the ground debt, which has meant a great deal to a great many homeowners, so the government's proposal is therefore several metres ahead, although I cannot do that in detail yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006194534	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006194537	Thank you. It's good to get confirmation. Surprisingly, I totally agree with this. I just need to make sure it's after mr. Søren Pape Poulsen's conviction will be given by the kicks that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen has for the negotiations to come, but this will be a way to give the homeowners security in order not to be taxed out of their homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006194602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006194603	We certainly see that there is an opportunity for this in the negotiations we are about to start, and I repeat, it will mean a lot to us that we will have a debate on what is happening between 2017 and 2020, because that is where we have a challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006194615	Then it's mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006194620	Thank you for that and thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Now the Conservative rapporteur has talked about one of the agreements we have in the green area, and I would like to sign for the cooperation that we have. I think there are many who are pleased that the Conservatives are sticking to the environmental and climate ambitions in the blue block. I also believe that there are many people in the business community who are happy that the Conservatives are sticking to the energy agreement we have made. After all, there has been a discussion about the coastal mills because the government wants to abolish them. In this regard, Mr. Brian Mikkelsen on behalf of the Conservatives on 12 September: We have an agreement. It ensures a green climate policy for the future, it guarantees a good environment for our business community, and we will have 6,000 jobs in Denmark in the coming years when the mills are built. I just want to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that we still have that agreement and that it is fully behind the Conservatives, regardless of what else the negotiations on the 2025 plan might offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006194718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006194719	I think we are starting to have some problems if the agreement we made in 2012 is suddenly not in place. I really think that we should welcome the offer that has been made about the coastal mills from Vattenfall, which, after all, brings the price down and which creates jobs and an EIA report has also been made. And I have also noted with satisfaction that several of the mills are being moved 8 km off the coast. It will be with this as with everything else that we have to discuss in relation to an overall agreement. But I just find it hard to understand if we do not have to stick to the agreements we have made with industry and our companies. For this is an agreement we have made four years ago and an EIA statement has been made, the local town councils have approved it and so on. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006194811	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006194814	Well, I very much agree with the Conservative rapporteur that industry has invested, confident that an agreement could be expected to be an agreement. And of course at Christiansborg we are also judged that we stand by our words. Then I would just like to ask the Conservative rapporteur to confirm, in order to talk about it in another way, that there are no 90 seats in the Danish Parliament to change an agreement that has been reached with a very broad settlement. Well, that would be breaking with the energy reconciliation. So can I not get the Conservative rapporteur to confirm that 90 mandates cannot be narrowly amended to change an agreement that was, in fact, broader? And that does not mean that it is the task of the Conservatives alone to save this, but it is the task of the Conservatives to say that it is a discussion for the energy reconciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006194858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006194859	Basically, I think it's also the energy reconciliation circle that should take care of this. After all, the government has made some announcements about some shattered assumptions, and then we are discussing where this is to be negotiated • whether it is in 2025, whether it is in the energy conciliation circle. Whatever happens, no matter how we get it screwed up, what it takes is that we have a PRS that needs to be abolished, and no matter what we do, we have a PRS bill for which we have to find funding. And I cannot stand on one side and say that we are unwavering and, on the other, say that we do not care about funding. So funding and decision must, of course, be linked.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006194942	Then it's mr. Mr Østergaard, on behalf of the Radical Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006194947	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen and I have fought a common case against Anders Fogh's tax freeze on housing. Perhaps we have come into the discussion from a slightly different angle, one might say. I suggested that housing taxes should follow price and wage developments. The Conservative People's Party proposed that such a total absence of housing taxes should be avoided. Now we are in the blissful situation that both of us have been right. Anders Fogh's tax freeze is being dismantled, and in the long term we will then have a model that is not quite the one I proposed, and in addition to regulating housing taxes with price and wage developments, the government will also leave an extra bill to the time when the housing is being converted. I understand, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, that is a good idea in the Conservatives. Then I just want to make sure that we agree that it is a great idea for the future to allow housing taxes to be price- and wage-regulated and to keep up with developments.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195043	I don't know if I think it's a great idea. I just said that the government has made a bid that we look forward to discussing. What is really, really important to us is that we address the root cause challenge, which means many thousands of kroner for many families, from 2017 to 2020. Then, of course, we need to have a discussion on how exactly it should be designed in the future. I do not think it is a secret that the Conservative People's Party basically wanted a completely new system in which all housing tax was abolished. But when we can't get through with it, you have to eat the elephant in little bites or at least make a more delicious dish than the one we had before.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195119	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195120	My point is, it's not about eating an elephant. Rather, it gets a little bit more sul on its body, all the time that what we disagreed about was whether it was wise to regulate the housing tax and payroll tax, and now the government has said that in addition to that it will freeze part of the extra increase beyond inflation, which then falls due to the property's turnover. But I am just glad that the Conservative People's Party has gone from a situation where it was thought that we should move towards not having housing taxes at all, to now think that we should both inflationaryly regulate and have a kind of profit-making tax. I think that this is a positive development and I believe that we can reach an agreement together. Then we'll see what happens in the next few years. It's probably the long term that's important.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195204	Let's go, sir. Morten Østergaard does not take me as an income for something I have not said or indicated. I'm just saying, I'm looking forward to the negotiations. But I think it is important that we find a solution. I'd say that. I think that we all, even in our stomachs, can sense that the homeowners need quiet. A solution needs to be found, and we are constructively involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195223	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195227	Thank you. I could hear in the speech that the rapporteur praised the 2025 plan and then called for CO2 at the same time. This is a bit contradictory, because the 2025 plan means increased CO2 I have also noted that, unlike the government, the Conservatives support the energy conciliation and support the construction of coastal wind turbines at the Vesterhav South. There has been a call for tenders which have come at a low price which is likely to provide 6 000 jobs during construction. The Conservatives have the opportunity here in the Danish Parliament to secure a green majority in some areas, despite the government's slanderous policy. I would like to know what opportunities the Conservatives see for a quick agreement to be reached on the coastal mills, so that the winner of the bid can have a contract made, even before we are to receive bids for Krieger's Flak here on 1 November, because we are, as it were, under pressure of time. What opportunities does the rapporteur see for us to get an agreement for the coastal mills as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195331	At any rate, I have noticed so far that there are a great many things on the table that we need to discuss, and there is a longer course of negotiations planned. So I do not think it should be up to me to organise the course of the negotiations that are coming. But I really think it is important to have this discussion, because it is kind of a matter of principle in relation to what kind of agreements we are making in the future with the companies that are offering this. When I commend the 2025 plan, it is, in fact, because everything else just seems to me that in its entirety there is very good in that plan. But I am also saying that I think it would have been very good if we had now started the ride by seeing how we, for example. Getting more electricity into our transport sector, getting more electricity in when we think about heat. The absurd thing is that in some places we may experience that we cannot choose the right district heating solutions because the charging system is screwed up as it is. I had hoped there would have been, but it is not too late to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195432	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195434	I am very much in agreement with that, and there would have been an opportunity in the energy conciliation circle if the Minister had not cancelled all the meetings since April. Now we are faced with a task of finding a PSP solution, and I see that the Conservatives have announced that the green cheque will be abolished in order to find funding in this respect. This will then mean that there will be 3 billion which pensioners and others with low incomes will contribute. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not quite unreasonable that it is in this sense the lowest-paid people who have to pay extra for the green transition, so that business can completely avoid paying for a sustainable conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195518	That is the answer I have given that can quickly spread. But when I have to say this in concrete terms, we came before we even saw this 2025 plan, a long time ago with a bid where we said: we think we should have done away with the PSP. How can you do that? We then proposed that the green cheque could be abolished. It should be remembered that the private individuals who have received the green cheque will also benefit from the abolition of PSOs. They also get a smaller bill at home. Then you can ask if it's so horrible that business doesn't have to do this. No, it is very good, because it means that companies can hold some jobs in Denmark, that we can get more people into the labour market, that we can become a richer society and that we can take care of those who need help.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195556	Sir. Jacob Mark of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195604	Thanks for the speech. I do not agree with everything that has been said, but it may not come as a surprise. I want to dive into an area that has not been mentioned at all today, but where I am frantically chasing a majority around the government. I try that a lot, and I hope to find this tonight for the first time. In fact, there will be savings in the production schools, and now I know that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen's heart is beating for some of the young people who are having a hard time, and the production schools are actually helping to raise some of the young people. They come out, they do a job, because you take them out of unemployment and try to get them into the labour market and make sure that they move on to the system and get an education. They will be saved by removing school benefits. This will mean, I believe, that many of the 16 to 17-year-olds who have previously attended a production school and who need it very much, but who will no longer choose that offer. I think, if you have to say so in this Chamber, that it is like peeing in your pants to keep warm, because you simply run the risk of losing some young people you might otherwise have got into work or taking an education. What is the Conservative People's Party's position on that saving?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195710	We're not gonna start tonight by making a majority bypassing the government. But it is not our proposal; it is not we who have put this forward. When we talk about education in general, we did not put forward these savings proposals. That will be part of the discussion. I can quickly get rid of a lot of promises tonight if I have to say yes/no to everything. But that is not our proposal. I actually agree that these very schools are picking up some of them, which fall out a lot of other places. But that will be part of the negotiations we are going to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195741	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195744	That's what I thought. Now I'm getting a little tired, it's late at night, and then I thought I'd be constructive. I know that the Conservatives do not have 90 mandates, but will the Conservatives enter into negotiations with the government with the approach that the savings in production schools should be eliminated?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195801	I am not going to stand here and make a long list of exactly what we are going to say on one, the other, the third and the fourth. I just want to say that this is not our proposal. We're gonna go in there and we're gonna discuss this broad, and then we're gonna look at what we're gonna get into in the end. It's gonna be an overall deal we're gonna have to look at. So that was a very good politician's answer, sir. Jacob Mark got there, and then I don't get much closer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195821	Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195824	Thank you. It is thus comforting to hear the Conservative People's Party speak so warmly for the green transition and also speak so warmly for the energy settlement, which is, of course, an important cornerstone of the green transition. Nevertheless, I think that the rapporteur will be a little woolly in his speech when he refers to the fact that the government is talking about shattered assumptions in relation to the energy conciliation. It is of course very interesting that it is the government, so I would really like to ask Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen on what is the position of the Conservatives. Is it the view of the Conservative People's Party that, in relation to the energy conciliation, we are talking about shattered assumptions?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195902	In any case, we think it would be best for it to be resolved there. I also fully recognise that there is an economy in this which was not foreseen at the time. That's also why I didn't want to go into this long debate about whether this is the one or the other place we're going to discuss this. In principle, I have a position that it should be kicked to the energy conciliation circle. But that is not what determines whether or not we want to go in and negotiate an agreement. We'd just like to make a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195927	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006195929	I understand that sir. Søren Pape Poulsen takes the view in principle that any changes to the energy conciliation should be negotiated in the energy conciliation circle; it cannot create the big headlines. But I have to ask the question again, and here I am not talking about questions of principle, in relation to where things are to be negotiated. I hear the rapporteur say that the government is talking about broken assumptions in the energy conciliation. I would like to ask the rapporteur to answer the relatively simple question: is it the view of the rapporteur, the Conservatives, that these are shattered assumptions in the energy conciliation?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006200005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006200007	A great many words can be used, but surely we cannot escape the fact that there is an economic prerequisite that is not clear. After all, we have to find some money for it to be linked, and then it is fair to say that we have to discuss it. So I have the principle approach that I think it should be in the energy conciliation circle, but that is not what matters to us as to whether we can talk about it or not. I just think we should find a solution, and we are going to go into a negotiating room and do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006200030	Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen, Social Democracy, elected in Silkeborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006200036	Thank you. Then it's stressed. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I think, first of all, that there have been some positive reports about the green policy of the Conservative People's Party. But especially in the answers to the previous question, a little more woolning began to develop. What is up and down on the Conservative People's Party's position on the situation of energy conciliation right now and the coastal wind turbines? That leads me to say: where exactly do we have the Conservative People's Party? Is it really firm that we should have the green transition and that we should not be bought for anything else? I have a brief and clear question. Now that there are going to be these 2025 negotiations, hopefully we can rule out the Conservative People's Party going out and selling out of its green ambitions in exchange for tax cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006200124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006200126	There will be two Thursdays of the week before I come here to tell you what negotiating strategy we are going in with and what we are going to do and what outcome should be of it. I think that what everyone must be able to demand from us and from me is that I say clearly here what our policy is. I think I have made it quite clear what is, even as far as green policy is concerned, to the extent that I have been asked about it. What an overall agreement we can make and what our negotiating strategy is, I will certainly not be able to say from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006200201	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006200203	I can hear that the rapporteur wants to say a lot of fine words, but that should not just sound good. It's gotta be good, too. If we are going to have a green transition, if we are going to have to comply with the energy conciliation year by year and roll out the green energy policy, I would say to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, that you don't just have to make nice speeches. Then we must also ensure that we do some concrete work and stick to the agreements we make. We have not been able to get a clear answer on whether Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen is one hundred percent in agreement that the shattered prerequisites of the energy settlement that the government is talking about are completely broken, and therefore one can begin to conjure with where the offshore wind turbines are going to stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006200244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006200246	Is Mr. Thomas Jensen is really in doubt about what the Conservative People's Party's policy is in the field of green transition? It is a green policy of common sense that we are leading up to. We will go in and fight for that. Then I know that we can have a long discussion, which is particularly interesting in this room, about whether you can guarantee whether you can promise whether you can say it or not, and if that happens on a summer evening or a summer day, it ends like that. I have explained what our position is. In fact, we believe that the agreement on coastal mills should be maintained because it is an agreement that has been made. The industry must be able to count on it, the locals must be able to count on it. That is why we stand where we stand, and that is also our starting point in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006200328	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen, and with his permission, I would just like to say from the Left, because then we can save some time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006200334	Well, that's okay. I think everyone knows what kind of party the Left is, so of course. I'd like to earnestly sign for the speech. Now I do not see my own rapporteur sitting in the back listening, yet I dare say that I actually thought that this speech, and I think it was almost on the same level, yes, I would go as far as to say that it was on the same level as Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensens, and therefore among the best two speakers today. It was alive. One could feel the energy, one could feel the sincerity, and one could feel that there was a person here who meant what he said and wanted to make a difference. Then I thought it had another positive thing, and it was that it focused on finding solutions: you were constructive, you didn't just scold everyone else's faults and shortcomings. So much for that. Then I would like to ask you something so that it does not become too microphoney with our friend in the Conservative People's Party. It is clear that if the Conservatives had 90 mandates and had to decide for themselves what it would all look like, things would be different from the 2025 plan we have then put forward by the Left, perhaps a little different, although I think we share quite a lot of those views. That's what I heard in the speech. - Sir... Søren Pape Poulsen may be revealing or getting a little closer to the sources of funding that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen would like us to go further down in? Because there are plenty of parties in here who would like to spend money, but I am sure I know that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen's party is one of the parties that would also like to see the money found, earned and delivered before it is spent. So what sources of funding will Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen and Conservative priorities when we have to negotiate further on the 2025 plan in the coming period?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006200502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006200504	Thanks for the nice words. I would have thought that we would now have a very long discussion on, among other things. the ceiling on cash aid, and then it will be a whole series of issues on environmental policy measures. It is also good, it is also good, but I hope that some will come and ask me the other question as well. However, as far as the sources of funding are concerned, it is clear that we can be trusted that we will make proposals where things are linked at any time. I mean, among other things... We can discuss how large a public sector we have to have in Denmark at all to finance this. What are we doing for business to create an even stronger Denmark? We have thus seen a bag of a lot of suggestions that we intend to take with us in the left or right hand, on how to create an even stronger Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006200552	Sir. Jacob Jensen? No. Then we'll take the next one, and this is Mrs. Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006200559	Thank you. Together with the government, Conservatives have cut billions of dollars away from education and research, and now there is a proposal on the table to degrade the SU to the students. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he thinks it is reasonable for young people to have to pay or work even more alongside studies, and whether Conservatives are concerned that this will mean that fewer young people will receive training.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006200631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006200633	No, we're not worried about that. This kind of thing is about taking responsibility... that you have to take responsibility for your whole life, too, and you don't raise your hand and say: Now I'm a student, and then I'm gonna have so much money. Instead of saying: I invest something in myself and in my society by taking an education. I think the discussion that has taken place about the whole of the SU area here has been completely out of touch. Well, we're talking about 800 kroner. It is presented as being virtually impossible to study anymore, and that it is almost completely impossible to take care of an education in the future. I simply do not agree with that. I would like to say from here that I think that Danish students are doing fantastic well. They should be happy and grateful to live in a country where you pay Try to talk to people who don't come from this country. They fall behind every time they hear about our system.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006200733	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006200735	I believe that people are falling behind or being impressed by our system, because there are many people who can see the point that we have invested in an SU system and an education system that allows a great many young people to get an education. And I think that also benefits all of us in society. After all, there is a huge added value in people getting an education and returning to society. I would like to hear something from the rapporteur. Only last week there was a result of a research study which, as it were, said: cuts in the S.U. can mean that fewer people carry out; this can mean that fewer people take a long education and thus stop earlier in the process. Isn't that something that just gives a little concern about the economy here? Because if that happens, we can lose an enormous amount of money on it, because education is an investment for all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006200823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006200825	I agree that education is an investment for all of us. And I fully agree that we must, of course, support young people in taking an education. Now it's not like you go to school for a long time. We have a broad range of education. Now we have the debate on SU in the long and higher education sectors, and I have the feeling that the proposal contained in the overall plan will also have a carrot when you have finished. I guess it's okay for you to invest in an education. Then you come out, get a job, earn a reasonable wage, and then you can pay back the money you borrowed during your studies. I think it's about taking some responsibility. In fact, I think it is a question of taking responsibility as a young person also for making a good life, and if you have the ability, you also have the duty. If you have the ability to take an education, I am also sure that afterwards you can create a good life.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006200921	Sir. Simon Kollerup of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006200929	Thank you. I understood from the Conservative Party leader that he was asking for some questions about a particular theme. I do not know if I heard correctly, but I heard it as if it was the agricultural package for which questions were wanted. It has to come here. It has thus seen its tragic background in a story that has emerged today, from GEUS, which is part of the Ministry of Climate and Energy. They consider that the agricultural package could increase the risk of, inter alia: colon cancer due to an increased nitrate content in groundwater and therefore also in drinking water. I think it is interesting to know whether the Conservatives, as part of the conciliation behind the agricultural package, intend to do something to prevent it from getting there. Does the Conservative People's Party intend to do anything to curb the risk of cancer associated with our drinking water?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006201021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006201024	If I am to respond seriously to that, I have to refer to the discussions that have taken place on the agricultural package itself. I also think the questioner knows that as a party leader I have sat down here all day and participated, so I have not read what is being asked. But it is clear that something is coming out that shows that this is something we need to have looked at, so of course we must. I just can't say anything serious about it when I haven't had a chance to read or hear about it until now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006201053	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006201057	I respect that, that's fair enough. Therefore, perhaps we can just deal with the matter a little more in principle. What comes out today from a unit that itself writes that they are part of the Ministry of Climate and Energy is that they say that there are some risks associated with what the agricultural package affects our drinking water with. Is it just a matter of principle that the Conservative People's Party intends to take up so that we can secure the Danish drinking water? It is, after all, a relatively simple and fundamental question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006201127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006201130	I would say that I do not think there is a single party in the Folketing that does not care that we have clean drinking water in our taps, and it is clear that if something has come out that we must have looked at, we must look at it. I just don't have a Chinese man's chance to relate to anything from here on the platform that I haven't seen, heard or read about.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006201147	Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006201151	Thank you for that, President. Back in June, before this long summer holiday we have had and from which we have just returned, the Conservatives were kind enough to vote in favour of a proposal from the Danish People's Party that we should have the immediate treatment of asylum seekers' cases at the border. I think that is very positive, because it is a question of whether this asylum shopping can also be avoided through Europe, as we have seen in the past. But I think it raises a question of whether we can then take it as an indication that we now have the Conservatives together with the Danish People's Party in the fight for permanent border controls. Because we believe that the prerequisite for this immediate treatment at the border in the future and for dealing with it is, of course, that you have permanent border controls and that it is not temporary border controls, now, in the first place, until 12 November. It may be extended a little and extended again, etc., but with the prospect that it will disappear again. So my question is simply: do we from now on stand together on the fight for permanent border controls at Denmark's borders?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006201256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006201259	I am not going to answer that in the affirmative, but we have, I believe, a common understanding of the fact that, even after 12 November, at least as far as we can see, what we then call effective temporary border controls will be needed. It's gonna be a long time. That is also why we have said that we should perhaps start thinking about the resources we use at the border, i.e. whether we should also train a genuine border police force, because we actually believe that this will take a long time. We have the basic view of the Conservative People's Party that we really want Schengen's borders to work. Now we can just see with open eyes that they don't work. As long as Schengen does not do so, we will be quite firm that then there must also be controls at our border. And then we want to turn the whole of the Danish asylum system around, so that we cannot self-search here and seek asylum, but that it should be something that happens from a refugee camp in a nearby area, and we should then take the number per year that we think society can bear. But that is another discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006201355	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006201359	That's right, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen says that there are many things that we share and look at in common on this occasion. What we can then, of course, disagree on is whether it is not a prerequisite for us to be able to create such a system that we have border controls. And if you then agree that yes, it is and that it can be a long temporary period, yes, then we will call it permanent. And then we can fight about it a little bit. But the point is that there is a lot of discussion about resources and whether we are spending a lot of resources at the border. It would be cheaper from the moment we say that we have permanent border controls and train people and hire them at the border. I saw a statement in the Police Union in Denmark's magazine that if we had 37 hours of work out of a border officer, we would have to pay for 57 hours when it is someone who is employed elsewhere in the country and has to be posted. This is, of course, a rather stupid way of doing this, if we nevertheless agree that we will probably have border controls for many years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006201451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006201454	I kind of share that concern. That is also why I have sometimes said more or less loudly that it was perhaps time for us to have a talk about what competences we should have at the border. What are people supposed to be able to do at the border? I actually think that many of those policemen should go home and work in their local police circles. At the same time, and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl well, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party have stood shoulder to shoulder in the police settlement and fought hard for us to get even more officers trained. That's another thing. I think we are going to look at the fact that we need to train a genuine border police force what it should be and what it should be able to do. 'Cause I think that temporary period is gonna be very long.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006201533	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006201540	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. Now we have heard a great deal of criticism of the ceiling on cash benefits, and that brings me to a very simple question: when you put 33,000 people into cash benefits and that brings only 600 people into work, that is, when it gets virtually no people into work, which you've known all along, what is really the point of this ceiling on cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006201604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006201607	One can always take the discussion about how many people can get to work and what motivates what, I fully agree with that. It may be that the figure is not very large, but for me and for the Conservative People's Party, this is also about fairness. What's fair? What is right and fair? That's why I can't be in myself when I hear about how much poverty is being created by a single mother having 17,600 kroner. after tax, in addition to having her children cared for in cash benefits. I just do not want to accept the premise that we then create poverty in Denmark. It must also be fair to those who go to work every day and do not make so much money. Well, for me, this is a lot about fairness. That was also the argument I used in the election campaign last year when we proposed our own ceiling on cash benefits, which is very close to this. It can then be said that this was not what gave the most electoral support, but it does not change the fact that we mean it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006201701	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006201704	I mean, this cash-aid ceiling can do a lot of things. It can chase a lot of sick people around for jobs that hardly exist and that they wouldn't be able to take if they existed. It can bring 7 000 children below the poverty line, and we fear that it will also bring whole families from home and home. And that is what I would like to ask: is it because it is fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006201724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006201727	But I don't recognise that poverty line. It is a poverty limit that was discussed in the last period, set by the red block, which says that if someone gets richer in society and you do not get richer in the same way, then suddenly you have become poor. What it must be about is how much money you have between your hands to spend what you can buy for them and what life you can have. I think that is a reasonable view. Then I should like to admit to the questioner that this may well happen, this system is not yet perfect. It may well be that some people are misplaced, because people are not supposed to be on permanent cash aid. That's not the idea at all. I would not rule out the fact that there are also some people who are sick who should be on another service. I am happy to admit that it is also in that system.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006201811	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006201818	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. It was an ideological speech, and it's a good thing to discuss those things. It was a speech in which the exposed are not single parents who stand to lose thousands of kroner each month. It's the landlords. I find that very exciting to discuss. It's classic conservative. Now the rapporteur is from a very typical place in the country with average prices, Viborg, where an average parcel house costs 1.7 million. kr. This is roughly in the middle, because at Frederiksberg and in Hellerup the price is about 7 million. kr. The cheapest place in Denmark is Nyholmsvej in Snedsted, close to Thisted. There is a house of 140 m2 below DKK 400 000. Does the rapporteur not recognise that with the model proposed and the things proposed by Conservatives themselves in relation to a new housing tax, there is a completely insane distortion both geographically and between the homeowners living in Thisted and those living in Gentofte? Is that fair? Are you exposed?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006201937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006201941	I don't know if I'm gonna call the landowners exposed. They put off in this country, I mean, among other things. are the homeless, who suffer from the fact that we are busy caring for all sorts of others. It's one discussion. Now Viborg is no average place, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. There are many braves, brave people who are of special quality. But it is probably true that when it comes to housing prices, it is very average. And I think that both in Viborg and in Snedsted you are very pleased that you can buy houses that are much cheaper and where you are not taxed from house and home. What is absolutely wrong is that there are people living close to this place who pay many, many thousands of kroner every year. I am influenced by the fact that Susanne down in Lejre, who is a pensioner and lives in an ordinary house, pays 35,000 kroner. a year in housing tax and can only sit there because she has an inheritance. I don't think that's okay. It's nothing to be exposed, it's just not okay. That's not fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006202036	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006202039	Well, if the rapporteur cares so much about people who pay a great deal of ground debt, then perhaps the rapporteur should propose a housing tax model that does not give hundreds of thousands of kroner to the very richest in this country and a few hundred kroner to those who live in the small cheap houses in rural areas. Because it is not going to be the people that the rapporteur says he cares about who are really going to feel this. It will be them in the most expensive homes. That's why you could have made a model where you looked at the reason. But what is going to happen is that the property value tax will be completely changed so that those with the most expensive houses will get hundreds of thousands of dollars in tax relief. That's what it's really gonna be. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur once again: does the rapporteur think that it is the homeowners in, for example. Viborg, who's gonna get nothing out of this, who's gonna pay for those in Gentofte and other places where average prices are 7 million. kr., need a huge tax relief? Is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006202141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006202145	I simply do not recognise the premise of the debate that people who live in a place where they pay a reasonable housing tax and are not forced from house and home pay for some others not to experience exorbitant increases. That's what we see. These are violent, violent increases. Everything the questioner says there, she should tell Kirsten at Frederiksberg, who is a retired primary school teacher and lives in a townhouse. She just wants to stay. She can't, because the reason is rising and rising. I'd like the richest to pay too. Then we could agree to create a new housing tax model, which means that we abolish all housing tax. On the other hand, we introduce a profit tax when you sell, because it will also mean that those who earn a great deal of money from selling their property will pay a lot of tax because we tax money that people have and not fictitious values that they do not have.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006202234	Sir. Erik Christensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006202237	Thank you. I would say that with our common past in the municipal world, I do know Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen as such a relatively precise man when he speaks. I think that when the answers come on the green agenda, on the energy conciliation, they will be somewhat hovering. It's not the Søren Pape Poulsen I usually know, so I'm trying to ask you one more time. Well, it's just that if mr. Søren Pape Poulsen counts the mandates, there will actually be more than 90 mandates for the energy conciliation, which means that the government could be required to construct coastal offshore wind turbines. So I'd like to hear sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, whether it is the case that the Conservatives stand by it and whether they will help to hold onto what lies in the energy settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006202322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006202325	I think I have said very clearly that we are behind that conciliation and that that is what we want to achieve. I have also said at the same time that I cannot close my eyes to the fact that we have a bill to pay; a bill on the PRS that we must find a settlement and an agreement on. That's kind of just what I'm looking for. I don't think I'm that woolly, but I just realize that the world isn't black and white. I do not want to enter into any discussion about which minister has now interpreted in what way. I'm pretty much dealing with what we think.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006202353	Sir. Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006202356	But it is actually the case that the wind turbine industry has come up with an alternative proposal which actually saves 80 million. kr. more than the government's proposal, and that is why it is possible. There's no problem with the economy building these coastal offshore wind turbines. Then Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen recognizes that the wind turbine industry has actually come up with a proposal which will enable us to continue along the path which the industry is actually planning to follow.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006202423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006202426	I am quite sure that our climate and environmental rapporteur can confirm that we have had such a proposal. I'll go down to the questioner right after and see it, and then I'll just be happy about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006202437	Then it's Mrs. Marie Reumert Gjerding from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006202445	Thank you. I'd like to follow up on that, sir. Simon Kollerup asked. For this new GEUS report, which is on the way, was something that was actually agreed in the continuation of the agricultural package, i.e. that the Geological Surveys of Denmark should carry out a more thorough analysis of the consequences for drinking water. It is now on the move and the researchers have said today that, yes, the agricultural package will have consequences for drinking water. I understand, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen would like to see it, but in principle I would like to ask: if it turns out that this is what the report says, i.e. that this will have consequences for drinking water, will the Conservative People's Party be prepared to change the agricultural package?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006202524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006202527	If that turns out to be the case, we will discuss it and then we will have a dialogue with the Minister and the other parties, and then we will see what this gives rise to. I simply do not want to be taken hostage here on the speaking chair of the Folketing for a report or article which has been in a newspaper today that I have not read. None of us is against clean drinking water. None of us is saying that we must do everything possible to combat clean drinking water. We all want clean water in our taps as much and as best we can. Now we have an agricultural package which, when it is phased in, actually contains more environmental wisdom than before. Then there is a slump in the early years that we are trying to counter with some other measures. If it then has a different consequence according to some studies, then we must look at it objectively and seriously. But I just do not think I should say so firmly that we do just that and so on the basis of a report or article that has been in today's newspapers and that I have not had a chance to read.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006202619	I have to say to those colleagues who want to discuss in a circle that we have a suitable room out here at the back it's quite disturbing at the moment. Yeah, it's about you guys over there. Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006202637	Thank you. I do not think anyone is interested in taking anyone hostage or demanding exactly what is to happen. That's because it can worry many people when these things come out, that is, that drinking water is threatened in areas of Denmark, and that health experts go out and say that this could lead to an increased cancer risk. So it is only a question of asking for a statement from the Conservative People's Party that one is prepared to look very seriously at this new knowledge that has emerged and that we will get the overall report on within probably a very short period of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006202708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006202711	Yes, of course we'll look at it when it comes. We are not opposed to knowledge, so of course we will. I mean, we have to be objective and serious about what comes to light, of course we have to.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006202718	Then I would like to thank you very much, Mr President. Søren Pape Poulsen for the effort. I am delighted to welcome our Greenlandic colleague Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006202738	On Tuesday, the Prime Minister referred to the Kingdom Community as a unique community. It was a little difficult to see reflected in the opening day itself, among other things. was one of the three flags that are in the Kingdom community, raised here behind me, and we got sung in Denmark I was born. We're not all born in Denmark, but let it go. The Kingdom is an eternal subject. It is a very complex but also a very important issue to address. The introduction to the Self-Government Act states that the purpose of the law is to ensure equality and mutual respect between Greenland and Denmark. However, I do not think this is always reflected in reality, and let me elaborate on what I mean by it. During the last year, the government has shown interest in visiting Greenland during various ministerial visits, as have three of the parliamentary committees, namely the Greenland Committee, the Legal Affairs Committee and the Defence Committee, also visited Greenland. The aim of the trips has been to increase understanding for Greenland and for the Greenlandic conditions. As the only Greenlandic parliamentarian who took part in the committee trips, I am very pleased that the travels became a reality. I certainly believe that we can go a long way with a greater understanding of each other. During the autumn, the three committees will follow up on the trips and we already know that the Defence Committee is planning a hearing on the Arctic, and the Committee on Legal Affairs will follow up on a number of specific issues in the area of justice in Greenland. I look forward to seeing that the new knowledge of Greenland and Greenlandic relations of my fellow Members also leads to political initiatives and initiatives, because that is certainly what is needed. In the further work on Greenlandic matters in the Folketing, however, the North Atlantic members are significantly worse off than other members, because although Paragraph 28 of the Constitution says that the North Atlantic members are members of parliament on equal terms with the other members of parliament, the reality is often different. In order to achieve political results, we know that, as you know, it requires sitting at the negotiating table. Today the reality is that none of the North Atlantic members in the Folketing are invited to a large number of negotiations which directly deal with interventions in Greenland. A few examples of this are the defence settlements, the criminal justice settlements and the forthcoming rate-pool negotiations. It is at one and the same time both thought-provoking, but also deeply shameful, that the knowledge that we as Greenlandic members of parliament possess is not used further. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Minister for Finance, who this year, at the request of the IA, has included the North Atlantic mandates in the financial law negotiations. It is a step in the right direction. But if we look at most of the remaining areas, we have to recognise that there is a long way to go again. We are discussing legislation here in Things, which helps to influence the lives of ordinary people in Greenland. Legislation relating to Greenland must be updated earlier than today, when the government, 5-15 years after it is updated in Denmark, has updated the Greenlandic legislation. Do we ourselves in Greenland have a responsibility to take hold and proactively ask to have the legislation updated? We certainly have. However, the Danish Government should have a general focus on the legislation in the 32 areas Denmark is responsible for on behalf of Greenland. That is, for example, the case. family law, justice and defence, so that it corresponds at all times to the modern society in which it also has to operate. It should also be clear to the governments at the Council meetings that plans for the repatriation of areas should be discussed. The police in Greenland today carry out a number of sometimes deeply outdated authority tasks, such as interrogation of fathers in single lives with mothers of common children, as well as a large number of other administrative tasks, which could be better solved in Greenlandic municipalities with the benefit of the citizens of Greenland society. Similarly, adoption legislation and name law are better provided in Greenlandic society, where these very conditions are so fundamentally different from Danish society. We often see the economic challenge of repatriation as an obstacle, but these areas are proposals which are not costly and which are best solved in Greenlandic society and for the benefit of Greenlandic citizens. Denmark remains responsible for justice. That is to say, the police, the courts and the criminal services, and despite the fact that in recent years there has been a decrease in the number of offences in Greenland, as waiting lists in the asylums are declining and the mass-fighting efforts in the courts have been successful, there is still a need to look critically at the Greenlandic justice system. The good results are pleasing, and IA's sustained efforts and focus on justice over the last 15 years in the Folketing are certainly one of the reasons why we see positive trends in this area. Among the areas that continue to require focus is the National Defence Office, which is being established. The defences in Greenland are primarily laymen, and it is a step in the right direction that one is working to professionalise the defenders, but time will show whether the office is adequately funded. As far as justice is concerned, I would also like to launch a discussion on whether we should leave the current layman system in the long term and instead work towards professionalisation of the area. This is difficult when, at the same time, we want to maintain a principle of subsidiarity, but it is a necessary debate to take. Greenlandic society is constantly changing, and our laws, rules and legal certainty must reflect the current society in which the justice system operates. The coming parliamentary year will be marked, among other things, by a debate on the tasks of defence in the Arctic and a final position on Pituffik, Thule Air Base, and foreign policy is the cooperation of IWC, the Whaling Commission, unfortunately an example of the fact that the Commonwealth is not always able to accommodate opposing interests and defend Greenlandic interests. We should stand together in the Kingdom community and not let EU interests take precedence over our own. It is about the supply, self-sufficiency and sustainable use of our resources in Greenland. Work on a new defence settlement will start soon, and the new Arctic analysis of the defence will have to be seen in the light of the forthcoming political negotiations. The Arctic analysis was published in June and will be discussed in the Defence Committee and the Defence Committee. As has been said, the clear position of Inuit Ataqatigiits is that North Atlantic MPs should, of course, sit in these discussions and when a final decision is taken on the defence's solution to the problem in the Arctic and in Greenland. Complete environmental clean-up at former military bases and greater involvement of the Greenlandic population should be a priority in these considerations. Economic activity is in progress in Greenland, but the economic basis is still vulnerable. The way forward must continue to be to create business policy measures, administrative flexibility and goodwill, so that interested investors are not frightened away, but will continue to invest in business development in Greenland and especially in the creation of local jobs. The need for continued cooperation in the Kingdom Community on business development and to ensure investors to Greenland is therefore still topical. Education is still fundamental to a society of development. The government's 2025 plan sets out a fundamental change in education policy. The then government in Greenland decided in 2013 to change the education support, so it went from Greenlandic SU to Danish SU. This was done in broad agreement with the then Naalakkersuisut and with the clear assumption that the conditions and conditions of the students would not be impaired. It is a break with a long-standing policy in Greenland if Naalakkersuisut does not take a further position on how we can ensure proper conditions for our students, so that we ensure that there continues to be a development of Greenlandic society, and so that there will always be more people training and no more who fall out of the programme. Young people are our future, and we need each and every one of them, so let us ensure proper conditions that do not go wrong, so that we ensure that everyone has an opportunity to take on an education. For some, education is the only way out of the negative social heritage. One of the things I am calling for in today's speech is a greater degree of equality in the Kingdom Community and here in the Danish Parliament for that matter, and therefore it cannot be right that we are out of influence in a large number of political negotiations when Greenland is on the political agenda. A prerequisite for the Community must be involvement, dialogue and greater knowledge of each other. The Greenlandic people and we politicians elected in Greenland have a natural urge to help define the policy that concerns Greenland. I think this is a natural development, and in this light, it will suit the government and the parties of the Folketing to ensure greater involvement of members of parliament elected in Greenland. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006203802	Thank you. We have a number of brief comments to make. First, it's from sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006203807	Thank you, and thank you very much for your speech. After all, I fully share the ambition of the natural involvement of all colleagues in this Chamber, including, of course, those who represent the Greenlandic and Faroese parties. What I really want to ask is about the Paris agreement that was made last year and where I know that Greenland has asked not to be included in the Danish accession. I would like to know whether the rapporteur's party has the ambition that Greenland itself should accede to the agreement, as an independent country, or how it may be that it has chosen not to join the Danish accession, since it is a global agreement for all countries on the planet.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006203848	Thank you for the question. In Inuit Ataqatigiit, we have been concerned about being very ambitious in contributing to the climate challenges facing the world. We also find it extremely regrettable that we have not dared to be more ambitious on the part of Naalakkersuisut, the Greenland Government, on this issue. So, unfortunately, we are in a situation where there is no political majority in Greenland to sign this agreement, and we find that extremely regrettable. Because we see climate change at double speed compared to the rest of the world in the Arctic. In this way, of course, we must also take part in co-responsibility. I do not necessarily believe that this should be an obstacle to the creation of development, which is one of the reasons referred to by Naalaksuisut.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006203936	Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006203938	No, quite right, it can be a very good opportunity to bring about positive changes. But thank you for your answer, and I hope, of course, that the rapporteur's party will succeed in bringing the rest of the politicians along. For it is of course important that it is a global agreement for all countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006203958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204000	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204002	We move on to Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204005	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say that I am pleased to hear the rapporteur's wish for greater involvement in the political process here in the Folketing. I think that will only lead to the strengthening of the Kingdom community, and if we are to turn it around and see where we can strengthen the Danish community, then I am glad to hear that the rapporteur is just mentioning the area of justice. For one of the areas that I hear highlighted, where we may be able to do even more in Greenland, is precisely the police and the judiciary. The rapporteur mentioned strengthening the principle of subsidiarity. I do not know whether the rapporteur can come a little closer to proposals on where more can be done by Greenland to strengthen the rule of law in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204050	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204052	Thank you for the question. On the first point, I would like to say that, for me personally, it is extremely important to be constructive in parliamentary work, to be proactive and to be solution-oriented. That is the approach I have to it. So thank you for your comments. With regard to the second part of justice, I believe that we need to look at whether we might have to vary according to what is seriously involved in the various judicial cases. In other words, when it is primarily a layman system as it is in Greenland, we also have to look at how we can strengthen both the charge and the defense part, where, as I said, today it is laymen. I think we can both go in there with some continuing training to a greater extent than we do today, or with others. This national defence service, but in the long term perhaps also to ask whether there are such serious cases that we need to ensure that it is some who have a legal knowledge of the cases, both on the charge side and on the defence side, that they have to lead these cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204159	Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204201	Thank you very much. Just one more brief remark: I am aware that our Ministry of Justice has a very high focus on justice, especially in the area of justice, for example. the smaller settlements, and on what can be done there because the geographical distance, language challenges, etc. is a challenge. I know there is no easy solution here, but does the rapporteur, when it comes to the very small settlements where there cannot be a policeman in all of them, have any thoughts on what can be done to strengthen the sense of legal certainty in these areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204233	That is, of course, at the heart of this debate, because it is a challenge when you have a principle of subsidiarity, which I also think you should stick to as much as possible, while at the same time I think there should be a focus on the professionalisation of the area as well. I think you have to go in there and have a discussion. One of the things I would like to propose in the Committee on Legal Affairs is that we should hold a hearing to discuss just some of these things, and I will try to come up with an overall plan of what these are alternatives to the system that we have today, to which I would like to contribute some constructive solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204313	Then it's Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204316	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for that good speech. I have a question about whaling. It is true that the rapporteur also mentioned in his speech that there were some issues, some disagreements between Denmark and Greenland about whaling. I would like the rapporteur to unfold it a little more, because I believe that Denmark has just taken care to keep the smaller whale species outside limits. Where are the problems, and how does the rapporteur view them?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204400	Thank you for the question. It is primarily in relation to the large whales that Greenland has some special interests. And when you are three parties to a community of kingdoms, sometimes there are some interests that are higher than others, you can say that there are some who have more at stake. And Greenland has that when we talk about the big whales. An instruction has been made on the part of the Kingdom community, and there are sometimes internal knots, which one has to relate to. And that is where there may be some conflicting interests within the Kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204436	Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204438	I recognise, of course, that this is precisely about the big whales, and it is my impression that there is a certain quota that the Greenlanders have to catch every year. So that part is actually very well under control and it is being observed, and it is as it should be. But as far as I am informed, there is a Greenlander who sits down when Denmark negotiates these things, and I would like to know if it is not true that there is a close cooperation and that there is an agreement between Greenland and Denmark about it and that there is a Greenlandic bisidder.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204520	On the Inuit Ataqatigiits side, we believe that when it is Greenland that has some particular interests, we should also have a negotiating position that is stronger than the one we have today. It is Greenland which has some interests in relation to the large whales, and that is why we also believe that we should go in and see how we can strengthen Greenland's position in those negotiations. For it is Greenland's interests that are most at stake in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204546	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204549	Thank you. In a society where it is 25-30 per cent. I think it is important for young people who have social problems to say that this is serious and that something needs to be done. I would like to hear from the rapporteur what she thinks needs to be done to improve conditions for the children in Greenland and whether she can see, if necessary, some opportunities for both Denmark and Greenland to make an effort in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204616	Thank you for the question. This is, of course, a subject on which I personally am very concerned. I myself was a child spokesperson in Greenland, and when I sat in Inatsisartut for six years I was asked six different questions about how to help strengthen children's rights. One of them is in the process of moving forward, and one of the things you point to is that more than 30%. of our children and young people in Greenland have a social matter. That seems to me to be screaming to heaven, because it is only the cases we know about, and what about all the cases where the school or the neighbours or the family may not have pointed out that there is indeed cause for concern for a child? So we're actually in a situation where this seems to me to be a bigger and bigger challenge, at least when you look at the numbers. Efforts need to be made. One of the points I have made specifically is that we need to have some guidance figures, which have also been discussed in Denmark. And I really think it's urgent. Sexual abuse of children and neglect of children simply cannot be accepted as a society. I think it is very important that we reverse this trend and that we create a positive spiral for children and young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204726	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204728	It is time for some more social workers and workers to be employed, who come into the areas and do not sit and do office work, but who are primarily active in the settlements and towns.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204743	In relation to the division of responsibilities between Greenland and Denmark, it is Greenland that is responsible today, and I believe that this should also be maintained. I do not think that it should necessarily be a practical help from Danish, but one has to be aware that Greenland is facing a really, very great challenge, where a process of recognition is under way. We have not even made it through this process of recognition in Greenlandic society, I dare say. So, yes, there is a need to make a greater effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204811	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204814	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen mentioned in her speech the importance of being part of the agreements in the Folketing. After all, I have complete respect and understanding for the fact that IA wants to be invited to negotiations, among others. the Finance Act. I also fully understand that IA can have a legitimate expectation to become more part of the conciliation which concerns Greenland. But could Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen mention which contexts it is most important for IA to become a part of?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204852	There's, uh... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... some very specific settlements: the police settlement, the criminal justice settlement and the defence settlement are quite, quite obvious. The wagepool negotiations are also quite obvious in relation to Greenlanders in Denmark. Some of what I do when I do, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to be involved in the debate on the pool of rates, because I am round and addressing the social rapporteurs of the individual parties. This is precisely the kind of solution-oriented approach in my view. If I cannot sit with myself, how can I help to ensure that those who are sitting with are dressed well enough to also focus on Greenlanders in Denmark. After all, the goal for us is that we sit with ourselves, and I think that when we talk about defence, we have everything else equally much more knowledge about how things look in Greenland and what they are for some things that Greenland is concerned with in relation to the defence's tasks forward-looking in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204945	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204948	How does Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen view the possibility of stopping plans for uranium mining in South Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006204957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205000	There is also a development in this area in Greenland. Unfortunately, there is a political majority that things are looking right now to extract uranium. The IA is directly opposed to this happening. The last thing that has happened is that there is a Chinese investor who has the opportunity to buy up to 60%. of the shares in GME, which is responsible for the extraction of uranium. Of course, we take a critical view of this. I think there is a need for a review board, such as one. has seen in Australia, so you look at the long-term socio-economic interests of Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205042	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205044	Thank you. I want to talk about this about being a member of the defense settlement. I understand that's what you want. After all, there is cooperation between the Danish government and the government in Greenland, including when it comes to defences. There you tell each other what you have to do, but I think it seems difficult to imagine that, for example, Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen can enter the defence settlement without making a complete commitment to what the defence settlement is. It is difficult for new people to get into a conciliation circle unless they completely accept what lies there. I should like to hear this: does Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen plan to say yes to what is now in the defence settlement, and then to come along, even when the Arctic is to be discussed?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205140	Of course, when we enter into some negotiations, we are also dealing with the whole, and in this way we are openly entering into these negotiations. As long as you are sitting outside the door, it is really difficult to relate to what it is for some things that are being discussed, and it is difficult to relate to the overall package. It is therefore extremely important that you sit at the table, and it may well be that you find out along the way that you do not say yes to the package as a whole, but you have to sit at the table. This is an absolutely fundamental prerequisite for being able to contribute and could be involved in that process at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205214	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205215	I have the impression that this door can be opened relatively easily, but if you want to join the defence settlement and join the conciliation circle, you need to accept everything that lies there, including fighters at 30 billion. kr., including what else is in the defence settlement that is now about to be negotiated. It probably starts here in early spring. So if Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen wants to join the defence settlement, I am sure that it will be widely accepted by the conciliation circle, provided that she also accepts everything that lies there and I ask again: are you prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205256	I would be happy to reply more clearly if Mr. Søren Espersen believes it is needed. I think that yes, it is a question of agreeing to these negotiations, and we agree that that is all that needs to be negotiated. An opportunity could also be, if it were not the model one went after it is something that has also been discussed with the Secretary of Defense that one then comes along and contributes to the part that is about the Arctic. That could be an option. But if we enter into the negotiations, we will enter into all the negotiations, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205327	Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205335	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for an exciting statement. In 2013 the Danish Government and the Greenland Government agreed that Greenlandic students in Denmark were eligible for Danish SU. This also means that the SU savings with which the government is barring will go beyond Greenlandic students in Denmark on equal terms, as the SU savings will affect Danish students in Denmark. That is why it may well be that there are particular challenges in relation to SU savings that are linked to Greenlandic students. Could the rapporteur not share my views on whether there can be any challenges for Greenlandic students in relation to these SU savings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205419	Thank you for the question. First of all, it can be said that Greenlandic students travel 4 000 km away when they have to start an education. There are really great linguistic and cultural challenges, at least for some. It is different how good you are at Danish, what Danish assumptions you have when you choose to study in Denmark. Some of what I think is a positive example is, among other things, a positive one. Aalborg Municipality, which offers Greenlandic students academic Danish as part of, you can say, the course they have as students in Aalborg Municipality. I myself put forward a proposal for Naalaksuisut, to the Greenland Government, that you also look at how you could make a summer school and thus help to dress Greenlandic students even better. But there's no doubt that these SU deteriorations will also hit Greenlandic students really, really hard, they'll hit socially wrong, and I also think that there's a need for a solution between the government and the naalaksusut, so that you make sure that it's not because of these SU deteriorations that more people are falling out. We in Greenland have a really, very great need for Greenlandic young people to be well educated and choose to return home after completing their education.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205530	Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205533	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that I very much agree with the rapporteur that there may be some particular challenges here in relation to Greenlandic students. I also note that the rapporteur says that there is a call for solutions to be found between the governments of Greenland and Denmark for this group. Could the rapporteur comment on what solutions that could be? Is the rapporteur aware of how many students from Greenland in Denmark will be affected by these SU deteriorations with which the government is barring? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205604	As a starting point it is all the Greenlandic students who will be affected, and there are somewhere between 500 and 600 Greenlandic students studying in Denmark. There is a need to go in and have a dialogue about it. Should we help to ensure that they continue to receive the SU to which they are used and to which they are being given today? We have a very high drop-out. I mean, it's about 40 percent.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205638	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205643	It is also the theme of education that leads me to ask questions. Because I sometimes think that what may make the dialogue more difficult is that in a number of areas there are many of the things that have been said that you would like to support, and on the other hand there is always the fact that you should not help someone who has not asked for help there is this balance. However, I think what Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen said about education and the availability of education, not least good vocational training, was extremely wise. That is why I just want to ask: is there anything in this context that can be done by the government, by the Danish Parliament, to help with those ambitions? Because I fully share the idea that education, and this applies both in Denmark and in Greenland, is the best we can give to the next generation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205737	Thank you for the question. I have said in the past that I believe that Naala Suisut has a rather lax attitude towards this, that is to say that one will try to examine what options might be available. However, I believe that as many young people as possible should be kept in education as politically as possible. Everyone who knows just a little bit about Greenland knows how important it is that we get more well-educated people who can also take some of the jobs that are in Greenland and help develop Greenland as well. Fortunately, we see that many of our students choose to go back to Greenland after they have read in Denmark or elsewhere. So yes, there is certainly a need for a politically more ambitious approach to ensuring better conditions in Greenland. In this dialogue, I believe that the government can help to find a concrete solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205823	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205826	Tripartite discussions have now been held in Denmark precisely with a focus on e.g.: The practical situation in relation to vocational training, and some of what I sometimes wonder about, even after having been in Greenland several times, is that when something happens, a big building or something else, you often have to bring in the workforce, even though there are actually plenty of people who could be trained to carry out those tasks. That is why the question is whether it is the kind of action that is needed, that is to say closer cooperation with the trade union movement, with employers and possibly a Danish government as intermediary, in order to resolve it, because it seems a paradox to bring in labour when there is plenty of people.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205909	This could be one of the solutions that needed to be found, but I really think it is a question of creating proper conditions. It is also about the fact that a great many of the young people who really should be in education have decent social conditions. Now I mentioned earlier the challenges that are too many children and young people. It is also reflected in the fact that for many people it is difficult to take an education. So the social area, education and the labour market are inextricably linked when we talk about well-being from childhood onwards. Well, that's reflected. Could we just get this positive spiral going so that more people get trained and more thriving and get into work?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205948	Then it's Roger Matthisen from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006205949	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I had the pleasure of being with the Greenland Committee recently and was deeply fascinated by the country and what Greenland has to offer the Kingdom Community. I am actually very, very much in agreement with the rapporteur that we must ensure equality and mutual recognition, mutual respect. But in order to ensure this, we have to have some kind of knowledge, and I think that knowledge of Greenland in Denmark is terribly small, so I would like to hear some recommendations from the rapporteur on how and where Denmark can address that knowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006210033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006210034	A very specific place where I think we can take action is to support the efforts of civil society, so Greenlanders in Denmark also want to make a voluntary effort. So you could help support the work they do, so that they could help create a greater knowledge of Greenland. Very often it is the social problems that somehow control the media image that is of Greenland, and I think that if you get this positive spiral going, which I have talked about several times now, it will also be reflected in the fact that we get more positive stories from Greenland, that we have reversed the picture that is of Greenland. But culturally Greenland has a lot to offer. We have a huge talent pool of people who are very good at both music and movies and all sorts of different things. And if you helped to support it, it could be a special pool that was made for Greenlandic projects by the government. Then you could help create a better knowledge of Greenland and Greenlandic culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006210138	Sir. Roger Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006210139	Thank you. That sounds really exciting. We ourselves are also very concerned about culture and how it will affect our social development. But now the rapporteur is talking about the fact that we have a lot of focus on the vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark, and I really agree that this is sometimes too excessive. But at the same time there was a hearing in the spring where we were informed that 44 per cent. by the Greenlanders in Denmark experience discrimination by the Danes. And as a visible minority myself, I think it is a dramatic number and very, very unfortunate. And I want to hear the rapporteur again what she thinks about what overall strategies Denmark can tackle to ensure that we get rid of this discrimination.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006210225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006210226	One of the things I noted in the report by the Institute for Human Rights on equal treatment for Greenlanders in Denmark was that part of the discrimination that took place was also from public employees, and I just think that is not right. I believe that if you want to break prejudice, it is about knowledge and it is about dialogue. I would very much like to see a Council for Greenlanders established in Denmark, where the government also helped to ensure that there was an understanding of the conditions under which Greenlanders in Denmark live, but also that they helped to ensure some more knowledge in general in Danish society, including in primary school, about modern Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006210309	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006210311	I agree that we all need to learn a little more about Greenland, but now you have at least been very busy visiting us here recently, and thank you very much for the last time. It was very interesting to be with the Committee on Legal Affairs in Greenland. And there we heard about some of the issues that are, for example. in relation to the layman system, etc., but as someone also said, one has to start from the reality there is. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur how we in Parliament can support some of the improvements that need to be made. Because we cannot suddenly make the settlements closer together or with one blow get more professional defenders or judges. So what is the role of the Folketing in getting some of the improvements that Marcus Knuth mentioned and which the rapporteur also mentioned in his speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006210412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006210413	Thank you for the question. I also think that we need to start from the reality that exists. And there we very much experience in Greenland that things are sometimes not as ideal as one might wish they were. I believe that the task as a politician is also to look into the future and see what needs are forward-looking. What's the need in five years, in ten years, in 15 years? And there I think we also need to talk about how we can ensure a proper legal system, legal certainty for the Greenlandic people, which is worthy, and where we ensure that we are constantly adjusting the justice system that we have. Some of this can, of course, be done with continuing training, which is based precisely on the resources we have. We were also out to see that there are actually a lot of resources. There are very many places where things actually work in the reality that is. That is why I believe that we must always have some ambition and look forward, have some vision of where, for example. Justice needs to move.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006210517	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006210519	Thank you. I fully agree with that. I just want to hear quite specifically in the area I cover in this discussion, namely the area of justice: how can committees, how can the Folketing help to provide concrete support for some things? The rapporteur himself said that perhaps it is also a question of getting more involved at least in the Greenland MFs in negotiations, but is it also a question of resources? It is almost always, but what can the Danish Parliament do in relation to the entire division of powers?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006210557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006210558	Thank you for the question. One of the things I would like to propose in the Committee on Legal Affairs is that we should, among other things, do something about it. will have a hearing, because I think that is how we have scratched the surface and gained a knowledge of the justice system in Greenland. However, we have also identified some areas where some things work very well and where some very good results have been achieved, but where we also need to constantly discuss how we can develop the area. A national defence agency, which will be set up here during the autumn, I also find interesting for us as a Parliament to follow. Is that enough? Is there enough resources? How can we ensure that the initiatives we are launching are also followed up and we do not forget the good efforts that have been made?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006210640	We thank Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006210701	Thank you very much, President. It is so true when the Prime Minister says that the Kingdom is unique and special. That's why I'm gonna start by signing for the good parliamentary year we've had. For the first time the Kingdom Community is part of the government base, the debate on the Kingdom was the longest ever, there have been several very important reports, and we have been invited to the financial law negotiations this time. These are steps in the right direction. It is good to hear that the Prime Minister considers the conditions of our children and young people at home important and that his government is happy to contribute something good to our efforts to create a better framework for all our children and young people. The deteriorating conditions of Greenlandic students due to the progress reform, the Greenlandic congregation and the priestly service, the special effort for the socially vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark, a strengthened legal area in Greenland, are among the topics I have addressed in the Finance Law negotiations. I have good hopes that they will be heard and taken into account in further consideration in the process. Thanks again for inviting me. I'm already looking forward to the next meeting. However, the Kingdom is so much more than children and young people in Greenland as well as vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark. Denmark has full responsibility for 32 areas in Greenland. It would be too comprehensive for me to mention the challenges in all 32 areas, but I would just like to highlight a few areas of justice, because I think that they deserve a thorough review, in the same way that the defence has been given its analysis of its future task solution so that the queue for serving a sentence does not grow again, so that the processing times remain reasonable, so condemned in human conditions, so that the staff in the institutions get a good education and a proper salary, so that the police have the necessary equipment and so that the municipalities and municipal officials have proper working conditions. The Kingdom is unique, as the Prime Minister himself says. Yes, Greenland also has a unique role in the kingdom community, and Denmark also has a unique role to play with the Americans because of the Americans' presence in Greenland. There are currently important matters that have a high political priority in order to maintain good relations between Greenland and Denmark. The Americans' presence over many years, from World War II to today, has brought with them many good things, as far as Greenland is concerned, but also less good things. During the summer, an international highly cited report entitled "The Abandoned Ice Sheet Base at Camp Century, Greenland, in a warming climate " was published in the scientific journal Geophysical Research Letters. The report shows how one of the surviving American plants in Greenland has more than 9,200 tonnes of physical waste, such as buildings and railway equipment, 200,000 litres of diesel fuel and PCBs, over 24 million. In sewer water and low-radioactive sewage stored in unprotected swamps. The report also shows that in melting the ice sheet in Greenland there is a risk of leakage and pollution and, as the researchers point out in their report, neither the landfill of waste nor the radioactive contamination of the area is unfortunately something remarkable in Greenlandic terms. Meanwhile, efforts are being made in other parts of the Arctic world at other 63 former U.S. air stations to clean up PCBs and other environmentally harmful substances. It is all over the Arctic circle, in Alaska and Canada, but unfortunately nothing happens on the Danish side. The Camp Century issue has a lot of political attention on the part of Greenland, but it seems as if it is not more important and important for Denmark, unfortunately. Camp Century is just one of the many areas in Greenland where the Americans have left behind a great deal of damage to the environment. The Minister for the Environment and Food visited Ikkatseq in East Greenland in August and then a abandoned base with very environmentally dangerous material that was just allowed to lie and float. It has been allowed to do so since 1947. It is fuel, asbestos, heavy metals and, according to some American sources, also non-toned explosives. At that time, the Minister said that Greenland should not be the world's dustbin, but there were no concrete statements about what the government is going to do to solve the pollution problems. The issue of cleaning up both Camp Century and the other American and Danish military installations has great political attention from Greenland. But it seems that Denmark does not have the great interest and commitment in doing something about it. Here I would like to ask the Prime Minister directly what his government thinks about Camp Century and whether the Prime Minister believes that the Americans should be asked without hesitation to clean up after them and that this should be coordinated with the authorities in Greenland so that we have conditions with which both countries in the Kingdom community can live. When Denmark allows the Americans to be in Greenland, it is important that you do not use Greenland as a waste place, and that Denmark just reaps good from the good relations they have with the Americans, while the Greenlanders have to fight to benefit from their presence. Greenland lost the Thuleservice contract; Greenland's benefit from the Americans' presence may lie in a very small place. I would like to see a unique relationship between Greenland and Denmark based on the unique communities we have and as regards the agreements Denmark has with other countries where Greenland and the Greenlandic people are affected. We live very much by our nature, either in the form of commercial fishing or in the form of catching food. It is important that we not only protect ourselves from pollution but also manage our living resources sustainably. That is why we are following the scientifically fixed quotas for whaling, which are set by the International Whaling Commission, the IWC. It is an important forum for Greenland. Greenland considers that the management of our Great Whales and our membership of the IWC are very important in the international cooperation we have. Since Greenland does not negotiate under its own flag but negotiates via Denmark, I think it is extremely important that the relationship between Greenland and Denmark is as good as possible and that there is one vote on behalf of all three of us. Changes in negotiating strategy and changes in instructions and working methods are of great importance to our negotiating position. We do not always agree with each other, but I believe that we must respect each other's differences and different views if Greenland and Denmark are to have a strong negotiating mandate in the IWC in future. After all, Greenland is the only country in the whole Kingdom community, which is, so to speak, Great Whaling Nation. The Prime Minister did not mention the Arctic in his speech. The Arctic part of the Commonwealth is 20%. of the entire Arctic. The former Arctic strategy, which is coming to an end, has brought little with it. On the contrary, I find it difficult to see any significant improvements that are based on the 2011 strategy itself, unfortunately. But two important reports have been published in the time of this government: the Taksøe Report and the Arctic Defence Analysis. I am very pleased to read that the Prime Minister considers the efforts of the Kingdom Community in the Arctic areas important. What are the Prime Minister's thoughts on these, and what can be expected of government efforts in the near future? I would like to take this opportunity to focus again on the conditions of our young students here in Denmark. The young people move from another culture, so they have to get used to it. They have moved from the country and the family to a Danish city. Often they study in English, which is their second foreign language. Many students are doing well, but on average Greenlandic students spend longer studying than Danish fellow students. Therefore, there is a need for a derogation for the rules of the progress reform on SU, so that Greenlandic students do not fall out unnecessarily. The Danish National Church has lost some of its members in recent years, but this cannot be said to be the case for the Greenlanders living in Denmark. We find spiritual welfare important. However, the Greenlandic congregation has very bad conditions, despite the fact that we pay church taxes like everyone else in this community. To be allowed to hear your own language at weddings, christenings, confirmations and funerals and in connection with soul grief is important. We have one Greenlandic priest to 18,000 Greenlanders living in Denmark. The Church Minister informed me last year that work is being done on the establishment of a Greenlandic church council during 2017 as well as the appointment of a Greenlandic priest for native Greenlanders. I welcome the initiative and I am pleased that we are being listened to in this area, and I look forward to seeing the outcome on the table in particular. The Prime Minister says that the vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark are an issue that he considers important and that something needs to be done about it. I am very pleased to hear that. After all, there are two very important reports which the Prime Minister himself is in charge of, and this is the report by the Social Research Institute SFI on socially vulnerable and the Institute for Human Rights's report, which shows that a very large proportion of Greenlanders living in Denmark are subject to discrimination against the Danish system. This is clear in the reports and there are a number of recommendations for policy initiatives that are very interesting. I am happy to hear what the Prime Minister's more concrete ideas are about the improvements when he mentions the socially vulnerable Greenlanders in particular in his speech. Much has been said and written about Greenland in the past parliamentary year. A number of the challenges and problems we face have been analysed. Now we need to focus on finding constructive solutions. A coherent policy is needed for the entire Kingdom community. I would like to promise the Prime Minister that if his government puts on the work clothes in this matter, I will be a constructive partner in that work. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006211745	Thank you. We shall now turn to the brief comments and the first is from Mrs Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006211751	Thank you. And thank you for a good speech. It is the case that when we Danish politicians visit Greenland, we always meet with the police, and we do so both in Nuuk and in the settlements we visit around. And it is the case that the police in Greenland are very successful in preventive work, especially in relation to domestic violence and domestic violence, and they are actually so successful that they want to spend more time on that particular work. I would like to hear from the rapporteur what tasks should be taken away from the Greenland police in order to free police resources for other work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006211847	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006211849	It is true that the work of the police in Greenland is of a slightly different nature than the work of their Danish colleagues in Denmark. Greenlandic policemen are doing a little more work in Greenland than their colleagues in Denmark do, because society looks different and we have fewer resources, so we have to run a little faster to achieve the same thing. Having said that, I think that the police in Greenland have a very good cooperation with the municipalities in the social field. In particular, cooperation is concerned with information on anti-violence and information on the sexual abuse of children, in particular information campaigns against sexual abuse, and with police involvement it is ensured that there is a common thread throughout society. We're going to find it hard to do without the police's efforts in this area. Having said that, however, I also think that we should look at the standards of the police and compare them with the tasks to be carried out. As we stand now, I find it difficult to see that the police are not part of our prevention work at the same time, because in the end they are the ones who see things in the first instance, and very often the policeman knows the local people in his own small village, and I think visibility is very important.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006212010	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006212011	However, the Greenland police state that they are doing a number of tasks that the police should not actually do, i.e. tasks that might have to lie with the municipality instead, because they want to do police work and preventive work. Can the rapporteur point to some of the areas which could perhaps be moved from the police to the municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006212037	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006212038	I think it is important that we look at the recommendations of the Greenland Judicial Commission back in 2004. In this context, there are a number of recommendations which point to improvements in the Greenland legal system, including as regards the work of the police. They have far from been implemented, and funds for these improvements are far from being set aside. Unfortunately, from the Commission's recommendations until today, a great many years have passed, and that is why, in connection with my speech, I stress that we must also have an analysis in the field of justice that is more up to date, so that in the future we have framework conditions that are better than they are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006212122	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006212124	Thank you. I fully share Mrs Aleqa Hammond's concerns about the environment in the Arctic region and also agree that where pollution has been carried out by Denmark, it must be corrected, also in relation to what the Americans may have done. In this connection, I would like to ask Mrs Aleqa Hammond: what does the Greenlandic local government and Landsting do even when it comes to cleaning up these very notorious dumps, which lie outside both towns and villages, and where all sorts of junk are thrown into the water, from refrigerators to jeeps, to cars, to everything there is? It is a disgrace, I think, that this has not happened a long time ago, and I would like to ask Mrs Aleqa Hammond, who knows the circumstances and I know that she is not in the Landsting, but yet knows the circumstances: when is this going to be tackled? It is a pollution problem which is far, far greater than what is depicted in relation to, for example, the environment. Defense property.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006212231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006212233	The environment and waste management is an area of action taken back to Greenland. Greenland has recognised for many, many years that we have a problem and a delay in dealing with our own waste, and in this context I also believe that our attempts to make incineration better than we have ever done before have far from gone as well as we really want. In most places, including in some villages, incineration plants have been built, but to make it work as optimally as possible, we are far from achieving the goal. But the problem is being addressed and the serious problem that we all want solved, because it does not look good or good for the environment. Having said that, I also think that in this context it is not a question of what is worse. In this context, it is that we are responsible for the environmental pollution we make ourselves at home, but it is also, I think, another chapter when it comes to the presence of the Americans and that they use the Greenland ice sheet as their waste dumping site, and that is by no means acceptable. You have to separate the two things, it also has at home in two different places.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006212340	Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006212342	It's not that I want a competition for what's worse. I just want to say that this is a problem that the Greenlanders have had for 30 years or more and that it is often mentioned in different contexts. In other words, it was something similar that happened here or elsewhere in Europe, where you just tilted cars over the quay and then left them there, then I think there would be an outcry. I have tried to raise this debate many times in Greenland; I also tried to get the Danish Government to ask questions to its Greenlandic friends, but nothing happens. It may well be that Mrs Aleqa Hammond says that it is now being dealt with, but I have to say that I simply do not trust that. Why isn't it removed? Why isn't the mess we're talking about cleaned up?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006212427	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006212430	Anyone who leaves behind the mess has to clean up his mess and is also on the bill all the way through, in full. I also think that waste management in Greenland has received much more political attention than it has ever been given before, because it is piled up. That goes without saying. Greenland has a cooperation on municipal waste in Denmark, and Greenland has also seen the collection of batteries both in public buildings and private homes and in the same way that I think is heading in the right direction, but that is far from good enough. Having said that, however, I still think that the second, which I have mentioned in my speech, is far from acceptable, and Denmark must answer for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006212512	Then it's mr. Magnus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006212514	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. I am very pleased that the rapporteur has touched on precisely defence. However, I would like to say that I do not think that the criticism of Denmark is quite fair. There is, of course, the question in relation to the Americans, but if you think about what enormous effort the Danish defence is making right now, has made over decades, yes, then I do not think that criticism is entirely objective, especially if you look at our new Arctic analysis and look at the increased effort that Denmark faces in the Arctic. This is not only an advantage in terms of security policy, not least in view of the increased activity in the Arctic, but also because of the increased presence, which will benefit purely civilianly, also in relation to search and rescue operations. Can the rapporteur comment on what the rapporteur thinks about the new Danish Arctic strategy?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006212614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006212616	I would not say that Denmark has a new Arctic strategy. They have an ongoing Arctic Strategy, which is from 2011 and is due to expire in 2020. It has not been evaluated yet, but despite that we have fortunately received a defence-Arktis analysis, and I hope it will be the next point of reference for what we can expect from Danish areas of action in relation to the defence issue. One thing is certain, and that is that Denmark, together with the other neighbours of the North Pole, has made a declaration in 2008, called the Ilulissat Declaration, which says that the Arctic area, which consists of five neighbouring countries to the North Pole, must be a peaceful area that is demilitarised. You agree with each other on that, it's really good. Having said that, I still think that the Arctic analysis also underlines the Taksøe report, which points out that the future foreign policy area on the Danish side will be the Arctic area. Then I think we also have a lot of things that we still need to talk about to make sure that we also feel co-ownership of the strategy that may now come in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006212727	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006212729	Perhaps the rapporteur could also make a few comments on what we can do to increase Greenlandic commitment and local Greenlandic support for the Danish defence presence and operations in the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006212743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006212745	Greenland generally has a very good cooperation with the defence where we can help solve the tasks at sea, i.e. when it is sea rescue and similar. I would like to say that the sea survey and the production of charts are far from complete and that it does not meet the cooperation agreement between the Greenland Government and Denmark. It won't be ready on time. I think it is really, really important that we do things better here to ensure that all movements in Greenland waters are secured under Danish responsibility. Having said that, I still think that the Arctic policy, which may now come from the government, is very exciting.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006212834	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006212836	Thank you. I very much agree with Mrs Aleqa Hammond on the problems of the US military bases, and I also think it is important that a solution is found. I also think that, in this matter, it must be the case that those who have created the pollution also clean up, even though they claim that they have left Greenland after a clean-up. And I personally believe that the Americans should pay rent when they are in such an attractive area as Greenland, for example. Up on Thule Base. But this is another problem I would like to ask about: Kvanefjeld and GME, who have sold part of their shares to a Chinese company. In any case, the press has shown that the Chinese have the right to buy a majority in GME. Is that right, and if so, what does Mrs Aleqa Hammond think about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006212936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006212939	To start with the presence of the Americans and the waste they leave behind: my example in the rapporteur's speech is only one example out of a great many. This is just Camp Century, and the numbers are cruel. We really ought to do something about that. Elsewhere in the Arctic, both in Alaska and in Canada, there are 63 DEW Stations that have been left by the Americans. Cleaning is under way, and in some places they have already finished, whereas in Greenland you haven't started a single place. And you don't even negotiate on clean-up. I think that is alarming at world level. Having said that, as far as Kvanefjeld is concerned, for that matter, as far as all the mining projects in Greenland are concerned, we would like to see Danish investments. We would like to see active Danish participation to ensure that you can get a win-win situation out of the mining infrastructure development in Greenland. It's not a question of it being Chinese. Nor is it a question of whether it is Australians or British. It is a question of international interest in projects in Greenland, where I would like to see Danish participation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006213045	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006213047	Yes, but personally I feel that we need to discuss the safety of uranium extraction. Where's it going? On the market, it turns out that there are several thousand examples of uranium being traded black. And there are states in the world that we do not want to deliver uranium to. That is why I find it problematic. As far as pollution is concerned, I think I would like to wait and hear the Prime Minister what he has done to get the Americans to clean up after him. I think it is quite a scandal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006213122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006213124	I think that Greenland and Denmark have an excellent dialogue with each other as regards mining in the future, when it comes to conventions which Denmark has ratified on behalf of Greenland. In this context, I believe that the working groups have also pointed out very good initiatives to ensure that there is transparency at all times as regards safety issues relating to the extraction of mineral raw materials in Greenland. Having said that, I still believe that in Greenland there is no mining solely for uranium. Uranium is a by-product when you are interested in the extraction of rare earths.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006213207	Thank you. And then it's sir. Roger Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006213211	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. In fact, I would just like to support the rapporteur and, to that extent, Mr President. Christian Juhl says that we need Denmark to actively go in and help with this cleanup. I think it's a little too bad that Mr. Søren Espersen speaks a little down to Greenland in relation to the pollution. Denmark itself has 29 000 contaminated sites for which we have not yet established a strategy, and we are, after all, a really old nation. But I would like to hear a little bit about visions for Greenland and for Nuuk. When I was on a committee trip, there were others. a Greenlander who came and said that Nuuk should be the capital of the Arctic, and I would like to hear the rapporteur's views and recommendations on how to make Nuuk the capital of the Arctic.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006213312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006213314	To take the last first: Nuuk is already the capital of the Arctic. No, I don't think it's a question of which city should be the capital of the Arctic, because the Arctic is a lot of things. The Arctic includes different forms of government and different peoples, including: indigenous peoples and federal governments. The most important thing for us is that there is openness and good cooperation in the Arctic regions, not only within the Arctic Council and not only within the Arctic Five, but also among indigenous peoples about their rights, environmental protection and human rights. It is very important that we have that cooperation. We can meet alternately in one place or another. I would like to see direct Danish active participation in the design of Arctic policies. I see that the European Union has a very clear Arctic policy. I see that other countries with which we compare ourselves have very clear Arctic policies. I find it difficult to see where Denmark wants to go in Arctic cooperation, despite the fact that the Danish kingdom accounts for 20%. of the entire Arctic. We need clear guidelines on what we want with each other in the Arctic foreign policy aspect.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006213426	I would just like to say that we are very pleased with the new opportunities we have been given for sitting over here in the sidelines. But when you speak out loud, it is also very clear in this Chamber. Sir. Roger Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006213435	Thank you. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen speaks very warmly about an investment fund for the Arctic. How does the rapporteur see that we can use it and which parties think the rapporteur should be involved in such a fund?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006213451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006213453	The Arctic areas, especially in the case of Greenland, need partners. The infrastructure investments and mining investments we need cannot be carried out on our own. It's a fact. This means that Greenland must have partners from outside. As I said, we would like to see Danish investment in it. If we cannot get it, Greenland is working hard to find investment from other countries. Greenland needs partners, and I would like Denmark to be a good partner in this matter. Having said that, I also think that...
ParlaMint-DK_20161006213532	Thank you to Mrs Aleqa Hammond. There are no more questions, so we will move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Gundelach. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006213538	Thank you. Good evening. I have great respect for Denmark's celebration of Danish democracy and the constitution, and I also respect your decisions on how you will make the Danish national symbol visible in Denmark. I don't want to get involved in that at all. And who would understand it better than a conquest with a strong national consciousness? I remember from my younger days as a radio reporter, when the Faroese handball team had to play a World Cup match against Italy, that the Belgian organizers wanted to play the Danish national anthem before the match. The Faroese handball players did not accept this and decided instead with team captain Hanus á Kjalnesi in the lead to sing the national anthem • Tú alt fagra land mítt • for the stop-filled sports hall, so it roared throughout the hall. Such a strong and passionate mark from the Faroese handball players did not just touch me as a radio reporter. It also won the hearts of the audience, and they played a firefight, which took the spectators by storm. It was this pride that was stepped on in the flag case when it was first decided to flag for the Faroe Islands on the wrong day, then raised the wrong flag and then did not have the courage to correct the mistake and say sorry. But the Prime Minister can still make that right. "Nothing new from the Western Front" is called a book we all read at school, and it fits very well with the content of the Prime Minister's speech as far as the Faroe Islands are concerned. I wish the Prime Minister had the same respect for the Faroe Islands' desire to rooted our democracy in a Faroese constitution as we have for Denmark's democratic institutions and national symbols. In the speech we heard the usual warning that if the Faroese people should adopt a constitution that does not fit in with the interpretation by the Ministry of Justice and the Prime Minister of what can be contained within or outside the Constitution, then there is a threat of a de facto Faroese exit from the Kingdom Community as the only alternative to that. Perhaps we should call it Fixit. It is a true copy of the entry to the referendum of 14 September 1946. It was demanded that the Faroese should decide in a referendum whether to crawl to the cross and resume the position of county in the kingdom or break away from the kingdom, because there was absolutely no possibility of a pragmatic solution between them outside the framework of the constitution. However, as in Britain a few months ago, the result came as a shock to the power elite. The people voted in favour of secession, and suddenly there was room for a pragmatic solution with far-reaching autonomy, for now the framework of the constitution had suddenly become more elastic. In my party we do not have to mourn such a development, because we simply believe that our people should decide in their own country and take responsibility for their own destiny. But we also respect the fact that we are part of a democracy and that the present government in Tórshavn does not have the programme to proclaim the sovereign state of the Faroe Islands. But we agree that the Faroe Islands must have their own constitution. However, it is not a secession document. The Faroese Constitution must only regulate what we all already know: that the Faroe Islands are a country, that the Faroe Islands are a people, and that we have the right of self-determination to determine our own destiny in the world community, so that the power in the Faroe Islands is ultimately with the Faroese people. These conditions have been confirmed countless times by successive Danish prime ministers, so no one in the Prime Minister's Office or the Ministry of Justice can be surprised. The Faroese constitution will only be the identity card of the Faroese people and guide into the future, and this identity card is based on what we have achieved and built since the first people settled in the Faroe Islands. No citizen gets worse off than before. On the contrary, there will only be further manifestations of citizens' rights and clarity about the framework within which the legislative, executive and judicial authority exercises its power. This will strengthen the cohesion of our societies and put greater pressure on our politicians to act in relation to long-term perspectives rather than short-term populism. I recommend that the government enter into the dialogue on a Faroese constitution on a modern and constructive basis that can lift the Faroe Islands. For if any strategists or spin doctors are in the misconception that you can turn the Faroese people off course towards independence, then they have done the bill without the host. I did it for the Faroe Islands! The now world-famous Ove Joensen said about the farm when he rowed alone 30 years ago in a boat from the Faroe Islands across the Atlantic and kissed the Little Mermaid on Langelinie after the long voyage at sea. His boldness and toughness are legendary and unsurpassed. No matter what challenges he faced, he continued his journey. Twice he was beaten back, three times he took up the fight again, and despite the raging of the elements he rowed steadily through high waves and strong headwind and reached the goal after 41 days at the oars. Ove Joensen made the impossible possible. His achievement can be compared with the journey of Faroese independence from a poor island society with a language threatened by extinction to a modern welfare state and a flourishing Faroese culture. It has been a long, tough move which has led us to a modern society based on a strong national identity and talented people who thrive on the challenges that arise in the struggle to assume responsibility for an independent people and an independent nation. Today, we often face challenges that others would see as impossible, but where we still achieve results that no one would dream of. Just look at salmon farming, which is the best in the world, and the football results as examples. We are so feared in DBU that Denmark chose a training match against Liechtenstein rather than challenging the Faroe Islands. The Prime Minister said in his speech: "If Denmark is on the trail while the countries around us are stepping on the accelerator, then generations will miss out on new opportunities, and that must not happen. ▪ And that certainly applies to the Faroe Islands too. We're not stopping here, we're moving on. We must create more values, pay off debts and make ourselves independent of contributions from other countries. We are doing this by strengthening our basic democratic form, and we are doing so through participation in world trade on a basis that serves our country and our citizens and thus also in the interests of Denmark and the so-called Community. But it also requires that we have access to defend our interests and develop our participation in the world community. Since the fishing limit was extended to 200 nautical miles, we have held our own interests in bilateral negotiations with other countries on fishing rights, and we must continue along this path, because it has served us well. In international forums, however, where Denmark has the lead shirt, we unfortunately often encounter the obvious fact that Danish and Faroese interests go in different directions. Denmark simply pays more attention to the European Union than to the Faroe Islands. I do not need to repeat the example of the mackerel dispute, but let me follow up with an example from the International Whaling Commission, where Denmark, together with the EU, supports the establishment of a whale reserve in the South Atlantic, despite the fact that both Greenland and the Faroe Islands are opposed. I know that you support us with regard to grinning and Greenlandic whaling in the Arctic, and I am pleased about that, but that is not enough. If the Whaling Commission and the Animal Protection lobby in Europe are given power as they have observed, then the reservation in the South Atlantic is just the beginning of a development which may later become a real threat to our lives in the Arctic and the North Atlantic. We are opposed to reserve thinking because we want to preserve the right to exploit marine resources in a sustainable way, because that is quite simply what our welfare is based on. Bertel Haarder once wrote in a chronicle in Kristeligt Dagblad, where he philosophed about the future of the Kingdom community, that one should correct some structural errors in the foundation of the Kingdom. He's absolutely right about that. Foreign policy law is a major structural error because it does not give the Faroe Islands the foreign policy space we need to defend our interests and continue to develop our society in a global world. It is also based on the thinking of Denmark as a single state and without due regard for the fact that a large part of its self-determination has been delegated to the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006214629	Thank you. We're gonna have to slow down the negotiations over in the sidelines. We shall now turn to the brief remarks. First, it's sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006214639	Thank you. It was very encouraging to hear the retelling of the story of Ove Joensen, for I actually covered as a journalist on BT his entire 41-day journey and met him on Langelinie. So I got a good impression of him, and it is quite true that it was an impressive deed he did. I'm just gonna ask you about the basic law thing. If I understand that correctly, a constitution will be established in the Faroe Islands, and Mr. Magni Arge can be contained within the constitution. Mr. Magni Arge. It is not certain that the Prime Minister's lawyers mean it. And my question is: why has the Prime Minister's lawyers not been involved in this process, so that we were sure that we did not suddenly find ourselves in a confrontational situation which I believe we are heading towards?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006214735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006214736	Yes, that is an interesting question that the questioner asks. Now I am not the one who leads the pen in the constitutional work that is going on in the Faroe Islands, and I am not really aware of who you involve and who you do not involve. But I am sure you are very well aware of what was in the response sent from the Prime Minister's Office five years ago. I do not think that the situation has changed much since then. However, I am convinced that the starting point for formulating the Constitution today is what you think is best for the Faroe Islands and what you think the Faroese people will decide and back around.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006214820	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006214821	Yes, but now that you have made it clear from changing prime ministers that not only Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen, but also our former Prime Minister, Helle Thorning-Schmidt, that if a constitution is adopted for the Faroe Islands that is contrary to the Constitution, it will immediately be declared null and void, and if you still show up with it, it will be regarded as a resignation from the Commonwealth; now that you know it and have been told very clearly, I cannot get into my head why you are heading towards that confrontation instead of saying that the day when the Faroe Islands acquire independence or want independence, you can implement the Constitution as you like. Why do you deliberately steer towards confrontation? I find that shameful.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006214906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006214907	I do not think that we are deliberately heading towards confrontation. It is heading towards having a reasonable constitution that can strengthen the cohesion of Faroese society. The second question about what the Constitution can contain and cannot contain is not an absolute discipline in which we can say that it is exactly on one line. This has been said in the Ministry of Justice, which is what you have an opinion about in the Prime Minister's Office, but there is also a different opinion on this in the Faroe Islands, and there may also be a third, a fourth and a fifth opinion on it. This is not an absolute discipline. We saw, for example. the fine example of the Home Rule Act, which came through in 1948. No one had thought that was possible within the framework of the Constitution at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006214952	Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006214954	Thank you. I am sorry that the speaker's love for Denmark is less than Denmark's love for the Faroe Islands. But since you know the speaker, you can almost say that the speaker is the Faroese response to Donald Trump. Denmark is the great enemy that makes all the problems for the Faroe Islands. The speaker mentions trade restrictions, export potentials, etc. In his speech, and there I have to say that we Danish do not impose any restrictions on the Faroe Islands to have an active trade policy. We leave that up to them, whether they want to accept the offers of cooperation that we make on the Danish side or not. That is why I would like to ask: does the rapporteur himself not speak of border barriers and barriers, since the rapporteur wants his own airspace and special territories in this way, rather than working with Denmark and getting some strength out of it for both countries and for the Commonwealth?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006215103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006215104	Now there were many things in that comment. I would say that it is probably rare for some Republicans in the Faroe Islands to be compared with the Republicans in the United States. But it is then a delusion that sometimes happens, also for people who are not very enlightened. Then I would also like to say that my love for Denmark is at least as great as the Danes' love for the Faroe Islands. However, I would like to say that there is one thing you should remember, namely that it is Denmark that is the leading dog in the kingdom and in what you call the kingdom community. It is you who decide and set the limits on what the Faroe Islands can do and what Greenland can do. Therefore, it will always be the Faroe Islands that challenge Denmark when we develop in the global society in which we have now ended up. The framework we have is based on the idea of a single state when Denmark acted in a small region of northern Europe. But now we are all part of a global society, and so are the Faroe Islands, and the framework we have is far too tight today because of the foreign policy law we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006215216	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006215217	Thank you for that, President. What I'm trying to do is tell you a little bit about the positions of strength that we have in the kingdom community. We can, of course, lift each other up in the Kingdom Community, but I do not feel that the rapporteur is helping us to lift up together in the Kingdom Community. I find it insistent that Arctic negotiations should be conducted independently from the Faroe Islands, despite the fact that the consequence of this would be that the Faroe Islands should negotiate against Denmark, against Greenland and against the European Union. Does the rapporteur really believe that the Faroe Islands will be stronger in interests that are common to the Kingdom community if one withdraws from that cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006215258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006215259	In some contexts we have a great advantage from being involved in cooperation, and in other contexts we do not have so much benefit from it. The reason why we are outside the European Union is that we do not believe that it serves the Faroese people or the Faroese community to be involved because we lose control of the fisheries resources on which we live. But that is why there may be a great deal of sense in the fact that we are involved, for example. EFTA cooperation. We find that difficult to access because we need to be a member of the WTO in order to be a member of EFTA. We must not do so because, for example, we are not allowed to do so. is limited by the foreign policy law. But when it comes to aviation, I have absolutely asked for us to be able to come together with Denmark into the European free skies.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006215338	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006215339	I really think this is a strange discussion, because when we hear bourgeois politicians talk about the thing about giving the rich a little more, they say that nobody gets poorer by the richest getting tax cuts. It's such a strange way of thinking that I have to get used to hearing. But it could be said with the same right that no one loses democracy by making their own constitution. What was gonna happen about that? Nothing. It is, after all, in the law of self-government. I can't believe that discussion can keep rolling for so long. Once and for all, we have given Faroese and Greenlanders the right to do so, and that is why they must, of course, have the right to do so. And if they formulate a constitution that they can live with, we can live with it too. I guess that's the way it must be. And then you can say that it has to be faster or slower to take things back. Yeah, we can talk about that. I don't understand this debate at all. But maybe someone can make me smarter. Then there's that grinning whale thing. We had a debate a few years ago, and Denmark has provided the police, and what do I know up to there, and the only thing I have disagreed with in this context is that, at one point, the Faroese made a special law banning one environmental organisation Thank you! ) or one organisation, you can call it what you want then it is the rapporteur). Does it still exist?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006215454	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006215455	Now it is the case that I have to join the Latting on 18 October, and then I will keep an update on whether it is still in force or not. However, we have recently adopted a regulation which gives the Faroese authorities the right to prohibit trespassing, i.e. hostile trespassing in Faroese waters, which makes it possible to keep people out, as we know has a bad intention, such as. Sea Shepherds has had. This should avoid the confrontations that are in Faroese territory.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006215531	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006215532	I think that the most important thing is to have a situation where you can quietly catch your grind, eat it and have fun with the meat in the way you now do it. It is almost socialist that you share with the whole town when you slaughter a grind like that, and I like that very much. But I do not like the fact that special legislation is being made with regard to one organisation. And apparently it also seems that it is no longer interesting to come to the Faroe Islands for this organization.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006215604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006215606	I can easily share the rapporteur's concern about this, because we also want to maintain democratic values.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006215614	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006215616	Thank you. And thank you for a very nice speech. I have also expressed my full support in the past for the constitution of the Faroe Islands that you would like to have, and I can only do that again. The rapporteur himself said a little about the fact that in international fora there are sometimes slightly different interests from the Faroe Islands and Denmark. And then there's something I've been asking you a few times today. It acts among other things. on the Paris agreement, the great climate agreement made between all the countries of the world and which Denmark is, fortunately, about to ratify. There I know that there is some conversation between the Faroe Islands and Denmark about whether the Faroe Islands should be part of that accession. I would therefore like to hear from the rapporteur how the rapporteur's party works to ensure that the Faroe Islands become part of this global climate agreement, which it is so important that we all support around.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006215713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006215714	Once again, I must crawl to the cross and acknowledge that I do not know exactly where you are in the process of working together on it. But I can say that in the Faroe Islands there is a very strong ambition to reduce the CO2 so instead of just sitting around talking about being part of conventions on one or the other we are doing something about it. And we're gonna make sure we get to the finish line before most of the others.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006215805	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006215807	It's lovely, and I know the great ambitions of the Faroe Islands in this area and think it's amazing. But that does not mean that it is not also important to stand together globally in order to show the way for other countries. That is why it is really very important for me to say to the rapporteur that I hope that something will be done by the Faroese side to be part of the Paris Agreement, because it is precisely the way forward. One can show that it is possible to create positive changes and still fight for our climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006215837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006215838	But I also recognise that, and if anyone is concerned about the pollution that is actually taking place around the world, it is actually us who are up north and are very much living on the resources that are in the sea, where pollution is quite a major problem and affects all the marine environment we have around us and which really has a major impact on us. So, yes, we're on the team.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006215906	Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006215908	We have the Kingdom Community, which consists of three parts: Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland, and two parts of the Kingdom Community are not members of the European Union. I am therefore a little surprised that some of the rapporteurs mention that we will be weaker if we are not with Denmark, also in terms of our cooperation with the European Union. Despite the fact that the Faroe Islands and Greenland are not members of the EU, Greenland is still a part of an EU cooperation in terms of our status in the OECD. I think that is very important to mention just now. The fact that the Faroe Islands are creating a constitution and are working for it, does the rapporteur consider it to be deliberately working towards a confrontation if not involving the Prime Minister's own lawyers?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006220000	Sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006220003	I'm not quite sure I got the last wording in it. However, I do not believe that it is the lawyers of the Prime Minister's Office who should decide what we think of our own constitutional issues. This is a matter that we must decide for ourselves, and then we must find out how to get out of it afterwards. That is my honest opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006220028	Then it's mr. Roger Matthiesen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006220039	Thank you for that, President. I have to say the same thing as sir. Christian Juhl, that I am completely, completely incomprehensible to this debate we have about a constitution and Greenland and the Faroe Islands and the kingdom community. We have some parties that question the human rights conventions that date back to 1950 and ask whether they should be obsolete and should be updated. But when it comes to the Constitution and a free association, it's suddenly chopped in granite. I don't understand that debate at all. But I'd like to ask you a question about Brexit. How does the rapporteur think that the Faroe Islands are in relation to a community of kingdoms and to enter into negotiations if Article 50 is implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006220115	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006220117	We really believe that we see the possibilities in this, and there will be both pros and cons in that the UK is now leaving the EU. For this means that they become active possessors of the fishery resources that are close to the Faroese border, so that the negotiations on, for example, Pelagic fishing will now take place with the UK and the EU as active partners. So there will certainly be one more that we need to discuss with, and this can easily be an advantage in many respects and certainly also provide easier market access to the British market, while it is the fight for the rights of resources that may lead to tough confrontations in that area sometimes. So there are pluses and minuses about it, but we look at it with confidence.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006220208	Sir. Roger Matthisen, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006220212	Thank you. Then I am thinking of aviation and airspace across the Faroe Islands. The rapporteur has said in the past that he would like to be invited in and have some more transparency with the area. How's that process going?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006220228	Sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006220230	After all, aviation is a very important industry in the Faroe Islands, and we are totally dependent on aviation to develop relations with the outside world. But the legal area itself and the administration of the aviation area is a Danish matter which is administered in the Ministry of Transport, and in this assembly there is then legislation. But a large part of what this assembly has the power to exercise has actually been delegated to the European Union. That is why I think it is very important that, in the context of the new strategy work which is going on in the Ministry of Transport and which this House will be discussing in January and February, the things which are of major interest to the Faroe Islands and Greenland are also included. For us, it is simply the lifeline for the outside world that is at stake, but also a great profession.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006220320	Thank you. Then there are no more questioners, so thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Sjúrður Skaale, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006220331	Thank you. Then the hall is almost drunk, and everyone wants to hear the Prime Minister, and then I'll come on. I'm sorry. Stop whining and use the opportunities that we have. After a fine day at Sandoy, the Faroes committee was at a meeting at the Layerman's office in Tórshavn, and the talk went on about the Faroe Islands' limited opportunities internationally when one of the Danish guests broke through and said: Stop whining. That was fine, the chairman of the committee thought. That's what comes out of it when you're together a few days and know each other a little better, because then you're not so careful, so you dare be spontaneous, so you dare be honest. Lack of knowledge can lead to a superficial relationship in which caution and courtesy are sought to cover up the limited knowledge. A sentence such as "Our Party is in favour of the Kingdom Community," I think, echoes the memory of many. Or we respect the Faroese authorities. ▪ This is an important starting point, of course, but saying respect is not the same as showing respect. The one you respect, you're not so careful about. You walk in the flesh of the person from time to time. Sometimes there can actually be more respect in saying, "Stop whining." However, the greatest danger of lack of knowledge is not excessive caution. The greatest danger when you actually walk in the flesh on someone is that what you say is based on prejudice. Last week I published a great book about the dramatic events around the year 2000, when the relationship between Denmark and the Faroe Islands really went off the rails. This was when the so-called bank case created total mistrust between the countries when the Faroes' layerman sued the government when the Prime Minister repeatedly went on reconciliation trips to the Faroe Islands, and sometimes received an ice-cold reception. That was when the national government accused Denmark of saving billions to allow the United States and NATO to build military stations in the Faroe Islands. That was when the five top ministers of the government, with all their top officials, spent four long days and evenings in exhausting and fruitless negotiations on Faroese independence. That was when the Danish press in something that looked like a campaign, completely without inhibitions, called the Faroese people irresponsible, useless, spoiled and cursed. That was when Denmark's Minister of Justice was specifically bullied on a trip to the Faroe Islands. That was when the government put its officials to figure out how much each one of them inhabited cost the Danish state. This was when the Faroese lager compared Denmark to countries where minorities are not respected. That was when the government passed on to the press documents which had been obtained in confidence from the national government. So completely the relationship went wrong, and it was only 16 years ago anyway. There wasn't much anxiety in the debate back then, but there wasn't much knowledge or understanding or conversation until things went wrong. The unbridled debate was based on prejudice and mistrust, which led in an evil spiral to more prejudice and more mistrust. That is precisely why knowledge is so important. And that is why, as chairman of the Faroes Committee, I am pleased with the great interest that is always in joining us on our trips to the North Atlantic, because that makes the tone a little freer and looser, and it also makes it a little easier for myself and Magni Arge to be a little rough in the tone when we get a little counterplay from the Danes. There's gotta be two for a boxing match. In this context, it was also a fine signal when the Prime Minister decided to flag the Faroese and Greenlandic flags once a year. The fact that a few wrong flags were then hoisted and the initiative therefore came to appear as an example of the ignorance to be combated just showed, as the Prime Minister himself said, how embarrassing the need is. The fact that the wrong flags were replaced with the right flags actually symbolized the very idea of the measure, namely that lack of knowledge and prejudices must be replaced with facts and knowledge. It's fine. But the great task is to move us from the world of symbols to the real world. The task, for example, is: to get systematic teaching about the Kingdom community into primary and secondary schools in Denmark, and to lay a bottom of knowledge that increases interest, for example. press stories from the Faroe Islands feel relevant. They don't when there's no basic knowledge in advance. When you spend a lot of resources both in primary and secondary school teaching children and young Danish, it would also be reasonable if there were at least some mandatory teaching about the Faroe Islands in the Danish school. There isn't now. Flaging is symbolism, but this would be substance. Knowledge and understanding are also becoming increasingly necessary as Denmark and the Faroe Islands in many fields drift apart, not least because of the large dividing line called the EU. I have been working with others for a long time to remove the many obstacles that have arisen between countries. We have approx. 30 obstacles on our list, and it seems to be getting longer and longer. In most cases it is due to different management systems, but sometimes it is due simply to ignorance. The last one this year is for example. that the forefathers who have moved to Denmark have been sent to what is called the International House. That is to say, they have been put in the same category as movers from non-EU countries. It's wrong. These are Danish citizens. But the case workers have just found that these people did not have a Danish CPR number. or were EU citizens, and therefore they were sent in the same queue as people from Peru and Australia. No one wants these obstacles, and a few years ago the Folketing unanimously decided that they should be removed. There is a breakthrough coming, but unfortunately only two of the 30 obstacles on the list have been removed so far. I hope that more will happen in the future, but it is of course difficult because the command lines are different. It is both a Danish responsibility and a Faroese responsibility and a responsibility for us who work in the border country between Denmark and the Faroe Islands. But we need to get this list abbreviated. This is one of my greatest wishes to the government in the years to come. It simply cannot be right that, in our close relationship, we create such cafcasque systems that no one wants and no one is able to get us out of again. I don't usually say much about the internal Danish political game in the Danish Parliament, but when I listened to the Prime Minister's speech on Tuesday, I remembered a story about three men who were bragging about whose profession was the oldest. It was an architect, an electrician and a politician. Originally there was just chaos, said the architect. God was the first architect when He created the world and made order out of chaos. My profession is the oldest, said the architect. No, no, the electrician said, for before God could do anything else, He had to get an overview of the chaos that was he had to create light. God was the first electric installer. My profession is the oldest, said the electrician. No, no, no, the politician said. Before there was anyone else, there were politicians. Who else do you think created the original chaos that you're talking about? Laughter In recent months the debate in Denmark has been very chaotic, it has to be said. Infight in the blue block, accusations of gun policy, threats to overthrow the government, and on Tuesday the Prime Minister outlined the situation. While some parties want public growth of 0.5%. per year, there are others who want a growth rate of 0.6%. Quite so small the differences are of course not in Danish politics, but the differences are And when one can create so much chaos out of such a small difference, one can get the idea that it was the Folketing that the politician mentioned had in mind. We almost want to quote that member of the Faroes Committee when he said: stop whining and use the opportunities that we have. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006221310	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006221318	Thank you. I am very pleased that we are now flying the Faroese flag and the Greenland flag, and I also believe that the rapporteur feels the same way. In fact, I have also been told that there was a slight misunderstanding in the Faroe Islands, where the wrong flag was raised at the courthouse in Thorshavn by a Faroese, I would just like to say here. So I'm thinking that those misunderstandings have now been cleared out, and I don't think there's a Dane who doesn't know the innermost cross in the Faroese flag is red. So we've all learned from it. I also understood from the rapporteur that the rapporteur believes that the Danes know too little about the Faroe Islands, and I fully agree with that. And I fully agree with the fact that there is too little education in the Danish schools. But what is the rapporteur's view that the Danes know too little about the Faroe Islands? And what do the Faroe Islands do about it, and what does the rapporteur think Denmark should do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006221426	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006221430	Thank you. It's a very big question, but a few years ago I did a study on knowledge about the Faroe Islands. And it turned out to be very, very limited. They did not know what position the Faroe Islands had in the kingdom community, they did not know how many people lived in the Faroe Islands, and many thought that the Faroe Islands received 10 billion. kr. per year in block grants. The language situation was not known, and so on. It was very wide. I think that this is about basic knowledge, and when it is in place, I think that it avoids what happened 15-16 years ago with very strong prejudices that flared up and that were based on erroneous things.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006221509	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006221512	Then there is also a question about border barriers. I agree with the rapporteur that we must do everything we can to clear up the border barriers. What is about the CPR numbers, could not the rapporteur just put a few words on it? As far as I know, it is because there is no such thing as CPR numbers in the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006221534	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006221537	It is quite true that there is another system and, for example, when. The Faroe Islands buy many services from the Rigshospitalet, so the patients or doctors need access to the records, and in Denmark they are linked up to the cpr number, and this makes it complicated. When, for example, a concubine... Moving to England, he is a Danish citizen, but he does not get the rights he should have in England, because he needs the CPR number before he leaves. And then he must interstate in Denmark, get an address in Denmark, go into an office and get a CPR number there, and then he can fly on to England. This is the kind of practical situation that is annoying, but, as I said, it is something that Mrs Ellemann-Jensen is working hard to resolve.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006221624	Mrs Karen Ellemann is to be charged with the Minister. Sjúrður Skaale Yes, sorry). Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006221634	Thank you. I can inform the rapporteur that Mrs Karen Ellemann has already sent a letter to the Faroeselayer saying that the problem has been resolved by Denmark. So we can welcome this, just as we can welcome the fact that the flags that were unfortunately wrong were produced in a Swedish factory because they wanted to save money. And, compared to the few flags produced in Sweden, you can say that there was perhaps a reason why they were so cheap. But now the rapporteur has finally got a government that is in favour of the Commonwealth and the Faroe Islands and, following on from that we have solved the CPR issue, I would like the rapporteur to mention the two or three things that the rapporteur will highlight as the greatest help from the previous government for cooperation in the Faroe Islands-Denmark community.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006221722	You still have to say the Minister, not Mrs Ellemann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006221726	Thank you. I did not quite understand the question, but it was something about what progress was made under the last government. Yes, well, there we had a very big conflict between the Faroe Islands and the EU, and I think there was a good dialogue between the Faroe Islands, myself and the government, so that that conflict was overcome without breaking out in a great conflict between Denmark and the Faroe Islands. It was a conflict between the EU and the Faroe Islands, in which Denmark was, as it were, squeezed, and I think that the Faroese views were put forward in a good way in Brussels. An attempt was made to represent the Faroese interests, even if you are a member of the European Union. It was also permitted that the Faroe Islands in the name of Denmark could raise a case at the International Court of the Law of the Sea, so that the Faroe Islands like borrowed Denmark's membership and raised a case against the EU, formally in the name of Denmark, but in fact in the name of the Faroe Islands, so also raised a case against Denmark, against the EU, not true. I think that this conflict was successfully resolved in a pragmatic way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006221839	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006221841	Thank you. If you look at the list of border barriers that we are all very concerned about, are there any crosses or flybones that were placed under the previous government? In addition, we have now solved the CPR challenge, and I would like to ask the rapporteur if he can highlight the biggest and most important border barrier that will be resolved next time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006221903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006221905	I believe that all Danish governments have an interest in solving this. I do not think it can be divided into blocks, i.e. as to who is most interested in solving these problems. But we had a few last years removed, for example. something called graduation, that is, where a Dane who has completed his training could go to the EU with the graduating rate for 3 months, but not to the Faroe Islands. There were such technical things. Now we have solved some more, but I actually think it is wrong to put it up in such a way that someone has more interest than others in removing those obstacles. I think the whole system has an interest in getting out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006221939	Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006221943	Thank you very much and thank the rapporteur for a very interesting and very good speech. I, like a lot of people, also stumbled over this cross-border barrier thing. This is not a new issue. This is a well-known issue and something that has been fought for for many years. The rapporteur has also personally fought for this for a great many years here in the Danish Parliament, and the North Atlantic mandates have also provided their input on what sort of areas we believe should be given priority as early as February this year. That is why I would like to hear something from the rapporteur. I understand the rapporteur's impatience, and I would very much like to hear the rapporteur what opportunities the rapporteur sees in pushing to ensure that some of these barriers are removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006222039	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006222041	I mean, you can't push it with anything but words and create an understanding of it. And, of course, such a coordinator group has been set up in the Ministry of Social Affairs, which is taking care of this. The main obstacle in the case of the Faroe Islands is CPR numbers, and when it is changed to allow for temporary administrative CPR numbers to be issued, many of the 30 on the list will be removed, so that we see this as the biggest obstacle at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006222107	Here you go, Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006222110	Thank you. There are a number of areas where the Faroe Islands are slightly ahead of Greenland, and that is among other things. in relation to the graduation allowance and in relation to the driving licence. And I think it would be interesting to hear the rapporteur's experience in pushing, because it could also be very interesting for Greenland to benefit from that experience.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006222130	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006222132	Thank you. It is a very technical question. The short answer is that when you have to take a driving licence in the Faroe Islands, you go to Denmark, and if you are also going to have an international one, you have to change the Danish one with an international one without any test between. It's a stupid arrangement. But it's also being solved, fortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006222155	Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006222200	The Faroe Islands' trade in the fisheries sector with their own partners around the world is not necessarily something that takes account of the interests of the Danes, in other words, of trading partners. In this context, I see that the Faroe Islands' trading partner is Russia, really, very much. They are not necessarily Denmark's priority number. 1 to make trade with, since one has issues based on that as far as the unrest is concerned. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he believes that it has benefited cooperation in the Kingdom Community or whether it has caused sparks to be caused by the fact that the Faroe Islands are cooperating more and more closely in the area of fisheries trade with Russia.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006222245	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006222248	It's actually a case that works very well. Although Denmark sanctions Russia and is sanctioned by Russia in return, the Faroe Islands are not part of the EU and are not subject to the sanctions, and trade between the Faroe Islands and Russia runs as it has always done. It's actually grown. I know this is a delicate issue, but as I have explained before, we believe it is important that we have cooperation, also strategically, with Russia in the north, while there is a conflict in the south. The trade between the Faroe Islands and Russia that is taking place has not been contradicted, and for example. NATO has not protested against it but, on the contrary, has approved the continuation of trade because there is a great interest in trade and cooperation with Russia in the north, while there is a conflict in the south. And Denmark has accepted that as well. There have been no formal protests by Denmark against that trade.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006222342	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006222345	When we talk about the Kingdom Community in general, not only here in the Chamber, but also in general in Denmark, we very often find that the private Dane has very little knowledge about the structure of the Kingdom Community and about the relationship of the Kingdom Community in general. I think it is extremely important that, if you have a community, you feel the pride of the community you have and that you also have a minimum knowledge of each other's systems and ways of life. I'd like to ask you a question. If it were up to the rapporteur to decide what should be taught about the community, what would the rapporteur want, and what would the rapporteur give priority to teaching?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006222421	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006222424	As I replied to the Social Democrat rapporteur just now, it would be quite basic. There are many who have the basic knowledge in order, but too many who do not have the basic knowledge in order language, political, economic and all that. These are basic things: population, cultural and so on. So it's just such basic knowledge. When people have it, they avoid prejudice and then avoid the situation that we had not so many years ago, when the countries went completely and totally wrong with each other. So that is what it is all about, that is to say, the Danish primary school receives basic education about the Kingdom Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006222505	Thank you. Then it's mr. Roger Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006222508	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I have a question about the challenge of brain drain. I had the pleasure of being in the Faroe Islands recently, when I met some very gifted young politicians, Faroes, and they mentioned that there is a problem with brain drain with young people especially to Denmark and especially because of study accommodation in Thorshavn. In Denmark we are working to have a longer derogation in the planning law to set up temporary study accommodation. Is that something you talk about in the Faroe Islands?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006222548	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006222550	The demographic challenge is the main challenge facing the Faroe Islands at all. Like many small places and in other small countries, people are looking for cities, and small places and small countries are losing young people. But it has happened in recent years that the direction has turned, so people go to the Faroe Islands instead of going away from the Faroe Islands. We have had a very large population growth in recent years and there has been very much pressure on the housing market. The biggest challenge for us at the moment is to provide enough housing, which is enormous pressure on the housing market. If there were enough housing there would be moving 500 Faroese cousins to the Faroe Islands tomorrow. But that is the bottleneck that we are sitting in at the moment, so that there is simply no roof over people's heads, so it has been strongly committed to building particularly cheap young people's homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006222640	Sir. Roger Matthisen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006222643	Thank you. I do not know whether the rapporteur is aware of the Danish company which makes temporary study homes of containers. It's a pretty nice concept, I've been inspecting myself and being allowed to shove my feet up out there. The second question is in relation to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, who talks about the fact that it might be interesting to have a Council for Greenlanders in Denmark, both in terms of combating discrimination, but also in terms of raising the level of information on Greenland. Would such advice also be good for the Faroese in Denmark, does the rapporteur think?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006222721	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006222724	I believe that the situation of Greenlanders and Faroese in Denmark is very different. Cows look like Danes, but I think there is a difference between the situation of Faroese and Greenlanders in Denmark. There is also something from the political point of view called the 'rate pool', which is used for socially vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark, but there is no equivalent for Faroese people, as far as I know, there are not the same problems in the case of Faroese.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006222758	Thank you. Then there are no more questions for the rapporteur. And then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006222826	Thank you. And thank you for a really interesting day and a good debate, which started cheerfully and with great respect for this Olsen gang picture that I've been pondering all day if you're able to come back on. And it seems to me to be really, really difficult. But there's one figure that hasn't been pulled out yet, and that's the steak. After all, he's the one with the piste away with him, and then I've looked around the hall and thought that the finance minister is actually the one who, from a quick judgment, is best cast to that role. But it's no good if I'm Egon Olsen, 'cause he's usually the one who's supposed to go away. But maybe it's someone else I don't know. It struck me anyway, since we have discussed the Olsen gang so much and there is such a merry laugh and there is such an intuitive common frame of reference, how it can really be that in June there were so many palavers that a question about the Olsen gang was included in the birth test. Because if you don't know your Olsen gang, maybe you're not Danish anyway. And it's not to start a big debate about what it means to be Danish, because I also know my Hans Christian Andersen In Denmark I was born, there I have home, but I can also my Grundtvig, as 2 years earlier, in 1848, said: "To a people they all hear, as they count themselves there." So it may not be enough just to be born with a red beet passport. But enough about the Olsen gang. I think it has been a very good day, when there has been a quiet and calm tone, and in this way I am delighted that there has been a fairly broad recognition of some of the challenges we face. Mrs Mette Frederiksen first started by acknowledging that Denmark has a growth challenge, a productivity challenge, that for many immigrants are not in work, that we need to develop welfare. And this has actually been followed up by contributions from other rapporteurs. Yes, even Mrs Pernille Skipper admitted that there is probably a limit to how many refugees we can take, although I understood that one million were such, yes, a little high-ranking. But there was a limit. So far along the way, I'm actually left with the impression that in this Parliament there is a common analysis and a common recognition of the challenges we face, both in relation to what makes Denmark a good country, and what we like about Denmark is not too great a difference between high and low, publicly funded welfare, free school access, free access to health care, decent care for the elderly, wealth and prosperity. I'm actually left with that impression. On the basis of this one can only be positive, because then there is just a need for us to move from analysis to action, and that requires a plan, and one of them has the government. And I'm not gonna swing up to say it's brilliant. I should not, in fact, be inclined to claim that it is fulfilling all my own or, for that matter, the wildest ambitions of my party. And why doesn't it? That is because it is an attempt to find a plan that balances idealism with realism. We are, at least for a while, Denmark's government and therefore also have a responsibility to take management. And taking management is also a balance. The shepherd and apologize for the metaphor that just walks in the middle of his flock, doesn't look anywhere. But the shepherd who is going to go too far in front of the flock loses contact. And I guess it's exactly at this balancing point that you have to move things between idealism and realism. We have a plan. It is not brilliant, it does not live out all my innermost ambitions, but it fulfils the conditions for having a plan: first of all, to set a goal, to have a clear destination, to know where you want to go. And this is where we set the goal that we want Denmark to become richer in a 10-year perspective than we would otherwise be, to stay on the verge of our neighbouring countries. And to set such a goal, you have to have an overview, and there I agree with one hundred percent, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll said that there is a very good idea to climb up really high, because then you can get an overview. But at some point you also have to come down again, because if you just sit up there and have the overview, you can enjoy the good view, but you never get near it, you never move. So you have to go back down once you've formed the overview to navigate. It is then the next requirement for a plan, namely that it is not enough that one has such a goal in 2025, but that one also has a precise plan for what it is then for a route one must go to to get there. What specific measures are to be taken along the way, and how is this linked along the way? And this is where the so-called Socialist plan presents a challenge. For the so-called Socialist plan, the great challenge is that it operates with the mere use of the room for manoeuvre that has already been created. And the one place that's a bid to make it bigger is to make it more expensive for the generation to change there you'll find a billion. And then you have a room for manoeuvre which, if you want to live up to your ambition that public consumption should develop by 6 per thousand per year, has been eaten up in the first years up to 2020. That's it. And it is a problem when we also agree on the fact that, as has emerged from today's debate, alongside the ambitions we can have to develop the public sector, we also have some very boundy tasks to deal with. We have the bound task of financing the green transition, which actually enjoys broad support in this Parliament, in a situation where the way in which we have historically financed it and currently finance it, the PSO, has been condemned out of the European Union. There must be another source of funding. And unless you think that's almost what I had to understand from Mrs. Mette Frederiksen that you have to raise taxes, then this green transition has to be financed by being moved into the Finance Act, and there's no money for that. But there's a bottom-up challenge here. There is a bottom-up challenge around SKAT, that is, the organisation SKAT, which the Danes have lost confidence in and in which we across the parties have to assume responsibility for restoring that trust. It will require billions of investments in the organisation SKAT in the coming years. And I guess you have to be very creative if you want to define it as welfare, that is, from a citizen's perspective. I think that when we talk about welfare and increasing public spending in order to make core welfare, the first thing people think about is not that we should hire some more people in the tax administration. I think they're thinking we're gonna hire some nurses, some schoolteachers, some educators. So the money has to be found. It is also a bottom-up task that we have a property assessment system, which has also broken down with incorrect assessments. That needs to be corrected. And if that's going to happen and I'm going to come back to it a little later, in a form where we can make sure that the individual homeowner is safe as we move from the old system to the new system, then it also takes money. So there are a number of challenges on what might be called the short track, which simply means that if you have the ambition that we also have to develop our welfare society, whether it is 5 per thousand per year or 6 per thousand per year, then the money is not enough. Therefore, I am incredibly pleased that this analysis of Denmark's challenges and this one, as I also feel it from the Social Democratic side, and also wider than the one that comes in that we have to solve some bound tasks, is there. But then we must also act on it. That is why we have put forward a plan that is not brilliant, which is not a copy of our own idea-political programme, which is not the liberal millennium, but which is a balanced bid to make Denmark richer and increase our prosperity in a responsible way, so that we can keep up with our neighbouring countries so that we can create a quarter of a million more jobs so that we can ensure that a typical Danish family gets DKK 15,000. more a year and so that we can obtain the billions that I estimate and, as many others also consider, need to be invested in our common welfare, provide the extra billions needed to invest further in our infrastructure, both physical and digital, a plan that also ensures, through an emergency brake, that we can continue to control the flow of refugees and migration. It is, after all, a plan which consists of many elements that we have put forward and which we have had the opportunity to review over the past few weeks with the parties. Yesterday, we then put the last piece on the negotiating table, and now we have the confidence that we can get into a process where real negotiation can take place, with the aim that, first of all, it should pay better to work. Basically, I think that a society is first healthy if you make sure that there is a real benefit from working rather than not. It is an expression of fairness, it creates dynamism, it breeds prosperity and that is why we are proposing to lower the tax on labour. I have an ambition to lower the tax for everyone on the last earned crown for all employees, if we can afford and if possible. We are now taking a big step with what we have proposed by lowering the top tax by 5%. for income up to 1 million. kr., but also by lowering the marginal tax for people who do not pay top tax. For what we are proposing, with job allowances and other means, there are a quarter of a million Danes who do not pay top tax and who get a marginal tax reduction actually of around 7%. So that is the way, if you look at what we have put forward, that for 627,000 Danish employees out of 2.8 million Danish employees we are able to deliver on our ambition. There we are able to deliver a tax reduction on the last earned crown in the region of 5 per cent. It is not a total fulfillment of our ambition, but it is a good start that 627,000 Danish employees out of 2.8 million get the reduction of the tax on the last earned crown. Secondly, we need more jobs. It is basically about creating a growth package that makes it more attractive to make Danish business investments in Denmark, and I would like to sign for those who have signalled an interest in being involved in it. When I listen to the debate and it applies all around, I actually sense an interest in going in here and helping to lift something. I have also noted that the Social Democratic Party has pointed to this as a focal point: how do we ensure that Danish start-ups can access risk capital? How do we ensure that companies that are growing bigger have something to grow? We have a series of bids, others may have other bids, but I really feel that there is an interest in us doing something here to create better framework conditions for our companies. It is also in this context, moreover, that if we can secure the green transition financed by the Finance Act against the full abolition of the PRS tax, it is in fact the one-off biggest growth contribution to Danish industry that we can give at all. Thirdly, there is the ambition of welfare, where the crucial thing here is that we really make sure that we get some free money to invest in welfare. This is where the problem is that we cannot just have such a 2025 objective, because we are not jumping up to 2025 on such a time journey. We're going through 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024 and 2025 before we get there. If we are to have money to invest in welfare in the coming years in this session, in this parliamentary term and at the beginning of the next parliamentary term until 2020, then we need to do something more than just put ourselves on our hands in a figurative sense and enjoy the decisions we have already made. Because if we do not have the courage to make some decisions that ensure that the Danish economy is also linked on the a little longer track, then it is not responsible on the slightly shorter track to spend some more money. It is in this light that we propose that we ask those who were born in 1958 to 1978 to work six months longer for some selected vintages. It solves some long-term problems which allow us to invest something more in our welfare in the short term. That is, of course, what leads, fourthly, to the possibility of allocating something to a pool of competences, and if you want something to do, if you want to reform competence, a reform of skills, then there has to be some money to do with it. That is why we have the opportunity to create a welfare pool for targeted investments in health, care for the elderly, in other core welfare, and that is why we have released resources that can be invested in national security; it is a theme that has also filled a lot today. How do we look after Denmark, that is to say, literally our border, criminals, threats from the east? Fifthly, we need to get our foreign policy under control. After all, we are in the process of slowing down which we have now secured and which means that the figures from growing in 2014 and 2015 are now down to a level that is the lowest we have seen in 5 years. Now we have to hold on because we are in the process of achieving results that release billions, which can be used both in Danish nuclear welfare and which can be used in the vicinity. It is a theme that has also been throughout today. After all, the pressure that created a gap in Europe last year has not disappeared, and of course we have both a responsibility and a self-interest to free up the resources needed to invest in the outlying regions in order to ensure that Europe does not break new ground. That is why I am also pleased that the effects of the policy that we have put in place, with tightening up, with border controls, by making an integration benefit • we are arguing in Europe that Europe should look after its external borders • now bear the fruit that we can move billions invested here at home in, among other things. Danish tent camps into the surrounding areas and that we can get money free for Danish core welfare. We have to hold on to that. Sixthly, then, there is the ambition to train the generation of the future well, but also in a way that ensures that there is funding for it. That is part of the reason why we are proposing an adjustment to the SU so that the amount of the grant is reduced and the loan opportunities improved, both by borrowing a little more, but also by lending on better terms, and not least by giving all young people, whatever training they take, an extra job allowance so that they can gain a foothold in the labour market. This also applies to him or her who takes a vocational training without the SU. This also applies to young people who take a medium-term education where they do not use much SU. They must be deducted so that they can gain a foothold in the labour market. I have to put an end to what has been said many times today, namely that this is going to be used to finance tax cuts. That is simply not correct. The direct savings by redeploying the SU, as we propose, up to 2025, correspond largely to the pool of competences that we have set aside in our plan. It's money from the SU to a free pool of competence. Then there are some behavior effects. When we do what we do with the SU, we assume that young people will be a little faster to finish reading. It means something to the labour supply, and the gains it creates we put off in the reserve for unforeseen events proposed by the government, which means that when we go further towards 2025, whoever is prime minister at that time, there is therefore a child savings and not a bill in the nursery. I have no idea that because I have said this, you will not continue to say that the S.U. is financing tax cuts, but that is just not right. Seventhly, we have not talked much about it today, but I have taken note of what the parties have said outside the Chamber as well. Then we have the common challenge, which many have also signed up to, namely that we must ensure security in old age. This requires us to take very concrete steps to ensure that saving continues to pay off. That is why we are proposing a pension bonus. Because if we don't do it or anything else, if others have other ideas, but money costs us, then we risk moving into a time when too many employees in the years up to pension can no longer pay to save up. It is a task that we must have solved if we are responsible, just as we who are sitting here now have to take the responsibility to ensure that, in the really long run, when we come up with a generation, we avoid having a future elderly proletariat, future pensioners who have not been saved and who will therefore be deeply dependent on whether there is goodwill in this Chamber, or, even if there is, the opportunity in this Chamber to give them an old age which is quite similar to that of the many, many Danes who are now making labour market savings and can therefore retire and maintain a quality of life which is similar to what they had while they were on the labour market. That is why we are proposing a gradual compulsory pension fund built up. Finally, the eighth point I have touched on is the whole question of creating a more accurate property assessment system, bearing in mind that there is still room for confidence in the housing tax. It is also in recognition of the fact that the tax freeze that we ourselves faced in 2001 has proved not to create the necessary security. Taxes have increased by 18 billion. kr. Despite the tax freeze, we are now faced with the challenge plus new assessments, which all other things being equal mean that housing taxes will increase by another 10 billion. kr. or more up to 2040 if we do not allow the old tax freeze to be replaced by a new and improved one. That is what we are proposing, then, by fixing tax rates in 2021, well to mark at a lower level; by ensuring that the tax paid during the ownership period cannot increase by more than the wage trend; and by proposing an agreement that if there is an additional income from housing taxes beyond the assumed level, it should be returned to citizens in the form of relief of tax at work. It is a better tax freeze than what we have, because it cancels increases of 10 billion. kr. This ensures that the home owner can stay in his accommodation for the salary he had when buying the home. It corrects the existing disparities in the taxation of, for example, apartments versus farmhouses, cities versus rural areas, and this will help to stabilise the housing market to a greater extent than we know today. That is why I would just like to say on this point that I am extremely satisfied with the response that the government's initiative yesterday met with in broad terms in the Parliamentary Assembly, and I really hope that it should be possible to reach a broad political agreement that will bring about calm and stability in this important area. And for the vast majority of Danes, buying a home is definitely the biggest investment you make in your life. And too far, the vast majority of Danes, it is not an investment that is made for reasons that are about speculating in price developments. It is, after all, an investment made in creating a framework for family life. That is why, of course, if, in the situation in which you are sitting, you can afford to make that investment, you must also be able to stay in your home, regardless of how prices develop. That's the government's plan. And, as I have said, I am left with the overall impression that, in this way, there is an analysis behind which there is broad agreement and that there are fragments of plans. It should be possible to use this parliamentary collection if you stay in the work clothes and are workable to make agreements that will benefit Denmark and the Danes. Then I would also like to thank our North Atlantic Members for the debate. This has also been a good and substantive debate. I would say to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen that we are aware of the acute challenges facing children in Greenland. We respond positively to the requests for support that we receive. It is Greenland's responsibility, but we are now proposing that we allocate funds in the rate pool to a number of measures that can support the efforts of the self-government for children and young people in Greenland. Both Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and Mrs Aleqa Hammond also mentioned the conditions for socially vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark. We are aware of this and we take it seriously. That is also why we have announced in the government base that we want to improve conditions for socially vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark, and we are, of course, following up on that. I would also like to sign for both Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and Mrs Aleqa Hammond to sign for the involvement of the North Atlantic members in the discussions on the Finance Act. I think it is natural for the Minister of Finance to discuss the North Atlantic perspectives in the Finance Act with the North Atlantic Members of Parliament. Mrs Aleqa Hammond mentioned Camp Century, and to that I would just like to say that the possible future impact of climate change on Greenland impresses me, on the government. This is something we take seriously, and that is also why we are in dialogue with Greenland's Self-Government on the matter and among other things. is examining the possibilities of extending the Danish climate monitoring to the Camp Century area. Then I would say to Mr. Magni Arge and Mr. Sjúrður Skaale, who raised questions about the constitution, that I fully understand this need to have a document that creates identity. I can easily understand that if you are going out to play handball for the Faroe Islands, it must be for Tú alphagra land mítt, mín dýrasta ogn! and not to the Danish national anthem. I understand that perfectly well, and I therefore welcome the fact that Mr. Magni Arge said it shouldn't be a secession document. If it is the starting point that it should not be a secession document, it already follows that it is a document that does not detach the Faroe Islands, and that the Faroe Islands, after that document has been adopted, are also part of the Kingdom Community. And that is why, of course, that document must also be included within the Danish constitution, which is the legal framework of the Kingdom Community. That is why I also hope that this clear statement that it should not be a secession document can be a starting point for us to have an open, clear and transparent process which ensures that the document that is written in the Faroe Islands is precisely a document that can be contained within the legal framework governing the Kingdom Community. I'd like to apologize because it was requested that there were flags in some places with wrong flags on olaiday. I have myself wondered exactly what it is for a person who can stand in the middle of Tórshavn on olaiday, where there are flags in all flag poles, and hoist a flag whose colors are reversed compared to all other flags. Has he been thinking: It is amazing that no one knows what the Faroese flag looks like? Or what could have gone through the head of the person? I don't know. If I am to welcome one thing, it is, of course, that all institutions that bought flags through the state purchasing system got the right flags. The few institutions which used the wrong flags are the institutions which, on the basis of such an impression that they could do things better, were themselves out shopping. And it may inspire the state institutions to make use of the state purchasing system • It is also a more effective way of spending taxpayers' money, because they go further when we buy in together. In addition, as Mr. Sjúrður Skaale also said, say, that this little fad also emphasized what was the whole point of proposing that we had a Faroese and a Greenlandic flag day, namely that we need to know more about each other so much. I have to finish here. I've been around a little bit, and we've been through that all day. As I said, I am left with a feeling that there is actually more gathering than there is separating. I think we have a commitment here relatively soon after the last parliamentary elections to provide responsible solutions. I think that is what our citizens expect from us.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006225930	Thank you. And the first to make a brief comment is Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006225939	Thank you. I really think I can speak on behalf of everyone when I am delighted that after such a long day we are just being taken out in the wild by the Prime Minister. There are trees to be climbed up in, routes to be walked, and incredibly much about some shepherds and probably also a flock of sheep. And with all due respect for the Prime Minister's rhetorical language blossoms, could I not recommend to the Prime Minister that we find the route to the negotiating room and to the negotiating table soon? Because I think that if we are to pick up on today's debate that does not of course apply to everyone, but for many we have actually made quite fine commitments, not least from the main parties, that we want to conclude a broad agreement that will deal with some of the duties that lie ahead of us. The Prime Minister himself mentions a few of them. In addition, there is a desire on the part of several people to support a positive development in the Danish economy, including securing a growth package. So I will refrain from such ordinary polemics, the Prime Minister did almost the same thing, and thus in fact simply urge the Prime Minister to seize the hands that have been stretched out during the day so that we can get into that negotiating table and actually create some results across the board. Wouldn't that be a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006230117	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006230118	Yeah, I think that's a really good idea, and that's the government's ambition, too. That is also why tomorrow there will be a technical review in the Ministry of Taxation which will ensure that everyone gets a complete understanding of the proposal we presented yesterday, which is not simple and uncomplicated, but which has the clear aim here of creating security for the homeowners. In fact, I also used my speech here to acknowledge the reaction of the parties. After all, it has to be clear that, as soon as next week, when the Minister for Finance is back from the IMF in Washington, we will be embarking on the process of negotiation. I note with great satisfaction that, for example, there is an increase in the number of young people in the Community. Exactly around this home play, there's a lot of people interested in it. That seems to me to be an optimistic picture. Then, of course, it has to be embedded in something that is connected. That is the point of what I said before, because it requires that we also have the economy that needs to be created in a responsible way to phase in a new system. But I do agree very much, and that is also why I myself, against my nature, abstained from being unnecessarily polemical in my concluding remarks.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006230244	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006230245	Yes, we could see that the Prime Minister had to make a little effort in terms of the latter, that is to say to avoid it, but so far, so good. Now we agree that we have to get to the negotiating table. Now perhaps I am the one who gives good motives to the Prime Minister, but I can at least say that we in the Social Democratic Party are also hoping for a broad political agreement. Then the Prime Minister puts the premise on the table that there must of course be a responsible financial framework. That goes without saying. We couldn't dream of anything else. So far, so good. I would like to add one more premise, and that is what the Prime Minister actually mentioned in his opening speech this evening, namely that we like a Denmark where there are not too many differences. I agree with the Prime Minister in that respect, but I do not agree with the content of the 2025 plan in this respect. That is why, of course, my request must also be very clear if we agree that we would like to negotiate that it is good for Denmark to have a broad political agreement and that, of course, the economy must be managed. Could we not also agree to pursue the strategy that generations before us have put the seeds into, namely that we do not want a Denmark where the differences are too great and that, therefore, top tax concessions should not, of course, be part of a future agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006230406	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006230408	No, the latter, by its very nature, cannot be agreed, because the top tax concessions proposed by the government contribute so positively to Denmark's continuing cohesion. Because they are simply focused on the people that we need very much on our businesses and that are currently in demand both at home and abroad. In fact, we have had to make a special scheme with a so-called research tax scheme because we recognise that our tax is not attractive enough for people to come. So we have that challenge. You can then come to the researcher tax scheme and be here for five years, and then you leave again. So making a tax relief for people with large incomes, well, which you get, if you are a specialist and a knowledge worker, is one of the things that should help to ensure that our companies get the right workforce and thus create the wealth that Denmark needs. And prosperity is also a prerequisite for welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006230516	The next question is Mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006230520	There has been such a little back and forth today in relation to the issue of Europol. Although it is a late hour and there is also a certain tradition of breaking loose, I still think it is a serious issue that challenges the security of Denmark and the Danes, our ability to combat cross-border crime if nothing happens between now and 1 May 2017, and you just have to pull the plug for European police cooperation for Denmark. That is why I would just like to say that I believe that, when a referendum was held last time, the Danes were promised that, whether we voted yes or no, Denmark would remain in Europol and, if this could not be achieved through a parallel agreement, a new referendum would be held. That is what the parties who recommended a 'no' said. I would therefore just like to ask for an assurance from the Prime Minister, on behalf of the government, that it is also the view that, if a parallel agreement cannot be reached, a new referendum will have to be held. The point is that it is the Danes who have been promised that this is the way it must be done, both by parties who wanted a yes at the time of the referendum, but also by those who wanted a no. That is why it is only fair that, if the parallel agreement envisaged by the Danes cannot be reached, which ensures continued participation in Europol, then we will have an opportunity to deal with it again in a referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006230649	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006230650	I fully share the view that it is important that we remain associated with Europol in a fully operational way and that it is really, indeed, a pity that the referendum came out as it did. But it did, and it must be respected, and that is why we are using our energies to see if it is not possible to create a special agreement, a parallel agreement, which word will now be used to ensure that Danish police can continue to participate operationally. It is not a hope I have given up yet, and that is why I do not want to take up the grief. If you were to do so, I have to say that in my own optics it will be the case that the prerequisite for a new referendum is that you have confidence that it can then be won. And there I think it would require a broader parliamentary support to recommend a 'yes' than what happened in December last year. And there I can only see quite quietly that there are some preconditions that have gone, because if you imagine that a new Danish referendum will have to be based on a protocol other than the one we have negotiated ourselves home, then it simply cannot be done until May next year. That is why I think it has to be said that we are now standing where the most logical outcome is that either an agreement will succeed, what I very much hope and work for, or the Danish police will drift out of cooperation. That is also why the National Police have now taken steps to look at how to organise themselves, if that is what will be the outcome. But that is not hope I am expressing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006230826	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006230828	The agreement we have on the importance of Denmark's continued membership of Europol obviously does not extend to the importance of us also lifting what was agreed when we jointly interpreted the 'no' in the days following the vote. For then there was agreement that the Danes had voted what they had voted, but with the sure assurance that if it were not possible to get such a parallel agreement, we would not have slipped out, but then the Danes would have the opportunity to go to a referendum again. I must therefore say that I find it a little worrying when the Prime Minister says this evening that it is not certain that that promise to the Danes will be respected. One is, of course, that there are some who appeared in the election campaign and thought it was easy to have a parallel agreement that then seemed rather hasty afterwards, and unfortunately this is not because of the possibility of having a parallel agreement, but because of their own promise to support a 'yes' vote in a purely Europol vote. We can only regret this, but the police cannot do anything about it; it is just something we have with each other in this Chamber. And that is why I think it is important to keep to the promise given to the Danes that, if you cannot get a parallel agreement, they will have the opportunity to re-examine it in a referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006230940	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006230942	I cannot recall that I made any promise prior to the referendum on 3 December that you could just vote as you would like, because if you voted no, I would make a new referendum on that I cannot actually recall. I think I can recall that I spent all my energy trying to get the Danes to vote yes, because that is what it took to get us to Europol. Then I also used a lot of energy to say that if you didn't, it would be really, really hard. I have also taken down from the debate at the time that someone else was out saying: 'You can safely vote 'no' because there is another way in. But I can also just say quite quietly that some of what was said at the time is apparently a little different, and I have to take note of that. And I have to say that if the prerequisite for a Danish vote is to recommend a 'yes' to, because some are to enter into judicial cooperation, but not in the case of Schengen, then it simply cannot be done on the protocol on which the referendum is to be held. And then, if you think it was a good idea, I do not think so, but even if you think it would require that we first negotiate a new protocol which would also have to be ratified. That is why it has to be said that, with a deadline called May next year, the situation is that, compared to May next year, either an agreement has been created to ensure that Danish police can participate in Europol operationally, or we are slipping out.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006231115	The next question is Mr. Anders Samuelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006231118	Thank you. This is actually a little motivated by the Socialist President, Mrs Mette Frederiksen's, the focus on equality and concern about the rise in inequality in the Left's plan. I think we should perhaps get the perspectives straight. The Left has a plan, which is probably a fragment, a smaller part of the Liberal Alliance's plan, which will remove the entire top tax, will halve the corporation tax, remove the inheritance tax, remove the registration tax, ease the tax significantly at the bottom. If you implement the whole plan and have a negative growth in the public sector of 1%. A year on public consumption, we in Denmark will still be more equal than we are in Sweden. That's what we're talking about. We will still have a tax burden that is at the level of the Swedes or higher than the Swedes. The aim of what we are going to discuss in the autumn is not to focus on equality or inequality; it is to focus on the Prime Minister that I have understood, and I would like him to confirm this, to create growth in Denmark, to create the framework for prosperity and prosperity, because that is the best social policy we can achieve. Anyone who has visited a company knows that when you meet a company where things are going well, they are willing to open the doors and let more people in, including people who are marginalised. But when you show up at companies where there is no growth, the door is closed, and if it is finally opened, it is to fire people. So it is with Denmark's national economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006231255	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006231256	But I can confirm that the proposal put forward by the government is socially balanced and has a very, very modest effect on what is called the Gini coefficient. I also have to say that we have more than one focus. So I think it is a little important that we now use some energy to promote some balances, because we have more than one consideration to take. I agree very much with what Danske Bank's CEO, Thomas F. Borgen, said in the public debate some time ago that you have to see things in a context and see what effects they have. So he marked one, I think, both intellectually and actually also now I should not overly interpret him as ideologically supportive of the idea that there was no top tax at all, but, I think, made some quite wise observations about what else needs to be done in order for society to be connected. And it's our responsibility to find those balances, and I've given my bid for it. I think what the government has put forward is balanced in every way. We ensure that we can develop the welfare society moderately, but we can do so. This ensures that we ease the taxes, a lot at the top, much at the bottom, most of all for him or her who stands on the edge of the labour market or has not actually mentioned it in the last year, which nominal cards get the absolute biggest win. It also ensures that where we can talk about growth, it is very much down in the room that is about how we ensure that people can, I would have liked to say, get tax relief if they use them to invest in Danish companies. This is all about investor deductions, another form of share taxation, a new stock culture. And I think it has to be said that if it is creating growth that is in focus, then the effects are there So things have to be balanced. And I understand that the balances look different depending on the starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006231513	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006231515	Of course there must be a balance in this, and there is, it must be said, if, even after having implemented something more ambitious than what the Liberal Alliance is proposing, we are still more equal than the Swedes. So, isn't it also having that balance in place? Yes, it is. If you had to learn from what Danske Bank's director was talking about, what did he really say? What he said was that as politicians we should remember to speak and explain why we are doing it. So, don't talk in the direction of and with envy rhetoric, but try to explain that if we grab the tools that work best at promoting growth, it is something that rubs off on everyone. Perhaps we should start to spend more energy explaining why, when we tackle the tool called top tax, which is so spoiled, just as the registration fee was the last year, we have confirmed today that the Socialists do not intend to change the reduction that we had implemented • it is in fact to do something good, namely to create growth, and there is no more effective means for it than the top tax. Can't the Prime Minister confirm that's what the economists are saying?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006231629	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006231630	Well, I'm not an economist myself. I am a lawyer, but above all I am a man of opinion and a politician, and I feel that I am responsible for proposing things that balance different considerations. That is also why I said very frankly to a start that the plan I have put forward does not meet my own innermost, wildest ambitions about what I would like to do about Denmark. It doesn't. It is a bid to draw the country in a right direction, and it is balanced on the basis of some considerations that cannot be avoided, if you want something to move something in reality: what the parliamentary landscape looks like, that is, what the world we find ourselves in. What can be done? How far can you draw your ambitions if you want something done? These are the considerations I have made. And then the government is fully prepared to negotiate with everyone and is fully aware that some will intuitively have an ambition to pull the government in one direction and in the other direction. We are drawn from both sides: some think that public spending, as we propose, is too low, some think it is too high; some think that our tax cuts are too small, some think they are too large, and that is how you can go through all the way around, and then you can see that where the government stands is what constitutes some balance position. That is why we want to negotiate, of course based on respect that what we then agree on is what we agree on.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006231814	The next question is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006231818	Thank you. I think it's great that the Prime Minister has philosophed a little over this with that tree and the thing about climbing up, and whether you can come down again, and all that. I just got such a thought that it may well be that you've climbed up that tree at a time when it seemed like summer lasted all year, then you've been sitting there warmly and well, but at some point it's windy and autumn and wintertime maybe. Then, of course, you can have the hope that there are some who start to freeze so much up in that tree that they start to crawl down to the rest of us so a little more perhaps at electoral height, at the level of the Danes concerned. But the thing is, if that doesn't happen, we will have to take stock of it at some point. Then we also have to make some policy as responsible parties, so that the Danes can see that things are not just going to stand up because everyone is looking at that silly tree out there somewhere, and then we have to do some politics together. In particular, the matter of housing taxation, I think it is obvious that we should sit down and find a plan for this. Because once you open up this discussion, there are a lot of Danes looking at this and thinking: What are my terms really going to be in the future? And if you're thinking about buying next week, do you have to buy next week? So it is, of course, a matter of putting us together and finding a solution to it, and at least then I made a call in my rapporteur's speech earlier today to invite those parties that are seriously going to bid for such a majority in this Parliament. And then that tree must be out there, and then we'll see what happens to that tree, but the rest of us just can't wait for it to be clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006232002	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006232004	I therefore agree that something needs to be done. And so will it. Well, the first condition for something to happen is that people mean something. The government means something. Without even being polemical about it, one can say that the government has presented a coherent, balanced approach to all the issues we face. It's a little harder if you look all the way around the room to see how it's matched. There are some sketches, some negotiating papers, and that is fine, and then an interest has been marked. Now we have the opening debate, just as we usually have it, and then there is a process of negotiation, just as usual, about the Finance Act and with a deadline, just as we usually have someone who is called something by early or mid-November. And it is within that framework that something must now happen. I have noted that the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party and the Radical Left, and then I do not think I have concluded incorrectly that I have marked a positive attitude towards the government's housing policy. When I listened to the speech by the President of the SF when I listened to Mr Enhedslisten's speech when I listened to the alternative's speech on housing taxation, I could not really see that there was such a great deal of perspective in it. So there are some parties that have marked an interest here, and that is a natural starting point for trying to find a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006232135	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006232136	That's exactly what it is. And I guess you'll just have to say that now it's so fine a general plan and then even for a stronger Denmark. Of course you can only stay in a good mood, but you'll have to say that it's been seen before that a government has presented such a one, we should call it a medium-term projection of the Danish economy based on some assumptions that have not, of course, formed the basis for a real political agreement on how a majority together now sees the development of Denmark for the next 10 years. But that has been the government's bid and then a few things have been taken out of the plan that political parties then agreed on. It is therefore entirely in the natural extension of the fact that you try to make an agreement on such a big lump as a housing tax system and show the Danes that this Parliament can enter into character and make an agreement that provides security for the property owners. And it is true, as the Prime Minister says, that if you have a deadline hanging out there to some extent or other, it is usually called the Finance Act and similar in mid-November. It's time to get started. And at least we're ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006232239	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006232240	Well, yes and no. For what has slightly surprised us with the plan we have put forward here is that the parties have not, after all, shown their support for the objectives of the plan. That's what distinguishes this plan at this stage at least from the 2010 plan and the 2015 plan and the 2020 plan. For there has been the fact that the party that sat in opposition and had an ambition to get the Prime Minister's post, just as it has agreed on the objective. So what are we going to achieve, what is the level of ambition we have? Then, like the government, it could be one government or another government that this plan, with the level of ambition that one has, to create room for manoeuvre, is supported. And then you can then, responsibly, start spending money within that space, knowing that there really is support for a room for manoeuvre. But that's what's different here. Well, I can't think of any past example where there hasn't been a buyin on the ambition. The Social Democratic Party has not, at least not, as I have taken down the well-being objective for 2025. That is why the challenge is that in the first years up to 2020 there will be very, very little room for manoeuvre if you choose the social democratic philosophy of around 12 billion. kr. kr. That is why it has its limit, how much you can sit and solve some shelling tasks and spend all the money, if you have no clarity at all as to whether someone will subsequently help to get the more money that also needs to be spent. That's what makes this situation a little bit difficult. Having said that, I fully agree that those who report an interest should be taken seriously. I have an ambition for broad agreements and we must get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006232427	The next question is Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006232432	Thank you. A few months ago, in the middle of the summer holiday in reality, it emerged that the government has withheld significant information for the Folketing and the public on the agricultural package. In notes addressed to the government's most powerful ministers, the Prime Minister himself, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Taxation and the Minister of Business and Growth, the officials have warned the government both about the controversial calculation method in the environmental accounts of the agricultural package, which Danish experts have avoided, and that the package may be contrary to international environmental rules because it increases the pollution of our drinking water and our water environment. In the notes addressed to the Folketing on exactly the same subject, key words have been removed, warnings have been toned down and things have been rewritten. My question is quite simple: has the Prime Minister been aware that key warnings have been withheld for the Folketing? Has the Prime Minister been informed that among other things? on the part of the Prime Minister's Office in connection with public access to documents has obscured the documents to such an extent that both the Public Service Act and the Environmental Information Act have been broken?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006232600	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006232602	I do not at all share the description of the way in which the government has informed the Folketing, and since I do not share the dedication to the question, it does not really make any sense to answer yes or no to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006232617	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006232619	Now, in this case, there is not so much to discuss because all the documents have been made available. We can see exactly what words have been removed, exactly what rewordings have been made of key notes, and exactly what has been darkened. So I would like to ask again: has the Prime Minister been aware that key warnings have been deleted in the documents that have been sent to the Folketing and that the whole process has been blurred in violation of the Environmental Information Act and the Public Service Act? yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006232702	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006232703	I do not agree with that description at all, and therefore it makes no sense to ask whether I am aware that something has been blurred and something has been detained, because I do not agree with that description at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006232715	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006232719	Wow, I'll try to follow that up. Thank you to the Prime Minister for this review of the day, thank you for fabulizing over trees. Perhaps we were going to plant some more boats so that there is something to play in for the parliamentary politicians or crawl up and look at the view from, but also to absorb some of the increased CO2 2 So when you make a ten-year plan, the whole plan has been called, when is it you think the climate into it? Because we have obligations, and I also heard the Prime Minister say that there were some ambitions. But when will the plan be drawn up to meet the agreements and targets: the EU's reduction targets, the 2030 targets, and so on? Is it not until 2025 that we set up a five-year plan, or when is it going to start? 'Cause I kind of think it's missing here. We can see that CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20161006232828	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006232829	But I am also a supporter of afforestation and untouched forest and something like that, although, of course, if there is the traffic of people climbing up the trees, you can discuss how wise it is to plant more, because in the end you cannot see the forest for just trees. But otherwise, I kind of agree. After all, we have a goal to become fossil independent by 2050. We have taken some steps with an energy agreement made back in 2012, we are completely on track. Now, moreover, we are also proposing a completely new financing of the green conversion, which will make electricity cheaper and therefore also via the market, as well as drive some demand towards electricity. And that can happen ~ It also applies to the CO2 i.e., now I can see in the newspapers that there is some talk about a big new data center on Funen. I'm not going to go deeper into that. But if that happens and there are some who say that it will increase electricity demand by so much and so much then one can of course choose to say that it is not so good because it will have some secondary effect. You can also choose to say that it is actually quite fantastic. Because if there can be a company that consumes a lot of electricity and places itself in Denmark, where we produce our power much more sustainably than elsewhere, then it is good for the world and good for Europe. It is far better for it to be placed here than for it to be placed in Poland and run on coal power. By the way, we have a quota system that allows us to ensure that global challenges are met at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006233007	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006233008	But what I simply do not understand is that they say that they have made an overall plan. Well, it's not brilliant, and it's not exactly the Prime Minister's dream picture, but I just don't understand why you don't take this into account. It is now known specifically from the Minister for Climate Affairs that among other things. This plan helps increase CO2 Up to 2025 you don't have a plan to handle it, and it has nothing to do with Facebook. I'm just asking, why aren't these things in this plan when we know it's a bottom job? We may be able to wait until 2025, but we know that the longer we wait, the more expensive it becomes, so why not seize the opportunity and think it into this not brilliant overall plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006233056	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006233057	Thus, Denmark complies with its obligations, including the new obligations we undertake through the Paris Agreement. That is our ambition and it will happen. I've heard that sir. Rasmus Nordqvist has said several times in the course of the debate that all possible targets commit us, including the new sustainability targets, and that we now have to move forward. I just have to say that Denmark is no. 2 in the world on target fulfillment when we talk about the new sustainability goals • no. 2. So, there is one country in the world that is closer to meeting the new sustainability targets than Denmark. Does it create an obligation to act? Yes, it does. But in a Danish context it is primarily an obligation to act in the world. That is also why the new policy strategy for developing countries, which will come, will come up with concrete proposals for how, among other things, we can do something about it. can support the new UN objectives. But it is primarily a challenge to help the world achieve some goals, rather than that it is a question of Denmark having to change Denmark to reach out for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006233205	The next question is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006233209	I agree with the government that we need to look at growth and productivity and what makes Denmark stronger. So the Prime Minister also says that he will continue the green transition, and that is why I just have to ask: what are the elements of this plan for 2025 that are continuing the green transition? The Climate Council, which has rained it through, and it is the Government's Climate Council that says that by 2020 we have a reduction in CO2 If the 2025 plan had not arrived, we would have reached 40%. In other words, we are going to fall in proportion to what we are going to contribute. For the first time in 25 years, we increase our CO2 in Denmark. Then the Prime Minister says to Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist that we comply with the Paris Agreement. Is the Prime Minister aware that the Paris Agreement says "no backsliding"? I'm sorry, but it's in English. And that means that we must not go back on what we have signed up for in Paris. We signed in with 37 percent. in Paris. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that, now that we are falling due to the 2025 plan, we are going in the wrong direction in relation to the objective to which we have committed ourselves in Paris?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006233322	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006233323	So, basically, this is about the fact that, under the auspices of the European Union, we must jointly meet some international commitments, and there is also a great deal of discussion about burden sharing between the countries of the European Union. I will therefore insist that Denmark is a green leader nation.We are We have a VE share that is at the top of what we also assumed when we made the energy agreement in 2012. And now we have to continue this, and we have to do this in a realistic and balanced way. That is why, among other things, we are here today. have indicated that we would like to enter into discussions on making the green bill manageable on the Finance Act, and we are discussing further offshore wind farms in the long term, in other words beyond those we have planned. We are completely open to that. It just needs to be done in a form where the costs associated with it, so to speak, can be massaged into our budgets so that it can be paid.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006233430	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006233431	If there is something that really pays off, then it is the coastal mills that we have jointly agreed back in 2012 and committed ourselves to, both the Left and several other parties here in the Folketing. These are the cheapest mills that have been offered at all. That's an amazing guess that Vattenfall has made. And although I have heard several Left Ministers say that these are the ugliest mills in the world and that they are almost on the beach, the mills are from over 4.5 km and up to 10 km out in the water, and it will sometimes require a binocular to spot them. And then they're the cheapest. It will be almost as cheap energy as from mills on land, and therefore it must be the case that if we are to deliver on what the Prime Minister has just said, that is that we are not going back in relation to the Paris agreement and that we are not doing backsliding, then the Prime Minister has also just committed himself to the coastal mills, otherwise it is not possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006233528	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006233529	But it is absolutely right that we have agreed a number of things in the energy agreement. It is just as true that the conditions on which we agreed on this have gone. Well, I'm just gonna make that clear. For the whole energy agreement is based on the fact that we are funding it here via the PSO, and now we have the challenge that the Commission does not regard the Danish PSO as legally enforceable in the EU legal sense. And if you are to keep an agreement, you also have to keep the terms of the agreement, and we have therefore built an agreement on something that cannot be financed in the way we had planned it, and that is why we need to look at it again. I also welcome the fact that this offer has become cheaper, but so it is still the case that we have a bill in relation to what we assumed in 2012. Now we have given our bid for it, and then others must give their bid for it. I have taken it down from the debate here today that the Social Democrats are thinking that we need to increase taxes to finance this. I'm not much for that. We have thus seen the ambition that the bill for the green transition be massaged into our financial law, so to speak. That also means that there is room for it. And there is the connection with the other thing we have talked about here tonight, that if you have a little courage to make decisions that increase the room for manoeuvre, then there is also a little more room for a big green bill than if you do not have it. And with the room for manoeuvre we have in such a 2020 perspective, if we do not make new decisions, there is therefore no room for both to allow the public sector to grow by 5° or 6° and then solve these chores and then handle a bigger green bill. Things have to be balanced. Having said that, we are, of course, involved in a responsible discussion with the parties that want it. We have the ambition that the green transition that has been made in Denmark under changing governments, whether it has been conservatively led governments, left-wing governments or Socialist-led governments, and we have, as such, had the government position for a number of years over the last 30-35 years to continue. It's an ambition I have.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006233743	The next question is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006233747	Thank you very much, and many thanks to the Prime Minister for his comments to the North Atlantic Members. I would also like to sign that the areas for which Inuit Ataqatigiit has fought are reflected in the government's plans in the coming years, with a focus on children and young people in Greenland and Greenlanders in Denmark. Then I would like to ask you about the pool of rates negotiations, because the Prime Minister mentions that it is fair that the North Atlantic mandates take part in the financial law negotiations, and that is a good thing. But where is the difference between other specific negotiations, for example? the investment pool negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006233827	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006233829	It is, of course, the case that the wage-pool negotiations are based on the agreement of some parties in the Folketing, who have taken a historic legislative responsibility for making a certain rate regulation and therefore have, it can be said, the right to share that revenue. There is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's party and the mandate on which Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen is sitting, not included in that conciliation, which is perhaps understandable enough, as it is all about how we regulate transfers in Denmark and not in Greenland. So it's the way it is. That is why I still think it may be natural for the ministers who participate in the pool of rates negotiations and who have resorts, where activities are typically financed through the pool of rates, to be in good and close, and I also hope in trusting dialogue among others. with Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, so Greenland's wishes can also be drawn down and included in the debate. But it must be the case that those who make the pool agreement are the parties that bear this agreement between each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006233942	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006233945	Thank you very much. After all, Greenlanders in Denmark vote for Danish MPs, but historically there has also been a focus from the North Atlantic members on the Greenlanders or the Faroe Islands, as there are in Denmark, and therefore I still think it makes very good sense to take part in these specific negotiations. In relation to SU deteriorations, I would like to ask whether there is openness on the part of the government to find a solution for Greenlandic students in Denmark if it is a wish of Naalakersuisut.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006234020	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006234021	Well, I am always open to discussing, and my ministers are open to discussing particular Greenlandic angles, including Danish domestic affairs. Of course we are. After all, it remains to have discussions in the circle of Danish parties here in the Danish Parliament on how to shape a future SU system, which, incidentally, in the drain proposed by the government is changes to our SU system, which will enter into force in a few years' time, because we fully respect the conciliation that applies. And since I predict that it can be very, very difficult to change the SU with the entire width behind the existing SU system, this is a problem that is not just around the corner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006234118	The next question is Mr. Nicolai Wammen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006234123	Thank you. It is said that a week can be a long time in politics. After all, it is thought-provoking that only in the context of the financial law debate was the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Jacob Jensen, out of saying that the government's plan was nothing short of brilliant. It was compared to when Svend Gehrs during the Mexico World Cup on Michael Laudrup said it didn't get any bigger. It had to be understood that the Prime Minister and Michael Laudrup were in the same league. Today the Prime Minister has come a little more down in natural size, and it has to be said that it is more such a Jesper Olsen return discussion that we have here. That is why I would just like to ask the Prime Minister in all silence: what has happened since the rapporteur of the Left could call the plan brilliant so recently, and that today the Prime Minister is saying that no brilliant plan is it? Is it an expression of a sudden rise, albeit dressable, humility, or has something happened that has so changed the government's view of it? And could the Prime Minister at the same time also say what is the innermost dream of the Prime Minister? We also understand tonight that what you have put forward is not really what you want most. So a retirement age extended by 1⁄2 years and a pruning of the SU is only a first step on the way, but could we not hear what has changed since Jacob Jensen thought it was so brilliant that today the Prime Minister says it is not?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006234254	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006234255	The question is such that the Danes get tired of hearing people like us discussing each other. Because there is no content in it. It makes no sense for us to have a discussion about whether I have a higher level of ambition before using the word brilliantly than a rapporteur has. It's empty. They're just words. It doesn't matter. That's talk. Well, that would be much more interesting if Mr. Nicolai Wammen wanted to say something about the brilliant ambitions of Social Democracy. It is now weeks since we have presented this plan, which has set a precise target for 2025 for how much we need to increase growth and prosperity and thus create the conditions for developing our welfare society, and to date the Social Democracy has been silent. And then we have to talk about what words we use. People get tired of listening to it. At least I can speak on my own behalf.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006234409	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006234410	I think it is obvious to everyone here that the Prime Minister did not appreciate me reminding you of what the Prime Minister's own rapporteur called the plan a short time ago. It is quite all right for the Prime Minister to get upset here, but in reality it is actually an expression of what I think many Danes thought, when the plan was put forward, that this was really something that would move Denmark in the direction that the Prime Minister expressed that there would be both tax cuts for everyone and welfare for everyone. But then you have seen the reverse of the medal, namely higher retirement age and cutting the SU. As Mrs Mette Frederiksen's speech and speech this evening has also made clear, the social democracy has come up with our idea of how we can move Denmark forward. We would very much like to discuss this with the Prime Minister, and once blood pressure has lowered, I hope we can meet in the negotiating room.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006234508	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006234509	Well, I'm very pleased about that, too. The problem with what has been put forward by Mr. Nicolai Wammen's party is that it doesn't add up. That's the problem. It doesn't add up. There are ambitions for public consumption to increase by 0.6%. There is no room for this year if, at the same time, the other tasks that we have talked about here today are to be solved. That's just the way it is. This has been confirmed most recently by the reply given by the Ministry of Finance today. That is why I think the Social Democratic Party owes some answers. Now, for example, there is much of the debate today. was about the ceiling on cash benefits. There is even a proposal for adoption, there are two proposals for adoption, so much for the coherence of the so-called red block, and there is a reason why there are two, because one is very precise as regards the roll-back of the cash aid ceiling, and the other is fluffy. It's like the question before, it's politics. When you look down into the Social Democratic plan, it turns out that there is no afford to remove the ceiling on cash benefits. There's not a crown set off. No money has been set aside to remove the benefits of integration. There is no money set aside for both these duties and then an ambition to increase public spending. That's just the way it is. And you can be a little sad about that. But let us not shake the fact that, if this is just the starting point for the negotiations, one can hope that the negotiations can lead to the improvement of the level of ambition of the Social Democrats along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006234642	The next question is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006234644	A great deal of today's debate has, of course, been about us wanting to create more growth in our society, not least because we would like to have more jobs. So what is really the big question is how we do it. On the one hand, is there the way to give top tax relief and then has some idea that it should create some kind of dynamic or momentum in growth • or what? I don't think there's any indication of how it's actually going to help, but apparently some people think it's gonna do that. The other way one can choose to go, and that is the way we have pointed out, is that we want to upgrade the Danish workforce and want to create green conversion. If we look at what has happened over the last few months, and I would ask the Prime Minister to confirm this, we can see that 6 000 jobs have been slaughtered in coastal mills. And no later than today, we have heard that there are another 1,000 jobs in the Maabjerg plant that do not start production of bio-ethanol. The latter is such a relatively new event that I would ask the Prime Minister to confirm the figures. And then I would like to ask the Prime Minister to tell us about the thing, what is going to be done about growth in practice if we do not lose the next thousand jobs on the green transition, because the government does not take its hands out of its pockets.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006234807	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006234808	What we have to do in practice in order to create growth is to adopt as soon as possible the plan put forward by the government. Because the question should be turned to Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil. There is, of course, zero growth in the outline that has been put forward. How do you create growth? This is done both by ensuring that there are more hands working in the labour market, i.e. that there is a greater supply of labour and more people taking away and by increasing productivity. And it's not a either-or, it's a boat-and. I fully admit that the part that is about increasing productivity, among other things. It's about upskilling. This is precisely why the government has made a tripartite agreement, others before us failed to manage where we take care of this and train people on unemployment benefits and ensure that there are internships for young people who are going to receive vocational training. We have a very clear agreement with the social partners that when we meet again after collective bargaining, we must address the third issue, which is about upgrading the workforce already in employment. This can help to increase productivity. We therefore have a number of proposals to increase the supply of labour, and these are the things that together create growth and increase gross domestic product, and 65 billion. kr. is the exact number in 2025. How much was it in the Social Democrat plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006234941	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006234943	The Prime Minister failed with both legs after standing and making some tirade up on the big violins about what people get tired of listening to. I think that if I am going to make a diagnosis of what people are getting tired of listening to, then it is ministers who are not answering the questions. In fact, I asked relatively clearly: can the Prime Minister confirm that 6 000 jobs are being lost, that the government will slaughter the coastal mills, and that there will be a further thousand jobs if nothing is done in connection with the Maabjerg plant, which is the last thing we have heard today? It is actually a relatively simple question. Then you can stand with everything on the violins about how to create growth on big things. Here we have concrete Danish industrial jobs within some of what over the past decade has been boomed and today is one of the largest growth areas in Denmark. And then the Prime Minister will not answer the very specific question whether the prime minister can confirm that there are 6 000 jobs in one place and 1 000 jobs elsewhere. It is by God in heaven not jobs that are located in the City Hall Square in Copenhagen. It's even an outskirts strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006235044	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006235045	It's just a little simplistic. Because the big question is how many jobs smoke or vice versa can be created if we deal with this PSO issue. Because that's the second part of that coin, that is, that we've put a PRS burden on Danish companies, which makes them lagging behind in competition with other countries. And so there are jobs that have not been created. That's why we need to solve it. If it is very important for the Social Democratic Party to ensure that the coastal mills continue to be built, even if we cannot actually afford it, because the PSO has fallen apart, then it claims. But it simply obliges us to make some suggestions as to how it is to be paid. It has to be paid, and what exactly are some tax increases that Mrs Mette Frederiksen announced earlier today? What is the scope of them? Come and propose it, and then we shall try to calculate how many jobs it creates to propose that the tax should be increased when Denmark needs the opposite. I mean, things have to be together.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006235151	The next question is Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006235153	Thank you. I had actually thought, and especially after the Prime Minister's speech, that I would give a little something back on that svada about growth and jobs, because it is repeatedly mentioned that the biggest tax relief goes to the lowest incomes. Fortunately, it has been revealed that it is not the truth. However, I cannot help but return to what my colleague, Mrs Reumert Gjerding, asked me about. It's been a while, but I think the PM will remember. It is about the agricultural package that is making our drinking water and the aquatic environment a mess. The Prime Minister answered the question in this way by saying that there was a premise that was not bought. That is why I would like to see whether I can say all the superfluous words from here. There were two versions of some documents. One went to the Folketing. Was the Prime Minister aware that words had been removed and changed in the documents addressed to the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006235300	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006235301	I do not know exactly what documents are referred to. If the question arises as to whether a government has an obligation to transmit all documents which form part of the government's internal processes, then I would say that such an obligation does not exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006235317	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006235318	I can say that the Prime Minister has more time to answer the question here the second time. Some warnings were given about what the agricultural package would have to do with the aquatic environment and drinking water. There were two versions of some of the documents. A version that went to the Folketing had changed that we know; it is fact; it is not a premise; it is the facts and words had been removed. So I'm just trying again: Was the Prime Minister aware that there was a change and removal of words in the documents before they went to the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006235401	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006235402	Well, now I don't know exactly what two documents are being spoken about. I'll tell you what. I can only say that I do not share any view that the government should not loyally promote the legislative process. I simply do not, and that is probably what I can say about it. I cannot stand here and relate to some documents where the reference is that there are two documents. I guess there's more. It's not like we're missing paper in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006235432	The next question is Mr. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006235436	Thank you. I think we started in a good mood from the PM's side, but at least there are other buns on the soup. I would like to ask the Prime Minister about the Train Fund DK, a project that I personally care about, and very many other Danish train travellers do. For we heard in today's debate the chairman of the Danish People's Party confirm that yes, there is a conciliation, a large and broad majority in the Danish Parliament supports the Train Fund DK, and we have met again after the election it was without the government, and it is rather strange that the government has not chosen to join the train fund and has taken stock of the financial situation. We have met to do a phase one in the Train Fund DK, where it is said that the money the government itself says is in the Train Fund DK, we will then propose to be translated into 2020. I have to ask: is the government even aware that the conciliation has taken place and the government has decided not to enter the conciliation circle, which has a majority here after the elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006235543	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006235544	Yes, of course the government is aware of it. I guess that's the whole population. It's come to our ears, too. After all, we are not in that agreement and we have put forward a financial bill, and if you want the sums to be included in the financial law to be adopted, you have to take care of it in the further process. The challenge is that, after my best memory, I guess it's missing and I can hit it in a few billion minutes. A few billion are missing by 2020 compared to what is on the table now and what we have put forward. So it must, of course, be followed up by suggesting what it is that should be tampered with, that is, what we should not make of what is in the plans or have some proposals on where the money should come from. That's why we're back in the conversation from before. The situation is that this country does not have investment money to do more than what we have already decided, unless we get some more. That is why we have put forward a plan worth 27 billion. kr. more for infrastructure investment, and where Social Democracy gives 0 kr., i.e. 0 kr. It has to be taken with you when you go around the country and say that here we think there should be a road, and here there should be a roundabout, and here there should be what I know the money should be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006235705	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006235706	After all, I have had the pleasure of being a minister in this area myself, and I have had the pleasure of seeing the Prime Minister's party colleagues travel around Denmark and promise roads and roundabouts, and there I have to promise that roads and roundabouts were promised throughout Denmark. I think the Prime Minister is having a hard time finding examples of opposition parties doing so now and here. But when the Prime Minister says that after his best memory there was 2 billion missing. I think he is simply wrong and that he will quote the wrong answer, which the Minister for Finance personally did not receive from the Minister for Finance. It is true that there were 2 billion in it. kr. Finance Ministry 3 on the draft Finance Bill, i.e. this phase one, and on what it would mean for public finances by 2020. That's not 2 billion. kr. That's 260 million. kr. So we're down to one tenth of the amount. That's not 2 billion. kr. It is interesting that the Prime Minister now has to choose: is it the Ministry of Finance's?
ParlaMint-DK_20161006235823	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006235824	I think that's what's missing in 2017. Well, I don't have to go out in a numbers match based on memory, even though it doesn't usually really fail here. I am quite sure that we are talking about a figure in the order of a few billion in 2020 perspective. And whether the number is a little larger or less, the money has to be there before it can be used. I can confirm, moreover, that there are certainly plenty of Liberals who have been around the country and have said that it would be very good if some infrastructure investments could be made in addition to what is already planned. That is why we now come up with a plan to make it possible. But it's fine if there hasn't been a single social democrat around. If the Social Democratic Party has just decided to say that what we have already decided on super hospitals and shines, and what it is, and then Denmark should not think of making more infrastructure investments up to 2025, then that is fine, because then there is no more money missing either. We just have an ambition that is greater than that, and that is why we have taken responsibility for putting forward a plan that allows investments to be increased by 27 billion. kr. This contrasts with the Social Democracy sketch where the figure is 0.
ParlaMint-DK_20161006235941	The last question in this case will be Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161007235948	Thank you. It's an honor to be allowed to finish after a long day here. The plan, which the Prime Minister refers to as not brilliant or brilliant, does not seem to me to have the same attitude in this context. What puzzles me so much about economic growth is that the Prime Minister keeps economic growth up with our neighbouring countries, in other words how things are going with Sweden, how things are going with Germany and so on. I was also called by 24seven myself and asked if I did not think it appropriate that we should, of course, grow as our neighbouring countries do. And yes, it's simple and easy answers, of course we have to. But what just puzzles me is that the government does not think what it is going to do in order for us to continue to be a pioneering country in the environmental field too, that is, we dare to think long-term, because it is necessary that we invest in order to be able to be that step forward all the time. If we only measure up to how things are going with our neighbouring countries, then it's not the big thoughts that come out of this Parliament, and I think that's too bad, because we have the potential for more. We are an infinitely skilled nation, we have super competences, we could drive it much beyond the ambitions of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161007000108	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161007000110	I therefore agree that we are a good nation and that we have great potential, that we must unfold this and that it is not just about having a growth target measured against other countries. That's one of them. That is also why we are proposing to give companies greater deductions when they increase their research and development costs, because something more innovation needs to be created out there, and we would like to encourage that. When I still think it's relevant to make that comparison, it's because I think that our sense of self is so linked to whether we're still a rich, prosperous country at the level of others. That's what's at stake. In other words, when we haven't gotten richer for 10 years and the Swedes have become richer and the Germans have become richer, we have to do something to change that picture, because otherwise there will be one on this platform in 30 years' time. I don't know what to do, and I have to answer a lot of critical questions about how it can be when you have developed that new cancer medicine that has been put into use at Karolinska University Sjukhuset, that we can't afford it in Denmark. Then it is possible that there is a Minister of Health who can stand here in 30 years' time and get away with saying that it was then because back in 2016 you didn't really get the course changed. That's what this is all about. It is basically about whether a Danish family can mirror itself in a corresponding Swedish family and have a consumption that matches theirs, and whether we can develop the public sector in a way that matches what we see around us. There I have an ambition on behalf of this country... that's what I was trying to make a great deal of last Tuesday about us continuing to be among the richest countries in the world. We're gonna be a pioneering country. And it is also about money and purchasing power both within the individual family and when we pool purchasing power and act as a collective. It's about both.
ParlaMint-DK_20161007000306	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161007000309	Thank you. The only thing that's fine is that we're not gonna be a pioneering country of this. In other words, when we were doing a free primary school, a free health service, good care for the elderly, etc., we could only do so because we invested and we invested in our future. And now there have been a number of questioners in this Chamber today who have confronted the Prime Minister with the fact that we have relaxed our climate ambitions. My claim will also be that we are relaxing our ambitions in terms of equality. This is the wrong way to go in relation to developing Denmark. We will be seriously abandoned if we do not still aim to be a pioneer country that dares to invest in rethinking and innovation. And we're not doing that with this plan, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161007000353	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161007000356	I welcome the addition that was made, in other words, that it is in the opinion of the honourable Member. And we have to split up according to opinion. Well, you have to have something to invest in order to invest. That is just like the basic premise. You have to have something to invest for. And I can spot a number of places where this country has to invest more over time. Now we talked about infrastructure just now, and if we are to switch to a digital future, we must probably make more digital investments. I also believe that we need to make more physical infrastructure investments in order to stay on track with others. But the money has to be there first. Well, I am very sorry that this is the last question, and I guess I can't break the mood; at least I can't change it much here in the last answer.But the boring context is that the money has to be there before you can use it. And that is where we can choose two philosophies. Either one can say that we do not have to make any more political decisions, that is to say that we have to take down what has been decided over the last ten years, and then we have to sit around in the relatively small room for manoeuvre it gives for the next four years. It's gonna suck making finance laws every year, it's gonna suck. Every time you want to do something new and spend $1, you have to save 2 somewhere else. Or, as it were, should we not try to make some decisions with a simultaneous effect that will enable us to do something more? And that's more like a lot of things. It is also to give the homeless a social card so that they can work there from the edge of the labour market, and that is to give companies an extra deduction if they invest more in research next year than they did this year. Well, that's a lot of things at once. But it's all on this completely boring premise that the money has to be there first. And the government has put forward a bid for that. It is difficult to get other bids out, but we are looking forward to starting this parliamentary year and embarking on some negotiations which could lead to the adoption by Christmas of a Finance Act and hopefully some parallel agreements on continuing green conversion financed in a sustainable way, a job reform that will ensure that work is worthwhile, and a new housing taxation system that will provide security for homeowners. That is the hope I have, and I take that with me from the debate here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161007000619	As I said, there will be no more questions in this round. That is why we thank the Prime Minister. Then I shall ask, for the sake of good order, if anyone wishes to speak for the second round. As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20161007000641	There are three proposals for adoption. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 2 by Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen (V), Mr Ellemann-Jensen (V), Mr Ellemann-Jensen (V), Mr Ellemann-Jensen (V), Mr Ellemann-Jensen (V), Mr Ellemann-Jensen (V), Mr Ellemann-Jensen (V), Mr Ellemann-Jensen (V), Mr Ellemann-Jensen (V), Mr Ellemann-Jensen (V), Mr Ellemann-Jensen (V), Mr Ellemann-Jensen (V), Mr Ellemann-Jensen (V), Mr Ellemann-Jensen (V), Mr Ellemann-Jensen (V), Mr Ellemann-Jensen (V), Mr Ellemann-Jensen (V), Mr Ellemann-Jensen (V). Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) and Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen (KF) I shall conclude the vote. voted 58 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 55 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstained 0. The proposal is adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 1 by Mrs Mette Frederiksen (S), Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Mr. Morten Østergaard (RV) and Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF) and proposals for adoption no. V 3 by Mrs Pernille Skipper (EL) lapsed. That concludes the debate. I'm asking you to calm down! Order must strike the hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20161007000800	For the sake of good order, I must point out that the Minister for Finance cannot be here today and that is why the Minister for Business and Growth is acting Minister. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161007000830	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 11 October 2016, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
