ParlaMint-DK_20161110130003	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Health and the Elderly (Sophi Løhde): Bill no. L 74 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Financing of Regions. Bill No. L 75 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Health. Bill No. L 76 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Medicines and Tissues). Minister for the Environment and Food (Esben Lunde Larsen): Bill no. L 77 (Proposal for a law amending the Act on environmental contributions and allowances for the scrapping and scrapping of cars. Bill No. L 78 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Coastal Protection. Bill No. L 79 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the keeping of dairy cattle and dairy offspring. The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20161110130103	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110130156	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 15 November 2016. The first one on the platform is the rapporteur for the questions put by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party, who will justify it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110130307	Thank you to the President, and thank you to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building for standing for the question. This is an important area, it is for all the parties of the Folketing, and it is so all the time, but I think that it is not least these days when there is a climate summit in Marrakesh in Morocco; where a new American president has just been elected who has said various things; and where we in the Folketing have many climate and energy policy discussions and also disagreements. So I would just like to thank the Minister for coming here and explaining this, and I look forward to what the Minister has planned, so that we can have a discussion on how we end up both climate and energy policy in the common objective of a broad majority in the Folketing that we should be fossil independent by 2050.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110130403	Thank you. Then we turn to the answer to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110130410	Thank you, President. Thank you, too, for the question and for the speech before us. I am pleased to have had this opportunity to discuss Climate Policy 2016 with the Danish Parliament. It follows from the Climate Act that the government is to prepare an annual climate policy statement to the Folketing. The report gives a comprehensive overview of Denmark's climate policy, which will help to ensure public and transparency about climate policy. The report also contains the Government's comments on the Climate Council's annual recommendations. With this year's climate policy statement, it becomes clear how developments both in the EU and internationally are increasingly helping to set the agenda for Danish climate policy. First of all, since last year's statement, the UN partners have managed to agree on a global climate agreement in Paris. The Paris Agreement is a historic turning point for the global transition to low-mission. With the agreement, we go from action from the few to action from everyone. The adoption of the Government's motion for a resolution on ratification of the Paris Agreement showed the broad support for the agreement among the parties of the Folketing. I am very pleased that we have reached the goal of Denmark's ratification by COP22. It sends an important signal to the international community about Danish support for the Paris Agreement. At EU level, this summer the Commission came up with their long-awaited proposals for both burden-sharing of the 2030 target for the non-quota sector and handling the rules for carbon binding in land and forest up to 2030. These initiatives will very much set the framework for Danish climate policy in the future. In addition to drawing out these overall international climate policy frameworks, the report also describes the status and conditions for fulfilling the Danish climate commitments. If we start looking forward to 2020, we will see that, fortunately, we are well on the way to fulfilling our EU commitments. As the year's report shows, the latest projections show that Denmark expects to overachieve its target in 2020 for the non-quota sector by approx. 12,5 million t CO2 The major challenge is towards 2030, where, according to the Commission's proposal, we will have the task of reducing emissions from the non-quota sector by 39%. This reduction target must be seen in the context of the so-called flexibility mechanisms, which are also presented in the proposal. Member States may use the flexibility mechanisms to complement national reductions in target achievement. Mechanisms must ensure that reductions are made where they are most cost-effective. The proposal envisages the continuation of the two existing mechanisms in the form of unlimited access to the purchase of the excess emission rights of other Member States, as well as unlimited access to the purchase of intra-EU project credits. In addition, two new mechanisms are being set up. These are, on the one hand, the use of quotas from the EU quota trading system and, on the other, the offsetting of LULUCF credits from improved carbon balance in land and forest. The possibility of using these flexibility mechanisms may have a major impact on Denmark's organisation of a cost-effective achievement of the target by 2030. These are technically complicated proposals. There is therefore a need for clarification and further technical clarification of the elements of the proposals, including inter alia: the challenges and opportunities associated with the application of the mechanisms presented in the proposal. The government is therefore in the process of analysing the Commission's proposals more closely, so the consequences of the action as it stands are well-lit. The negotiations on the Commission's proposal are starting now. Then the negotiations with the European Parliament follow. We can therefore expect it to take a few years for a final agreement to be reached. There is therefore a great deal of work ahead of us to ensure a sensible framework for how we achieve our climate targets with cost-effective reduction efforts up to 2030. In this way, Denmark can continue its course as a leading country in the climate area with ambitious efforts that take account of growth, competitiveness and employment. Now we have discussed the status and framework of the Danish reduction commitments. However, the report also contains some very important sections on the Danish action internationally. A great effort is being made by Denmark to promote fruitful and constructive COP negotiations. Next week, I myself will be present at COP-22 in Marrakesh. In this context, I would particularly like to highlight three points on which I would like to focus. Firstly, we need to get negotiations under way on the so-called ambition mechanism of the Paris Agreement, which is central to increasing global climate action over time. That is why Denmark and the EU are working to ensure that the mechanism is as ambitious as possible. Secondly, the issue of climate finance will once again be central. Climate funding is a Danish priority. Denmark contributes, among other things, to: with concrete experience in creating a good framework for private climate investment. Thirdly, there will be a focus on the implementation of the Paris Agreement outside the negotiating rooms. This applies both to the implementation of own climate targets, but also to support for developing countries' climate action. However, international climate action does not consist only of the COP negotiations. The government is also making great efforts to ensure the transition to low-missions in a number of emerging economies, such as: China through well-organised country cooperation. For most of the partner countries, they expect an increase in energy consumption over the next few decades and therefore also an increase in greenhouse gas emissions. This creates demand for Danish solutions in the conversion of the energy sector. Denmark can thus play an extremely important role in helping these countries. As a whole, the Danish Climate Policy report 2016· thus provides a broad insight into the many elements that make up Danish climate policy. I look forward to a good debate with you today on the possible challenges it presents. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110131057	Thank you, Minister. The negotiations will then be opened. The first one on the platform is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110131107	Thank you. That was among other things. the soon-ex-US President, Barack Obama, who said before the Paris meeting that we are the first generation to truly feel climate change, and we are the last generation to do something about them. In doing so, he simply meant that, apart from the fact that the climate-policy challenge, the changes we see in our world, must and must be an overriding problem for the political discussion both at home and in the rest of the world, we come up further on the scale of seriousness when we consider how impossible or how expensive and difficult it will be if we delay the efforts we are making, just a little bit. It was therefore extremely important that last year in Paris we agreed on the framework for an international climate agreement to ensure that children and grandchildren also have a planet to be on and that we pass on the nature we have taken over without leaving it in a state so that it can no longer be used for anything. The Marrakesh Climate Summit, which has begun and will be attended by the Minister and some of us other rapporteurs next week, must, of course, reaffirm and, so to speak, launch what is being achieved. One can also put it in another way: now we must not only talk about climate agreements and ambitions, now we must also act. It's really, really important. In concrete terms, this is likely to mean that, at least, the wise economists say that there must be massive investment in the green transition in the coming years. 90,000 billion. kr. one expects to be used for shopping in, as it were, the green shop until 2030. One of the green shops that is when you look at the world market is Denmark. We have actually spent 30-40 years developing some of the solutions that the rest of the world will have to buy in the coming years. This is, of course, an extremely great opportunity for us to create jobs, as the Minister has mentioned, in order to withdraw export earnings from Denmark. But it is also, and I must stress this, an indication that there will be many competitors. Now we've agreed that the green shop gets a lot of customers in the shop. Therefore, over the next few years there will be a lot of others who will be doing good as suppliers of green solutions. In this situation, if you stop or drive backwards or cut back, you lose the opportunities we have actually spent 30 years trying to get ourselves. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party are very critical of the fact that the government in the climate and energy sectors has made so many backward steps. It is, of course, because it hits the climate and hence the future of the planet, but it is also because it is bad merchanthood. It is simply bad grocery business to have spent all the tuition to get to the front of the field. It's the same way as if you're running time in Formula 1 but don't drive anywhere when the race really starts. That is why, of course, we have to stick to the leading position we have and use it to get some jobs home to the 3Fs, the metal workers, the engineers around the country and not just in the big cities. Because that is where we are actually creating green jobs. That is why it is incredibly regrettable when the government has cut back on research funds, actually halved them. It is about the EUDP, that is to say the special energy research funds. This has caused criticism from the business community, which I think is entirely justified: if you cut back on research, if you cut back on these things, which have to turn the good ideas into something we can sell out in the world, then it actually costs, because then we have less attractive products, we get fewer export earnings home, and we get fewer jobs. It is also a wrong decision when the government wants to cancel coastal wind turbines. In addition to the 6,000 jobs that the Minister of Finance says could be created by making coastal mills, it will also just mean that we are actually creating uncertainty about the agreements in Denmark that have made companies outside the country have also invested their money in Denmark. You have to be able to trust that a deal is a deal. Then I also have to say that it is a pity to come to Paris, as we did last year. It may be the Minister knows other examples, but I could not find other countries that came to Paris with a lower target than the previous year. The year before, when we were at the climate summit, Denmark came and said that it wanted a 40% reduction. in 2020. Last year, when we came to Paris, the new government had turned the goal down, while everyone else said that we should turn it up, we should be ambitious, we should say that this is the time we are moving. On the more specific points in the statement, I would like to say that the Climate Council has been asked to make some recommendations and the Minister comments on them in the statement. The part that is about flexibility, in this way, we would like to support the Social Democrats in understanding that it is important to achieve their climate objectives in the most effective way possible. It should not be more expensive than necessary. It should be a matter of course. We must do this in a way that makes sense in the long term too, so that we support flexibility. On the other hand, we may think that the government is using it a little too much as an excuse for not getting started. We are not sure that it is cheaper or better to wait. On the contrary, everything seems to suggest that the necessary changes, which must be made in transport and agriculture for the next 15 to 20 years, will only be more expensive if we wait for them to start, because then things will have to go even faster. About some of the things the Climate Council says about electric cars, one can only say that when the transport sector is to take a larger part of the climate task forward, it is of course also important that we introduce electric cars in Denmark. We have made an agreement with the government on how we think we could phase in taxes, provided that electric cars are sold, because it is extremely important for our energy system and for the climate that you get the transport. That is why we are very much looking forward to having a discussion with the government about whether the changes that have been made have actually brought this development to a standstill, rather than pushing it towards the transformation of the transport sector. Finally, there is a broad consensus that we need to look at how to get some more electricity into the heating. It is true, as the Minister replies in the statement, that the government is now proposing to abolish the PSO tax. We are in favour of discussing this from the point of view of the Social Democratic Party. But unfortunately that is not enough. When the Minister says that if we abolish the PSO tax, we are going to get some of the way to getting electricity into the heating sector, it is true that we are getting a little bit out of the way. But what determines whether you buy a heat pump? It's not like it's a little worse business than the rest, but it's just better than it used to be. It is only when it makes sense economically that you buy a heat pump. Therefore, it does not help to be closer to the goal if we do not get the last piece, and so we would like to discuss with the government how to come the last piece of change to the taxes and subsidies that stand in the way of our conversion. This also means that once again we have to tell the government that the tax and subsidy analysis, which is the basis for this whole discussion, we have to get on the table. It cannot help that we have some taxes which mean that you pour hot water or other heat from industrial production directly into the sea or into the air, when you could use it in district heating, or you have some other things that you would call crying. They'd be called molbo stories in the area I come from. We need to put an end to this if we are to have an effective green transition. So we look forward to the government talking a little less in this area too and putting some concrete proposals on the table to solve some of the climate and energy policy challenges facing us. On behalf of a number of parties, I should just like to read out a proposal for adoption. It is on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, Enhedslisten, Alternative, Radical Left and SF that I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption Parliament calls for the maintenance of the broad-based, long-term energy policy. Stability in the framework of energy policy is crucial for investors who can create tens of thousands of green jobs and billions of income from green technology exports. The Danish Parliament notes that the government has worked against the desired energy stability by either implementing or not implementing a number of activities, including the halving of EUDP energy research funds and the attempt to cancel the construction of the coastal wind turbines agreed in the energy settlement. As the Danish Parliament notes that the total cost of the PSO for the coastal wind turbines and Krieger's Flak will be less than provided for in the 2012 Energy Agreement, the government is invited to implement both projects. Furthermore, the Danish Parliament notes that the roll-back of the government in the green area makes it more difficult to meet the EU 2030 objectives, as well as the historically ambitious and legally binding Paris agreement, which is a milestone for the global green transition, and which is confirmed precisely these days at the Marrakesh climate summit. V 9).
ParlaMint-DK_20161110132102	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110132108	Thank you for your opening speech. I share many of the rapporteur's assessments of the climate policy statement - but most of all I am left with such an empty feeling in my stomach when I read it, because there is not a single proposal on how to solve the challenges ahead. There the statement says that we will come back to that. There are just two things I would like to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur. One is that it is very clear that we have committed ourselves in Paris by 2020 to deliver in relation to the 40%. I expect the Social Democrats to continue to support this. And the second is in relation to the non-quota sector. After all, there is nothing in the climate policy statement about what we have to deliver. On the contrary, it has to be said that the government is going in the wrong direction right now, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Does the rapporteur agree with me that, if we are to deliver in relation to the Paris Agreement, we also have to deliver in relation to the non-quota sector up to 2030?
ParlaMint-DK_20161110132207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110132209	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that our support for the climate policy objectives that we have previously agreed on has not changed. So they're 40%. is, of course, still gone what we are aiming for. We can then also see that in a number of areas, as the SF President also says, the government is pulling in the wrong direction and has made it harder to achieve those objectives. And that is extremely regrettable, both in relation to the necessary green conversion that we have, but also in relation to the fact that it will be more expensive, I think. And that is actually what I said in my speech, that is to say, I think that the challenge we face in the non-quota sector, which is the second, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr asks about the issue, is extremely great, and it will be no less of waiting to resolve it. We know that it is difficult to tackle transport and agriculture, and that is precisely why we are calling on the government to start already to discuss how we can do it in such a way that agriculture and transport can keep up, so that they can actually become part of the discussion on how to ensure it. Because we have come a great deal far in the area of energy policy, but we have still lost the two children of pain in transport and agriculture, which we must do much more about, and we can do better if we agree on this in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110132319	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110132320	I think that is very wise considerations. Now I have heard the rapporteur of the Left, but also the Minister for Climate, say this again and again with the PSO, that when we have abolished the PSO, we have practically solved all the problems. But the Climate Council says that if we abolish the PSO, we will have a shortfall of 3.1 million. t relative to CO 2 5 per cent the discharge in relation to the 1990 base year. Does the Social Democrat climate rapporteur agree with the Climate Council, or does the Social Democrat climate rapporteur agree with the very imaginative interpretation of the PSO assessment by the Minister and the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20161110132400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110132401	I think it has to be said that it is indisputable that if you remove the PRS from the electricity bill, more electricity will be used. And it is also true that it leads to greater emissions when it comes to accounting. When we think that it may be sensible to discuss the removal of the PSP, it is because in the green area we actually want electrification, so we would like to see more electricity being used in a number of areas, because the electricity coming from the wind turbines is actually good to use instead, also in some places where it can crowd out coal and oil. So we are fully aware of that. But it is also clear, of course, that if you make such an agreement, you still have to do something away to ensure energy savings and other things that will in some way become more difficult. But we will have to discuss how to correct that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110132447	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110132451	Thank you. I noted that the rapporteur's contribution to the report mentioned the government's desire to abandon coastal wind turbines. It is a view that the Danish People's Party shares with the government. However, the rapporteur also mentioned that dropping coastal offshore wind turbines would cost 6 000 jobs, which these wind turbines would otherwise have provided. I just want to hear the rapporteur: does the rapporteur recognise that the jobs created by the construction of coastal offshore wind turbines are temporary jobs and not permanent jobs? I fully recognise that some people get to work when you start a construction project, whether it is railroads or wind turbines, but once it's finished, these people have to do something else. So does the rapporteur recognise that the jobs created by the construction of coastal offshore wind turbines are temporary jobs and that once the windmills start operating, there will be very few people working with them?
ParlaMint-DK_20161110132545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110132546	It is extremely important not least in some of the areas where we want to set up wind turbines to create new jobs. And the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is quite right in saying that some people are going to work. That is actually how we have done it in a great many areas when we make investments. Then the rapporteur says that at some point they have been set up, and then fewer people will have to drift them. That is also true, and it is for this reason that we must always assess such things on the basis of whether it is actually a sensible social investment. When you invest in infrastructure, for example. Railways, this railway, even though it has been built, will still give value to society. And when you invest in energy plants, they still give value to society, even if they are finished. That is why it is important for me to say that where we can make decisions here, which are good for our energy supply and which, at the same time, get some people into work, we must do so. And where we can create some strength positions in the green area, it is a very good investment, because it has proved to be year after year to provide new jobs. And, of course, we support this, as we have agreed in the energy agreement, also with the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110132658	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110132700	So I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that these are temporary jobs and that the 6 000 people mentioned by the rapporteur in his speech will have to find something else to do when the coastal offshore wind turbines may have been built if they are built at all. Do we agree that these are temporary jobs? I just want the rapporteur to confirm that. I should also like the rapporteur to confirm that, in the reply we have received, in the negotiations on the PSO in which we have both participated, the people of the Ministry of Finance say exactly the same thing: that there is no lasting employment effect of building coastal offshore wind turbines. I guess the rapporteur recognizes this as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110132740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110132742	In other words, when you set a project in motion, which gives jobs, whether you build a house or set up some wind turbines, it keeps up the project when it is finished, and then there are fewer people who need to keep the house going, that is to say, run it, and there will also be fewer people to run the wind turbines. So we can, of course, derive from the comment made by the rapporteur of the DF: is it not completely irrelevant? Can't it be used for anything? And it is just very important for me and the Social Democratic Party to make it clear that these jobs first of all get people into work now and here they can then also get work on something else green that we will develop afterwards, but secondly that they also give value to society, because what we create is actually a good investment, also in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110132825	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110132829	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. Unfortunately, I did not get to hear the very good introduction that the rapporteur had, but I just got into the Chamber when the rapporteur talked about good and bad grocery shopping, and that made me just press the button. Because I thought that I would actually like to have the rapporteur confirm whether the rapporteur does not agree with you that we are actually politicians and should create a good general framework for our private companies in Denmark and not run the business ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110132910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110132912	It was well-advised that I used the term grocery to awaken the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur. Oh, kidding aside. It is quite true that when I talk about merchanthood, it is about whether something is a good business for the country. It is not, in fact, the case that we earn money when skilled Danish companies sell products around the world. After all, it is the Danish companies that are pulling back export earnings. And then we are back to the second point mentioned by the rapporteur, namely the framework conditions, and these are the ones that we can control at Christiansborg. There is what I am saying: in a situation where a great many research funds have actually been spent, as I know Liberal Alliance would like, to ensure that companies can sell their products, get them ready to sell, and when you have spent a lot of development hours, when you have invested a lot in trying to create a system that works at home, it is bad business if you are in the situation where the rest of the world is beginning to discover that we have something, then say: Now we are changing our framework conditions, now we are stopping our private companies. Because that would make them unable to reap the benefits that the private companies would actually otherwise be able to reap.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110133022	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110133023	Thank you for your answer. I don't think I agree with Mr. Simpson. Jens Joel in that with the political decisions on climate targets we are actually slowing down Danish companies. But Mr. Jens Joel then does not agree with me that the framework conditions that we as politicians set for the Danish business community by maintaining a PSO are actually worse than if we abolished the PSO?
ParlaMint-DK_20161110133047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110133049	We have gone constructively into those discussions, among others. because we think that there are some advantages in moving the PSP from the electricity bill, and that is what we are doing. on some of the production companies, as I believe Mr. Carsten Bach refers to. So we agree with that part. When we say that it is also about framework conditions, it is because we are afraid that if you create uncertainty about investment in this area, it means that it will be more expensive with the green transition and that there will be fewer companies that will invest in it, and then we will not develop the products that the rest of the world right now and these years will come to Denmark to buy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110133128	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110133132	Thank you. I would just like to say to the rapporteur that, in the alternative, we are fully in line with what I have heard in the rapporteur's speech, and I am pleased about that. Because we are, after all, like one of the few parties a little outside of this energy agreement debate. Therefore, we are also a little curious to hear what happens especially to such things as PSO. It was often said that the PRS is illegal, and I would like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that this is not the case. The possibilities lie in adjusting it in different ways. At least we have two ways of adjusting it. Either with what is called an opening system, leaving it open for neighbouring countries to participate in investing, or we might be able to create a green meter fee, as has been done in the Czech Republic. So I want to hear what happens if we end up where the PRS is actually being removed... where the rapporteur thinks there might be funding for a long-term stable climate action.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110133242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110133243	First of all, I fully agree with the alternative rapporteur that the government is stretching it legally when it claims that the PSO cannot be done, in other words that it has been found to be illegal. The current version of the PSP is illegal, which is why we need to do something. That is why, in the Social Democrats too, we have undertaken the task of making some adjustments. We then agree with the government in another area, namely that there may be some advantages in financing the PSO or the green switch-over in a way other than the electricity bill. That is why we are constructively involved in these discussions. It acts among other things. about this electrification thing, where we actually want some more to use the wind power, etc. etc. So there are pros and cons of the different PSP models, and there are advantages and disadvantages of the Finance Act model. We have said that we want to be involved in discussing whether we can finance the green transition wiser, and that is what we are doing with the government right now. On the other hand, I am also astonished by that source of funding. I do not know much about this either, even though we are in the negotiations, because the last time we were in negotiations, there was a 2025 plan, and then the government had one funding. I understand that the 2025 plan has been put away and we have not been in negotiations since. So we do not actually know whether it is because the government has presented something new in terms of how they want to abolish it and finance it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110133405	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110133406	I'm glad to hear that. It is my experience that if we are to have funding for the green transition in an annual budget debate, it will be a very uncertain investment environment that the green economy will meet. That is also how I hear the rapporteur. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20161110133426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110133428	At any rate, it is true that we still have to make long-term energy agreements. We have an energy agreement now running from 2012 to 2020. There we have agreed on a number of projects, including wind turbine projects. There is what we are saying: when you do this, you make such an 8-year agreement, you cannot come after companies have actually spent a two-digit million dollars on, for example. to make supply on the coastal mills, and say that hoof, we didn't mean it anyway. That is not the way to conduct business policy. But whether it is financed by the PRS or by the Finance Act, you have to make an agreement over the next 5-10 years, saying that this is what we are aiming for, and then business can invest in confidence that this is what it will look like.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110133510	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110133514	Well, I think it's interesting if something happens about those PESO negotiations. Because I took part in some discussions on the other side of the summer holiday, and various notes were drawn up which actually indicated that if you looked out in Europe, there were different solutions to choose than to take it over to the Finance Act, which at that time was the top priority of the government and which, of course, has been shot down. I think it is interesting if we can find something as well-balanced as the current PSO system, where all electricity consumers are helping to pay for sustainable conversion and where business also contributes. I am very concerned about the cost of the 41⁄2 billion. kr., which the business community is now paying in the PSP is now being passed on to pensioners and employees in some strange process, where one gets it on a tax payment instead. I would think that was quite unreasonable. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur believes that a socially balanced model can be set up to replace the PSO.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110133617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110133618	We fully share the Enhedslisten's considerations that it is important to ensure one that we can say social and fair distribution and profile on this. That is also why we said when the government proposed before the summer that everyone should have a cheaper electricity bill and that everyone should, as it were, help to get a cheaper electricity bill through the model of the bottom tax that had been put forward, that it was, in fact, fairer than what the government had proposed with the 2025 plan, where it was said that everyone should have a cheaper electricity bill, but only those with the lowest income should contribute because they wanted to cancel what is called the green check. So there it would be the pensioners, it would be the lowest paid, who would have to pay the entire bill to abolish the PSO. I am a little guilty of what the government thinks now, because there is no longer a 2025 plan. However, it is still my impression that the government wants to move it from the electricity bill, and it would still be my view that the Social Democrats would like to discuss whether one can move it from the electricity bill if one can create a profile that is more socially fair than that which the government proposed with the 2025 plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110133722	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110133724	Well, I'd like to discuss that, too, if I were summoned to those meetings. The rapporteur mentioned another point in his speech. It was about changes to the taxes on heat pumps in order to come up with a solution that would encourage heat pumps. There are not so many meetings in the energy conciliation circle, so perhaps we should take the debate here instead. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur sees any possibility that we could downgrade some support for biogas, which could then open up the possibility that we could provide increased support for heat pump solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110133752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110133753	I fully agree with Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen in the challenge, and I also agree with what I hear when the government says: Today it is a very bad business to make a heat pump; when we remove the PSP, it becomes a little less bad business, but it is still gone a bad business. That is why it will not help, it will not be enough. So how do we do it? Yes, one could discuss whether to give more support. We have also been involved, together with the Enhedslisten, in ensuring that some of the cuts made in the Finance Act in the heat pump area were taken off the table, one might say. I think we should then also discuss whether the possibility is that the tax on heating electricity can be reduced in a targeted manner and whether it can solve it because it is then a less broad base. We would very much like to discuss this, because we would like to be in line with the heat pumps.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110133843	Thank you, and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Secondly, it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110133900	I should like to begin by thanking the Minister for this statement, which was sent to Parliament at the end of October. That is a statement which I have read with great interest. It explains both the government's own policy in this area, but it also explains more soberly and explains what the status is on the various objectives Denmark has and what the status is on international climate policy. I would say that we in the Danish People's Party are pleased that we are about to be in line with our target achievement in terms of the international commitments that we have with reducing climate gas emissions by 2020. We note that this objective is being achieved, and it is in itself gratifying, but it has been expensive. In the Danish People's Party, we have been warning for many years that our energy and climate policy was expensive, that we went on our own and that we went very quickly along the path that not so many other countries set out. This has caused us a socio-economic loss, a distortion of the economy, in which we have created jobs and exports in the green sector, but in which other sectors have had to endure. As long as renewable energy is more expensive than conventional energy, it consumes money that would otherwise have created revenue and thus activity and jobs in other sectors. I would also like to remind you that in the Danish People's Party we believe that the best energy policy we can pursue, and indeed the best climate policy we can pursue, is not necessarily that we have to replace our entire production apparatus, so that our entire energy production capacity must be converted from fossil energy to green energy as soon as possible. In fact, we believe that the cheapest way to reduce CO2 is to save energy. It is also something that is good and healthy socio-economic in that citizens and companies with a guarantee can find better ways to spend their money than to pay for too much spent energy. So I think we can save a lot of socio-economic, but also a lot on CO2 It is a cheaper way to go than to replace the entire production apparatus. This is also the strategy we believe we should follow when we discuss at some point here in the Folketing how we meet the new requirements that have come from the European Union. It is the case that the EU has set some CO2 levels. It is not going to be easy, but we in the Danish People's Party would recommend that we go along the path of trying to save energy rather than making more and expensive investments in new production equipment. The last thing I want to address here is that we need to be better at using the green energy that we are already producing. We must note that investments have been made in a very large production plant, mainly wind turbines. The Danish People's Party has not always been very much in favour of this, but we note that it has been done and that capacity is now there. Then we just need to make better use of it now that production is there. Unfortunately, it is a fact that much of our electricity is produced at uneven times when demand is not there, and then we will have to export some energy that is subsidised. And we are going to export it abroad at very low prices. There is little point in that, so we need to get better at using our energy now that we have spent money on having it, and we need to use it as best we can. That was my kick in the energy and climate policy debate for today, namely that we should focus on energy savings and on using the energy we already have. And in those words, I would like to thank once again for the climate review and look forward to an exciting debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110134314	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110134318	Thank you. The rapporteur attaches importance to saving money, and it is thus a healthy principle to try to save money. This is among other things. Therefore, the rapporteur would like the PSO system to be removed so that money can be saved on the changeover. However, in order to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, in order to achieve the objectives necessary to resolve the widely recognised climate crisis we are facing now, something else must be replaced. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether I should understand the desire to save money, like we find a cheaper way of doing it, and then I would like to hear what it is like or whether it simply does not recognise that there is this climate crisis and that we need to reduce our emissions and to reconstruct our energy system at the rate that the Paris Agreement says.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110134419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110134421	I would say that in the Danish People's Party we believe that we must live up to the agreements that we make as a country with other countries, so if a majority in this Parliament decides or has already decided to enter into and live up to the Paris Agreement, we must of course do so. The path we are setting out is that we believe that we should focus first and foremost on whether we can save energy by simply using less energy and thus emit less CO2 That is what we think there are more ways to do. We are very good in Denmark for example. isolating our homes through requirements for new construction, but we can also invest in saving heat by improving our existing housing stock. There is also great potential in replacing obsolete heating solutions to more modern ones. So in this way we think that in a more socio-economic way than has been done so far, we can save ourselves to the CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20161110134526	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110134528	I fully agree with the rapporteur that we must also implement energy savings. But the rapporteur really imagines that we can say that we are now going to stop with this expansion of renewable energy, the conversion of the energy system, and then we can only invest in saving energy by, for example, saving energy. to re-insulate our buildings? And how is this going to be a cheap effort? As I understand it, it is actually a relatively expensive effort per year. saved kilowatt-time compared to so many other bets.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110134600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110134601	I note that we probably do not have the same idea of how much money can be saved and how the economy is in energy saving. Of course, when you invest in energy renovation of a dwelling or a new heating system, there is of course an investment that has to be paid in the first place, but in return it also earns itself again by having a lower consumption afterwards. So that is the way in which the economy is good, both for the individual homeowner, but also for society in the longer term, and there is at least better socio-economic in it than to subsidise for a CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20161110134635	Thank you, and then it's sir. Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110134639	It's about these PSO models that the Danish People's Party has drawn into the negotiations. I can read that Dansk Folkeparti will not be happy if Danish PRS support should go out of the country. That is what I have noted. A Danish-German PV agreement has been drawn up, which means very concretely that there may be 2.4 MW PV plants which receive Danish PSO support and are owned by German companies. At the same time, there may be 50 MW solar installations, which may be Danish-owned and receive German PSO support. When the German aid is then at a higher level than the Danish aid, I can immediately see that it could be a really good business. Not only are the plants which receive German aid and are Danish owned much larger than the opposite. The level of German support is also higher, and then I think it is a pure win win win. So I would like to hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party whether it would not be right to go after such intergovernmental agreements, in which, in a way, one opens up its market a little, like the solar system that has been concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110134752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110134753	I would like to start by saying that we in the Danish People's Party were annoyed when the European Commission came and interfered and said that the previous PSP model we have had was no longer allowed. It was precisely a PSP model which contained that Danish support crowns supported projects within the country's borders. But that was not to be done, according to the Commission, and now we have started to look at a new form of funding for green technologies. There's the model, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen is setting up, not one we support. We prefer that support for green technologies be included as part of the Finance Act and thus financed by taxes and charges, as is the case with all other public expenditure. And it will thus also be included in a priority where it is so that if you want to create a new offshore wind farm, it must then be given priority up to improving the hospital system or increasing the elderly check. There's probably another priority than Enhedslisten's. We prefer better hospitals and old people's checks, but priority is healthy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110134904	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110134916	I understand that earlier in this debate the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has stressed that temporary jobs are only created if the coastal mills are built, i.e. the 6 000 jobs. But then there is Krieger's Flak, who, in time, will follow on from the coastal mills, if you complete both, and then it will be 9,000 jobs. I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not recognise that it can be quite good for a lot of people, that there are jobs in the wind turbine industry for perhaps four years, and that this could mean that 6 000 people have their jobs throughout that period?
ParlaMint-DK_20161110134953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110134954	Well, I fully acknowledge that it is good that people have jobs. I also recognise that when a construction project such as Krieger's Flak or coastal offshore wind turbines or railways or motorways is set in motion, some people are being employed while construction is in progress. But it is the case with construction projects that it is temporary jobs, and what I tried when I made my brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur was to point out and get the left-wing rapporteurs to recognise that it is temporary jobs and not enduring, as it often sounds like when the left-wing argues for investment in green technology.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110135032	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110135036	Thank you. I'd like to know if Mr. Mikkel Dencker actually acknowledges that wind turbines today are the cheapest form of energy • especially wind turbines on land, but there is some evidence that offshore wind turbines are very close to • when it comes to producing electricity. Studies from DTU show this, and it shows more offers in the world, for example. In Bahrain, where we have just offered to get more energy, and it turns out that wind turbines are actually the cheapest today. Does the Danish People's Party accept that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161110135105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110135107	At any rate, I recognise that the price is too low for wind turbines. I am fully aware of that. There have been some calls for tenders for the past time, which have shown very falling prices. I fully acknowledge that. But I must also say that it is more expensive to invest in new capacity than to use existing capacity. So I will still hold on to the fact that if you use existing coal plants during the time they can hold on to it, it is the cheapest way to produce electricity. And then they also have the advantage over wind turbines that you can decide when to produce them yourself. You can't do that with wind turbines.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110135145	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110135146	This means, as I hear it, that the Danish People's Party recognizes that when you have to replace capacity that goes out because it is too old, the cheapest thing is actually today to make wind energy. Then I would like to ask another question, namely whether the Danish People's Party believes that Denmark should be self-producing with energy, or whether the Danish People's Party believes that we should make ourselves more dependent on importing energy. Because if you think we should be self-sufficient, it goes without saying that when we have a lot of capacity that goes out over the next 10 years, both black and green, then you also have to build something new. Does the Danish People's Party accept that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161110135223	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110135224	We believe that when it comes to reinvesting in new production capacity, for example. Because there is some capacity that has passed the expiry date, then you have to choose the optimal solution, and the price certainly plays a major role. And if it's wind that turns out to be best or cheapest at the time, then it's wind we choose and if it's sun, that's what we choose. It should also be borne in mind, when we talk about solar energy or wind energy, that it is not always possible to produce it; then you have to have some backup capacity, either something you can buy yourself for, or an additional device standing ready. So in this way it is not so straightforward and simple to say that wind is necessarily the cheapest, just because it is the cheapest per. kilowatt-hour. You should also remember that you have to have alternatives when the wind doesn't blow or the sun doesn't shine.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110135315	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110135319	Thank you. I would also like to address the issue of jobs, because I think that we see that some of the jobs created outside the metropolitan area and outside Aarhus, in other words in some of the sparsely populated areas where jobs are actually very much needed, are green jobs. And when my own trade union, 3F, focuses very much on entering the green transition, it is precisely because they find that very many of their members are some of those who get jobs in the production of green products. Then I would like to hear about something from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. It is true that construction projects are temporary, but what is the answer to these people, and the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party knows someone who would say no to taking a job, for example. For the next four years because it was only four years? Does the rapporteur know a 3F or a metal worker who says: No, I do not want to work for the next 4 years, because then I have to move on to something else? Or is it very normal in this area of work?
ParlaMint-DK_20161110135424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110135425	I fully recognise that construction projects provide jobs, and it is good for the people who are hired there, and it is also good that they build something that gives value to society. But if it is a question for the Social Democratic Party of creating as many jobs as possible for the investment made in wind turbines, for example, then perhaps we should also look at whether it was anything other than wind turbines, those people would have to build something else that gave greater social value in the longer term, for example. rail or motorways. That is another thing you could look at if you had to provide jobs for the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110135458	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110135500	Well, now we also have an agreement with the Danish People's Party on a train fund, so we fully recognise that it is a very good idea to invest in infrastructure. But I think that the strength of the green transition and some of what we have been able to do in Denmark is that on the back of some broad agreements we have been able to create a great many jobs for our 3Fs, metal workers and engineers in all sorts of places in the country by actually developing some strength positions. Does the rapporteur recognise that since we are a small country, we cannot be equally good at everything, but that the green area actually gives Denmark a position of strength and gives some income to the country and creates jobs, because we are some of the best in the world in this particular area?
ParlaMint-DK_20161110135544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110135545	As I have already said many times before today, we recognise that it throws away jobs when you invest as heavily in a sector as it has done. It has produced results. We have a green industry in Denmark which produces, which provides jobs and which exports. That is good, but it has come because we have subsidised and helped on the way. So if we were to try to figure out how to get the most jobs through public investment, then there would probably also be other sectors that could generate a higher return.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110135619	Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110135622	Thank you. It was right up to the discussion or debate that is now taking place on this issue of jobs and permanent jobs and temporary jobs, etc. I am a relatively new climate and energy rapporteur, and I know that Mr. Mikkel Dencker, as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, has a bit more experience in this area than I have, and I very much appreciate the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party's insight into the area. I would therefore like to know whether the rapporteur will confirm to me that the Environmental Economic Council has, at some point, made recommendations to stop support for renewable energy production in Denmark, because it costs the Danes approx. 3.5 billion kr. and that in terms of job creation it would actually create 5,000 permanent jobs in Denmark if we abolished support for renewable energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110135719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110135720	To begin with, I would like to thank Mr. Carsten Bach for recognition. I can therefore confirm the conclusions to which the honourable Member refers. I sense that the questioner has read this report not so long ago, while, as far as I am concerned, it is probably two or three years ago that I read it last. However, I recall the same figures and that the Environmental Economic Council actually advised against going further out of the green track with the investments that had been made so far and that, if you invested the money differently, you could actually get more jobs out of the money invested. Whether it was 5,000 or not, I don't remember, but the conclusion is the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110135802	Then we thank the rapporteur, there are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110135809	Thank you for that, President. The climate policy review for 2016 shows that Denmark is the absolute leader in this area, both historically but also forward towards 2020, where we clearly seem to overfulfill our international commitments. It is precisely the international commitments that increasingly characterise Danish climate policy. This is very natural, as the European Union is negotiating and committing itself together in the UN climate negotiations. The conclusion of the global climate agreement in Paris at COP21 is also a turning point in global climate action, as all countries are now committed to taking part in the efforts in relation to a green transition, a transformation that has been going on for a long time in Denmark, and we must make use of that. Throughout the world, efforts will be made to get as much green change for the money as possible, which is why we in Denmark need to focus on cost-effective reduction solutions. We export more than 70 billion annually. kr. in energy technology, and we must therefore ensure that our companies have the best possible framework conditions. We have to sell the story of a profitable green transition, and we have to show the good examples. We must make greater use of the fact that the whole world is going to go in the green direction that Denmark is doing. Therefore, the government set up the Energy Commission to make recommendations on how to design Denmark's green transition cost-effectively, while respecting international reduction obligations. Furthermore, the government has proposed to abolish the special tax on green conversion, i.e. the PSO, and to finance it through the Finance Act. There are very great potentials in that. We will have Europe's third cheapest power, which is, of course, welcome for our exports, our manufacturing companies and everyone else using energy, but it is also an opportunity to make the greatest green progress in recent times, as lower electricity prices encourage a climate-friendly transition. In the government we will make electricity a more competitive alternative to heating, transport, etc. These are examples of the government putting action behind words of green realism rather than a green symbol policy. We want Denmark's positions of strength to be maintained, and we want Danish companies to be able to compete in an international market. We need to make electricity cheaper so that we can afford smart green energy solutions so that we can exploit our export potential and act within international climate commitments. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110140120	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110140126	Thanks for the speech. Well, it is true that the government will achieve a target of a lower price of electricity bill by abolishing the PSO. What is just the problem in that is that it is not an intelligent way of managing it. This is, in fact, market management, for which the rapporteur speaks. At the same time, the rapporteur advocates that we should achieve a better use of electricity. It is therefore necessary that we have a little more control over when we switch, so that we can get more electricity into our heat supply; so that we can get more electricity into the transport sector. I think there is a lack of self-reflection on top of that joy that the electricity bill is now getting smaller. Because the price is not going to be so low that it is worth investing in the large heat pumps. How will the rapporteur resolve this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20161110140218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110140221	In the Left, we agree with virtually all parties in the Danish Parliament.I think I can actually say all parties in the Danish Parliament that we need more electricity as part of our solutions, i.e. to displace oil and other forms of energy. And if we are to do that, we need to put action behind the words "and not do like at least large parts of the current opposition, which has only made fine promises in terms of objectives etc. We put action behind the words by removing the PRS tax, which is a major reason why increased use of electricity is far too expensive, whether we are talking about refueling the car with electricity instead of gasoline or diesel or whether we are talking about heating the household. We actually put action behind words, and no one else has done so. That is why I am, in fact, very proud that we are now finally ensuring that we do something about it and take some of the greatest green advances in recent times, as I also mentioned. Then I was not given the opportunity to answer the rapporteur's question on heat pumps, but the rapporteur is following up a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110140332	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110140335	When the rapporteur says that action is important, I have to say that the government does not have a majority in favour of a PSP solution so far. So no action has been taken. I would then like to give the rapporteur once again the opportunity to respond to how a solution will be found to promote heat pumps in the Danish heating system.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110140353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110140355	It is attractive to abolish the PSO tax. It is attractive for the green conversion to promote the use of heat pumps, promote the use of electricity in transport, etc. And calculations from the Ministry also show that in several cases an electric heat pump will be competitive with e.g. Chip-fired works. That's why it's a batter. Finally, the government has set up an Energy Commission to make some recommendations. A joint committee has been set up to make recommendations in relation to a grant and tax analysis. And, in the wake of that, we must, of course, consider whether it is possible to take further steps in this direction. I can only guarantee that it is the current government that has put forward proposals to make the greatest and most ambitious green progress.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110140440	A brief comment from Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110140445	Thank you. According to the Climate Council, the government's plans to cancel the PRS tax will lead to an additional 3 million. t CO 2 of Denmark's total emissions, and that is why we are concerned about that approach by the Alternative. Why not look carefully at where it would be sensible to use more electricity, in particular in heat pumps, which we have talked about a lot of times, in geothermal heat pumps, in large and small heat pumps, and then relax some charge there, so that we get it looked over but retain the PSO system itself with the adjustments that need to be made? You could also choose simply to make a green meter fee, as you have it in the Czech Republic. I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110140536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110140539	Thank you. I am quite aware that the former government's Climate Council has come up with this concern, but what you have to keep in mind is that when you make growth packages, there will be an additional emissions of CO2 We will then just make some very ambitious growth packages and make really many jobs, and that will of course challenge our CO2 So there will be a small burst for a short number of years. What is worth saying, I think, is that already by 2020 80% will. of the electricity we use in Denmark is from renewable sources, which is why we are taking huge steps forward, which we must, of course, continue to support. That is why removing the PRS tax will only make it even more attractive to make more renewable energy and will make it even more attractive to use more renewable energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110140641	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110140644	Yes, but that is precisely why I propose that it be done purposefully, in other words intelligently, where it can make sense. A generally higher electricity consumption, which will be achieved by lowering the price of electricity, will give a much higher CO2 What would be smart was to say: Where is the good electricity consumption, where can good electricity consumption in a heat pump replace some fossil energy? Wouldn't that be the smartest thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20161110140718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110140721	It is simply because there is a difference in basic thinking, I think. In the government, we are not concerned with making symbol politics. We are not concerned with creating great climate targets for Denmark and then do not care if the production moves abroad. We would much rather, if we were to have an iron foundry we would, after all, have iron castings in the world continue to have that iron casting being placed in Denmark and bet that it will be expanded in Denmark, because we already consume 80% by 2020. of our energy as renewable energy. Then it is much more environmentally friendly, climate-friendly for the world's climate. That's what we're preoccupied with. And there we cannot regulate where companies are going to move, and so just rejoice that Denmark's accounts are now great because they are now making iron casting in Poland instead of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110140812	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110140816	The rapporteur said in his reply to Mr Seligman's question. Søren Egge Rasmussen, that this government has taken the greatest step for the green transition in Denmark ever. I would like to ask the rapporteur what then makes the government suggest that it may reach 31%. CO 2 I just think it is such a truth with modifications to say that one has taken the biggest step for the green transition, so I just want to ask: is it better to only reach 31%. than to reach 40%.?
ParlaMint-DK_20161110140847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110140850	I said quite literally that we had stood for some of the greatest political progress for the green transition. And precisely in relation to the SF's question, I would like to say that this once again shows that there is a great difference between the present and the previous government, which was good at making symbolic policy and setting objectives, but without translating it into action. Under the current government, we have actually achieved our 40 per cent goal. CO2 So you can ask: is it the fault of the current government? No, it's not. Is it the fault of the previous government? No, it's not. Why all of a sudden we hit over 40 percent.? Yes, it was because it rained more in Norway and because we burned more biomass. So we're greener? No, we're not. Does the rapporteur's party feel it has been achieved? No, I do not suppose so, because it is actually due to several different circumstances in the rest of the world. That is why we in the Left are concerned about what political action is being taken. It is not a question of who can think of the highest number.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110140948	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110140953	I think, with such a translation of this newspeak by the rapporteur, I would like to say: no, you have not taken the greatest green step. The previous government did so, and I am in agreement with the rapporteur on that. The rapporteur has said on several occasions that he would like to do more for heat pumps in the country's power plants and that the abolition of the PSO would automatically mean more heat pumps. I fully agree with the ambition that we should have more heat pumps on the district heating plants. That's why we had this subsidy scheme. But you could also imagine other models to do so. Could the government, for example? Imagine a lightening of the electricity tax, then, differentiate it further, for that must now be done precisely in relation to the pumps, so that we get more of them out on the heating plants?
ParlaMint-DK_20161110141034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110141037	This is one of the things the government and the Left want to address when we get our tax and subsidy analysis. What I am just saying here is that we are taking the first step. We are even taking the first very, very big step, which in some cases actually makes electric heat pumps competitive with a chips-fired plant. And that's kind of what I'm proud of. We translate it into action. We don't just have a CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20161110141102	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110141113	Thank you. After all, it has been a long time since the Social Democrat rapporteur read out the text which a number of parties are behind. I have therefore allowed myself to merge the text into my speech. What was the beginning of the text that has been presented is that the Folketing calls for the maintenance of the broad-based long-term energy policy. Stability in the framework of energy policy is crucial for investors who can create thousands of green jobs and billions of income from green technology exports. We fully agree with this in the Enhedslisten. What, then, have we seen of recent developments and which are also mentioned in the statement on page 7? Well, that is the fact that the blue block agricultural package in such a way leads to an increase in emissions. It is also clear that the headless proposal for changes to the current PSP system, which leads to increased use of power without control, what you might call a stupid electricity consumption, is something that will increase CO2 We need increased electrification of society, and it needs to be managed intelligently. We need the increased volumes of wind power to enter the heat sector and the transport sector in a controlled way. The government does nothing to meet the EU's demand for 10%. renewable energy in the transport sector. At the same time, however, the opportunity is used to the utmost when the European Commission states that the Danish PSO system could be in breach of Articles 30 and 110 of the EDF Treaties on discriminatory duties and charges. Perhaps the reason for this is more that the Commission has asked about the current easing of the PSO to business, which is an indirect State aid and which the Commission has seen. Compliance with the energy compromise may result in 6 000 jobs being secured during the construction phase only when the near-coastal mills are implemented. The good news is that Krieger's Flak can create 9,000 jobs during the construction phase. It is worth noting two projects that follow each other, and we could be lucky, so there are a great many of the jobs in Denmark, which will be located in Jutland, lie in the middle Jutland, and which are of immense importance to employment in that region. After all, this is not just a debate on jobs. We need to see that there is a lasting climate effect by building those mills. It should not just be a matter of whether there are jobs in it. It is, of course, good if we come to have such a civilised and developed society that we can reduce working hours. So it is not an end in itself to create as many jobs as possible. But there are huge potentials in Danish energy technology exports, and if we come to the conclusion that we are building Europe's cheapest coastal wind farm, and then we are building the world's cheapest offshore wind farm, then we have a huge showcase for the whole world with the global climate problems we face. The text presented today also states that the Danish Parliament notes that the government has worked against the desired energy stability by either implementing or not implementing a number of activities, including the halving of energy research funds in the EUDP and the attempt to cancel the construction of the coastal wind turbines agreed in the energy settlement. It is incredibly important to allocate more research and development funds to create new technology, new climate solutions and new energy solutions. In the statement to the Danish Parliament, the government says that it will work to ensure that 580 million will be set aside by 2020. kr. in EUDP funds. The recovery supports the Enhedslisten, of course. What the government has cut is catastrophic, and this has helped to limit the potential for development. If you look at the cold figures, you just have to see that under the previous government there were almost 400 million. kr. in EUDP funds per year. What we have then experienced here from 2016 is that over the Finance Act only some 50 million have been set aside. kr., and then you've been inside making patch solutions and taking the money from the research reserve where the funds could go for a wide range of other good purposes. Then you've ended up with 184 million this year. kr., and there is a prospect that we will have a similar amount next year. Then, in the budget estimates, there are only 53 million. kr., also in this 2020, and the government is now beginning to speak up to 580 million. kr. Of course, there is a long way to go in terms of EUDP funds. I would like to call on energy rapporteurs to look very carefully at the evaluation carried out by EUDP funds and where you can clearly see what a professional effect it is in that there is some support for the development of new solutions in Denmark. The text of today, which is now being distributed, also states that, as the Danish Parliament notes that the total cost of the cost of the coastal wind turbines and Krieger's Flak will be less than provided for in the 2012 Energy Agreement, the government is encouraged to implement both of these projects. I think it is very thought-provoking that we now have two tenders where we have received significantly lower offers than we expected. This means, of course, that both projects can be implemented. They can be implemented in such a way that we save on energy conciliation and so there is no reason to whip around and make up all kinds of savings. There are, among other things: One of the savings I think should be taken away, as was previously proposed. There is a remaining pool for experimental mills. I think that these funds should be used. They must be offered again, so that the wind turbine sector in Denmark can come up with proposals on what is to be developed as the next step. For there is still a development that can happen that can make the mills better and cheaper and that can make more mills that can be exported from Denmark. I think this is so important that it should be quite natural for this sort of thing to be discussed in the energy conciliation circle. So that is not on the agenda for tomorrow. I'm wondering. Because when you're part of an energy reconciliation, I guess you're part of it. Then the decision has been taken that what it says must be implemented. I'm wondering a lot. The text that has been divided goes on to say that the Danish Parliament also notes that the roll-back of the government in the green area makes it difficult to meet the EU's 2030 objectives and the historic, ambitious and legally binding Paris agreement, which is a milestone for the global green transition, and which is confirmed precisely at the Marrakech climate summit these days. I do not know whether it is that simple, because unfortunately the United States is on the way to changing its president and that we are facing a climate denier who is going to lead the world's largest CO2 It is a president who wants to save the coal industry at national level, abandon Obama's climate targets and deny that climate problems are man-made. Honestly, it looks pitch black. This means that there is a further need for Denmark to cooperate internationally closely with nations and movements that will the green transition. That is why it is so important that we in Denmark stick to our energy policy, stick to our energy reconciliation and build on it, start thinking about what is going to happen after 2020, when we are going to have a new energy reconciliation, which may take 8 years to come, perhaps 10 years to come, and which may need to have a completely different weighting. I think it has been exciting to follow the Danish Parliament this past year and see that there is a technological development. There it is that solar cells suddenly become significantly cheaper, so you have to intervene politically. But we really need to open up again. We need to make a plan for how to get 20%. electricity from solar cells in the Danish system. We need to get a proper plan for whether it is okay for them to stand out on agricultural land. Perhaps we can come to the conclusion that these can be solutions where agriculture can be operated while there are solar cells. There are, in fact, some new solutions that can be part of the sustainable transition and in which I think we owe the nation and owe it to the Folketing to have a much more constructive approach to how we drive this forward. I believe that Denmark has a huge potential to remain a pioneering country in the area of climate change. There may be a lot of pluses about that. The best thing is that we can help solve the climate problems of the planet.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110142022	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. And then there is a brief comment from Mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110142028	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I am just trying to find out how exactly the rapporteur thinks an energy settlement is being broken. Well, in the left optics we have no energy reconciliation on the coastal mills, because it costs 2 billion. kr. more than we had provided. We are very excited about Krieger's Flak because it costs 5 billion. kr. less than provided, well to feel even if they then come 15 km. Into the water. The rapporteur then mentions the experimental mills in Nissum Bredning, which form part of the pool which has been decided. It is also a success, but there are a few funds that could not be used. You had it all checked out as you wanted. Is the problem that not as much money as possible has been burned off on it? Well, I don't quite understand the problem. Let's take the experimental mills. The problem with energy conciliation is obviously that there is a small amount of money that could not be squeezed into that project. The project was simply not larger. If you take the coastal windmills, it is far too expensive, and there you think there is a break because it is too expensive. I cannot understand whether it is because it is too cheap or because it is too expensive. Where is the energy settlement broken?
ParlaMint-DK_20161110142137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110142140	After all, the energy conciliation has been modelled a few times, and it says very precisely in the existing energy settlement that there are 350 MW of coastal mills. And the supply we have just experienced has become significantly cheaper than expected by everyone, and right in the tail of it we have had a supply of Warrior Flak, which has also become significantly cheaper. I can easily see that both projects can be carried out without it sacrificing the overall energy balance. As far as the experimental mill pool is concerned, there has been an invitation to tender in which part of the funds has been allocated, and then there are 22 MW left, where I know that there were more applications for the funds. And if it were to be offered again, I can well imagine that there would be coastal projects where it would seem attractive to have a fair settlement on some 22 MW experimental mills. So that is something that has not yet been implemented. The fact that the Minister of Finance has then put his disgusting hand on it and wants to cut that money away is another thing. But it remains in the energy conciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110142242	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110142245	It is not bad will, but I simply do not understand whether the rapporteur really believes that energy conciliation is not going on two legs, on the one hand, trying to agree on how many megawatts we want to produce and, on the other hand, trying to agree on how much money this must cost. Is it so ignorant of what the final price will be, i.e. whether it goes 2 billion? kr. more than what we really expected? Does that mean that it just needs to be implemented? Last week, we saw an example of the fact that you can actually make offshore wind turbines close to land that do not bother anyone and make it cheaper than coastal wind turbines because it is combined with an existing offshore wind farm. And what if you could do the same on the West Coast, so actually achieve cheaper wind energy by making it smarter? Wouldn't that be interesting for Enhedslisten? Or is the aim in itself simply that energy resources should be spent as much as possible, because then we are more ambitious, the more money we spend?
ParlaMint-DK_20161110142334	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110142338	I think the rapporteur should speak nicely about the energy conciliation, because it is actually an ambitious energy reconciliation. And when you compare with the price of Krieger's Flak, you have to say that you have to remember to take the cable with which consumers are going to pay above their network tariff, so that it will be something that ends up at a price for the consumer of about 47 cents per annum. kilowatts over 50,000 full-load hours. This corresponds to the supply that has been around the coastal mills of 47 1⁄2 øre, where there are 300 million. kr. for cable that the project is going to carry. And it is fair to add the two figures to compare those projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110142414	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110142422	Thank you very much to the Minister for his statement, which, as usual, provides a very good overview of the current situation in the climate debate. Since the end, we have to say that the most crucial development has been that we have a global climate agreement and that it has also already been ratified by the necessary number of countries, which together account for at least 55%. of global CO2 In any case, it is a big step and something that we all expect a great deal of, and that is probably the decisive factor for the government's introductory remarks in the statement hitting the head on the nail this time. In fact, the Liberal Alliance agrees with the government in many of the recitals in the statement. Denmark's climate policy really has to play along with the European and global agenda and have as its goal to be truly emission reducing in a global perspective. And no, Denmark must not pursue its own isolated climate policy. It is perhaps even more important now that we consider our efforts very carefully and stop the one-sided Danish expansion, among others. wind turbine power, because our overproduction is still being sold with losses on the European electricity market, so other European countries will have greater opportunities for CO2 It will not benefit anyone or anything, but will damage competitiveness in Denmark, the quota system in the EU and therefore also the real green transition. For the very same reason, the government is also going to slow down the expansion of wind power and abolish the PSO tax, which the Liberal Alliance also agrees with, and since we are now in agreement with the government and the Liberal Alliance, it is a pity that we are not seeing anything more often with the Minister. I can also understand from some of the other parties and energy rapporteurs in the Danish Parliament that they are calling for a certain quality time in the ministry. That then leads me to ask who the government is actually basing its political line on, what majority the government has behind its policy, and when we get clarification on some of the key issues relating to climate and energy policy. What is needed, for example? What is to be done with the PRS tax, and what is to happen with the coastal offshore wind turbines? I hope that the Minister will be able to give some answers later on. However, in any case, Denmark is more than well on the road when it comes to fulfilling our commitments by 2020, and we must, instead of keeping in mind the need to improve competitiveness relative to our neighbouring countries in the European Union. The role of the state in the energy sector must be minimised so that competitiveness can be strengthened, and therefore support for renewable energy must be technology-neutral. However, in the statement, I certainly cannot immediately find a single word about technology neutrality, perhaps because this government too would in the end like to sit at the top of the pyramid and draw a little strings and determine which technologies and projects should be on the green branch and live high and nicely on public tax support crowns. Remember that it is consumers who, through an electricity tax of several hundred percent of the market price, are ultimately paying for the energy policy of current and former governments. However, the Liberal Alliance takes note of the government's climate policy statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110142820	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110142824	I note that the Liberal Alliance is in favour of building nuclear power stations in Denmark. That is why I would like to know whether the Liberal Alliance is aware of what the cost of building an A power station is compared to, for example. the setting up of offshore wind farms or, for that matter, coastal mills.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110142846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110142849	No, I am not one hundred per cent familiar with the price structure, but what I want to say, and as I also said in my speech, is that we are in favour of technology neutrality and are very aware of prices, and that the market must guide which technologies are introduced into the Danish energy market.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110142908	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110142911	I am very pleased about that, because with that answer the Liberal Alliance must jump out as the great supporter of wind power in Denmark, since it is the cheapest form of energy we have at all, according to the two commandments we have received at Krieger's Flak and at the coastal mills. So I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur will then change his attitude towards the coastal wind turbines and will therefore back them up because it is actually the cheapest form of energy, or whether the Liberal Alliance is conducting such a sacred crusade that we should still have nuclear power in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110142938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110142944	Holy crusades are, I believe, something of the past, even in the Liberal Alliance. Technology neutrality is important to us, and we, or at least I, here and now, fully recognise that prices are falling on, among other things. wind power. There are other things about security of supply, etc. that apply when we talk wind turbines, and when we talk coastal offshore wind turbines, there are other things, such as landscape relations, which must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110143011	Thank you to the rapporteur. A brief comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110143017	I would like to know whether the Liberal Alliance is still in favour of having a nuclear power plant in Horsens very close to the place of residence of the leader of the Liberal Alliance, for he has said so in the past. I am sure that there are many Eastern giants who, if it would be the cheapest, would be interested to know whether this is something that the Liberal Alliance is in favour of. There may be a short time for the election campaign, and it would be nice to know what kind of energy policy the Liberal Alliance is running with. But otherwise, what the SF rapporteur has to say is that we can find ourselves in a situation where the Liberal Alliance really becomes a champion of the newest and largest wind turbines or the newest and largest solar parks, because they end up being cheaper than the fossil plants that are now standing. However, I would like a clear answer to the question of nuclear power.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110143108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110143112	I really must promise that nuclear power has made its entry into the Assembly today. I do not know whether I can answer much differently from what I did to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, that we are actually enthusiastic about technology neutrality when we look at the Danish energy sector broadly and that, as in many other connections, we also pay tribute to the forces of the market and also pay close attention to price formation. We fully recognise and also see how price developments are on wind power, but, as I also said to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, there are other things when we talk about wind turbines, among other things. security of supply. There are also health aspects in relation to the people living nearby. They may not do so much if we are talking about actual offshore wind farms, but there can also be landscape considerations to take and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110143200	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110143204	Well, I have to say that there can be a lot of wool in the mouth of a liberal when we discuss nuclear power. There were some fairly clear answers and reservations about wind turbines and how they could bother, but there was little reservation about nuclear power in Horsens, that it could have some negative effects on the local community. I really think it is a pity that we cannot get clear answers from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110143225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110143228	I fully acknowledge and would very much like to do it here from the platform now that there may be some other unfortunate circumstances in relation to nuclear power, but I do not think the discussion is quite so relevant, so I think I will try to dismantle the debate on nuclear power in the Assembly, at least for today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110143248	We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110143256	Thank you, Minister, for the climate policy statement. It is important that we regularly get an overview of where we are in the development of climate policy from the point of view of the Minister, and have a debate on the approach to be taken. Speaking of putting forward a 2025 plan and an agricultural package in the past, the government has put forward a total failure to reach the 40% reduction in 2020 promised by the government in the past. With these initiatives, the reduction in 2020 will be somewhere between 31 and 34 per cent, and it is, in my view, a rather poor style to start by breaking the principle of no-wearing back of the Paris agreement, that is to say, not to launch initiatives that go the wrong way. Does the government have any new moves on the sleeve to compensate for this wearing back? I'm curious to know. After all, Denmark has also agreed in Paris to the initiative called the Mission Innovation Declaration, which is about doubling the research budget over five years, and in my view this should mean doubling the EUDP programme from the then 290 million. kr. to 580 million kr. a year, but instead it has been reduced to 63 million. kr., it has gone exactly the opposite way. When we talk about targets, the Minister spends a lot of time talking about the objectives that we have set out and how long we can wait to start achieving them. The Minister says that the Energy Commission makes its recommendations in relation to the 2030 target at the beginning of 2017. Does the Minister think that immediately afterwards we will start planning the measures that will guide us to achieving the goal, or will we wait a few more years, as the Minister has already said we will have to run on before we have the final objectives? And why does the Minister expect the targets to change? In fact, when you look at targets, I think it is serious, because we already have targets that are not ambitious enough. Climate science tells us that the rich part of the world must be far more ambitious and go for higher goals, because it is we here in the rich part of the world who have the high CO2 citizens and therefore also the greatest obligation to take the lead and reduce the most. We will probably need far more ambitious targets at all levels and therefore also need to get started with the efforts as quickly as possible. It will be more expensive, the longer we wait when we have to achieve a goal far in the future, rather than get started immediately. I also have to comment on and reverse this wind turbine discussion, as Mr. Mikkel Dencker brought it up. Windmills are indeed construction projects like all other construction projects, and I did not quite understand Mr. Mikkel Dencker's logic. It seems to me that then you should also drop building projects, because they only provide jobs for a short period of time; it could be the construction of railways or buildings of all kinds. The Climate Council tells us that we must keep and actually increase the cadence in the conversion to renewable energy, and that is why, in my view, we are talking about jobs that will continue into the next construction project, because until at least 2050 we will have to build a lot of wind turbines every year. In the alternative, we like the PSP scheme. It's screwed up, so we take from the black energy and give to the green energy... some kind of Robin Hood in the energy field. At the same time, the electricity price is reasonable and, moreover, comparable to the countries with which we are usually compared. So there are also incentives to save energy. We propose maintaining the PSP scheme, but adjusting it so that it can be approved by the European Union, and then implementing targeted tax changes that can support a much more widespread use of heat pumps of all sizes. However, in order to lift that discussion, as several of the previous rapporteurs have done, I would like to appeal to us now to have the tax and subsidy analysis that has been going on for years. We owe this to the actors in the energy market, we owe it to the whole conversion of the energy system into renewable energy. It is important for us in the Alternative that we take the climate crisis and the Paris Agreement very seriously in Denmark. The agreement is fantastic because the objectives are ambitious and the whole world is involved, and it is the new guide for everything we do up to 2050 and probably also a few years later.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110143749	We thank the rapporteur. No brief comments have been asked, and that is why we move on to Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110143802	Thank you for that, President. After all, it is tempting to take the opportunity today, when the Marrakech climate summit has started, where we have had ratification of the Paris Agreement, in which we have been made crystal clear in every respect, that the climate is heading in the right direction, but not at all fast enough, to try to beat the government a little, because it has made Danish climate and energy policy a complete mess for a year now. Nobody knows what's gonna happen, why it's gonna happen, no one knows what you can count on and can't count on. The Left does not have its parliamentary basis in place, our offer sails, and it is in every sense a completely hopeless situation. This could be discussed at length, and it is also tempting to do so and to criticise the government. But I really do want to make a completely different speech: a joyous speech about the offer we have now taken home, the second in a few months, which shows with which acceleration we have succeeded, among other things. Denmark together with a number of other ambitious countries to drive technology development on renewable energy off so quickly and so significantly that we see falling prices on wind, not least sea wind, far, far beyond what we in our imagination could possibly imagine just 6 months ago. 37.2 cents sounds the winning bid on Krieger's Flak. That's 60%. under what we thought just four years ago. It is competitive with other forms of energy, and it looks incredibly promising in relation to what land prices will develop into. Today, I dare to make the prediction that when we have to make our next energy reconciliation for 2020-2030, I believe that the so-called renewable energy subsidies will not be necessary at all. In fact, it has to be said that already today it is not subsidies, contrary to what everyone is saying. This is because we have put together an aid scheme in which we want mills to be paid for in 8-12 years, depending on the type of mill, instead of over the lifetime, and that is why we have an investment dive at the beginning. It is no longer about green conversion, it is about the investment profile, and let us therefore welcome it and hope that it could inspire the government to drop its savings catalogue and try to get back on the horse a little, not just for the sake of climate and Denmark's reputation out there and strength in the climate negotiations, but also because there are so many Danish jobs at stake. May I just mention two figures. Currently, two wind turbines are set up per hour around the world. Now renewable energy is the form of energy that is most invested in Europe, in China and many, many other large Every fourth of the windmills are shipped out from Esbjerg Harbour. Surely we should be proud of all of that, and we should be fighting for it to continue to be so, and that the tens of thousands of private jobs created throughout the country, not least in rural areas, are a common cause, instead of all the trouble and squabbling and bitterness that the government has to face. Could we not have some enthusiasm again, a little joy that we have set a record once again in this country and that we can look forward, if we keep our ambitions high, to continue the development for many years to come, also in the next energy conciliation, where the ambition must of course be to bring prices down even further, to create the smart market that will enable us to use our renewable energy even better, even more efficiently, even stronger and thereby maintain our green leadership. That is why I have three specific questions for the Minister, where I hope he will lift the veil. Question 1. Many have mentioned the need to get more electricity into the heating sector. We have been talking about this for at least eight years now, including in my time as Minister for Energy and Climate Affairs. However, could we not agree to ease the electric heating tax and get it done quickly so that we can get much more green electricity into the heating sector and thus cheaper heat for consumers and greener heat and large CO2 Question 2. One of the areas which has been sailing completely for two years now is the area of energy saving. Could the Minister now, when the district heating sector is apparently going to say that they will not stand by the agreement, reveal a little bit whether it is true that they do not want to, and what does the government really think is going to happen with the energy savings effort? We have this starting point: we are very flexible with how we achieve our savings targets, but we assume that the government stands by the objectives of the energy agreement. Finally, I cannot help asking the climate, supply and energy minsters, no, the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, I believe that it is saying that it is changing a little over time in relation to the ambitions of renewable energy. Now we have a discussion about the coastal mills, but beyond that there is a huge wind power outage in the coming years because the old wind turbines are being worn out and have to be replaced. Is the government going to replace the old wind turbines that will retire over the next 5-10 years with new wind turbines? These were my three questions to the Minister, thanking him for his statement and hoping for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110144346	There are some brief comments. It's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr first.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110144351	I would like to thank the rapporteur, because the rapporteur was the climate minister back in 2012, when the energy agreement was made, where there was just a high level of ambition and where we just delivered that new mills should be set up in Denmark. That is why I just want to send back my thanks for the enthusiasm that has been expressed that there have been low bids and these are historically low bids, both at Krieger's Flak, but also the coastal mills, where the price is also very low. As the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, pointed out, it is so that if you also calculate the pipelines, they are level. So I'm just gonna send my thanks back. It is not a question, it is a comment, but I think it is appropriate to recognise the high level of ambition of the previous government, because that is, in fact, what has laid the foundations for what is coming today. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110144439	But it is also short remarks, so it is entirely by the book. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110144444	Yes, but I would like to send that thank you back to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, who helped to make that settlement, and who pushed it in the right direction. After all, it was all the parties, apart from the Liberal Alliance, that supported that agreement and that can therefore also take credit for the fact that we have come so far and created so many jobs. And then one could hope that it could also remove some of the acidity from not least the faces of the Danish People's Party and the government.They must also rejoice today with the rest of us. It would be nice to have a little more of that kind of porridge, if I may say so, in the discussion of these issues, which have been a little too acidic in recent months.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110144534	Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110144538	The grief certainly does not come from the side of the government or the Left. On the contrary, we are extremely pleased that Kriegers Flak can deliver the world's cheapest bid for a offshore wind farm. It is absolutely fantastic, and this confirms the point of the Left, that if we can set up offshore wind turbines that do not bother anyone, then there is no need to drag them all the way up to the coast, so they have to be on the beach, perhaps at a price that is slightly higher. We can always discuss it with wires and the ditto and the date. Despite that, if it costs the same in round figures, would the rapporteur not agree with the Left that it would be more desirable to get the mills further into the water so that they do not bother people? We are extremely pleased that you can have them 15 km out in the water on Krieger's Flak, but we are very concerned about having to put them on the West Coast, by the way, right at this time when electricity is not really in demand. That is also why it is a little wrong when the rapporteur says that they will be dropped. We have proposed postponing them both in time and in location. We are very excited about the low price. Can we also have it on the West Coast, would the rapporteur not agree that it would actually be better if we could get them a little further into the water?
ParlaMint-DK_20161110144647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110144650	After all, it was nice to see the foot-and-mouths going up rather than down on the Left's rapporteur. In other words, it might be that the Minister would make it clear to us whether these prices, if you have to compare them actually with the landings etc., are the same prices, or whether the coastal ones are a little more expensive or a little cheaper. I understood that the coastal regions are still a little cheaper, but less cheap than we thought. I'll admit that, sir. Thomas Danielsen. So what is our challenge is that, in addition to the price, there is also Denmark's credibility as a provider and state at stake here. There is also a time perspective, because if we postpone them in time, we will have some problems, because there are so many old wind turbines that will fall out over the next 10 years. That is why we cannot simply postpone it indefinitely. For my sake, however, one could check whether the coastal regions of the project that is now under way can be achieved without major delays and without major price increases. There is, of course, evidence of this, as the prices of Krieger's Flak have become.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110144751	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110144757	Kriegers Flaks mills are cheaper because they are built for an existing project. That's why you can't compare them to you. But you can just say that they are cheaper because they are built for an existing project because you save some wiring costs. The reason why the mills you want to produce on the West Coast are so expensive is that you want to place them in a virginal place completely unwound by mills in advance. There might be some point in perhaps discussing making an extension on the West Coast at a time when you will need electricity. At the same time, we will ensure that we achieve a cheaper green transition, and that is what the Left is doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110144836	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110144839	I believe that the best way to ensure a cost-effective green transition is to have a common goal; it is only a success to build on renewable energy when it is at the same time the cheapest, as has been achieved in Denmark, so we share that goal, that there is stability in all tenders. This requires you to be able to trust the agreements that are being made. And if you can do that, I would prefer you to sit in the conciliation circle and have taken this discussion instead of the government standing up for a press conference and canceling the energy settlement and dropping the supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110144906	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110144909	I very much agree with virtually everything the rapporteur of the Radicals has said from the platform today. The rapporteur calls for enthusiasm on the part of the government. I believe that the easiest solution to this is to change government. Then you could get some commitment, some enthusiasm back into the green transition. I think that would be the easiest solution to that. One aspect I'd like to hear about is the PSO. I know that the rapporteur has looked at what is happening in Europe and what could be the solution. I think it would be very interesting if we could be inspired by something that has already been approved or is in process in other EU countries. I would like to know whether the rapporteur thinks that it is the Czech model or the German model, or what kind of model it would be best if we were to get a replacement for our current good PSO system, where all electricity consumers contribute to the green transition. We need to ensure something where there is some balance in it, and that is why I would like to know what kind of a European model the rapporteur thinks is the best solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110145012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110145015	Thank you. Let me start by saying that the first half of Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's analysis of a new government I fully share. As far as the PSO solution is concerned, it is, in principle, our view that we should maintain the current PSP and then develop it with precisely a solution that is acceptable to the European Union. We have first been on the Czech and Austrian models. In fact, we would have liked to have seen this, and we have put it in our 2025 plan, that the PRS might be kept for business, and then put it for citizens on the Finance Act. Something suggests, after we have asked the technical questions about it, that it is not so easy to separate, and therefore I think that the simplest solution today would be to keep the PSP system and then offer it approx. 50 MW of renewable energy on the German market, which will make it EU-sustainable. It also has the advantage of strengthening cross-border competition. After all, Germany must offer us even more renewable energy, and that would actually be a very simple way of doing so. So maybe it would be the easiest.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110145124	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110145128	I am very pleased about that answer, and I am also pleased that there were other rapporteurs present, so that that recognition might also spread to, for example, the United Kingdom. Danish People's Party. A solution that opens the borders a little and does not have too many border barriers on electricity at the borders could be something that could enable us to maintain our current system, where everyone contributes, and then put a smaller part on competition. So I am very pleased with that answer. I would really like to hear from the rapporteur how we are going to make that view widely applicable to several parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110145159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110145202	At least I can guarantee you, Mr. Knox. Søren Egge Rasmussen, that I bring it wherever I go and stand, also as the financial rapporteur, to the ministers responsible. That is our preferred solution, that is what we are working for. Having said that, we will not rule out a so-called financial law solution if we can find the right funding and can feel the certainty that there will then be the means to invest in renewable energy beyond 2020. So it is such a plan B. We can hear that there are many, including the major parties in the Folketing, who want the PRS on the Finance Act, but then at least one important thing must be that we also ensure the next energy reconciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110145240	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110145255	I think it is positive and good that we have the opportunity to discuss climate change, not least while the Marrakech Summit is now under way. There is no doubt that the level of ambition from Paris should be followed up. After yesterday's elections in the United States, I can be concerned that the Americans are now willing to continue their commitment to Paris. It must be said that there is a great deal of uncertainty about this, but we are still allowed to hope that the new President will be wiser along the way, and therefore it is also useful with the government's climate policy statement. But I have to say that I am a little left with a strange feeling when I read the statement. Because it does not contain a single specific national proposal or new measures to reduce climate emissions, and it is well to note at a time when Denmark has to deliver both in the quota sector and in the non-quota sector. At the moment, the agricultural package is moving in the wrong direction and with the government's 2025 plan we now have to see which parts of it might become reality and we end up in the quotad sector on a CO2 SF was a member of a government that set the level of ambition significantly higher, namely 40%. in 2020, and not only did we set the level of ambition that the rapporteur of the Left would otherwise claim on the platform, as an objective, but we also delivered the instruments: a climate agreement in 2012, which made it possible to deliver concrete tools so that we could reach 40%. in 2020 and at one point we were even over-implementing the 40%, over. It was ambitious, it was sensible and it helped create jobs in Denmark, but also to ensure that Denmark could be exporting to the rest of the countries. Now we have a target of perhaps 31 per cent, and there is nothing in the climate policy statement that shows how the government will then ensure that we reach the target of 40 per cent. in 2020. In relation to the non-quota sector, it is indeed the case that Denmark will be above the so-called reduction path for the non-quota sector by 2020, and what does that mean? This means that we will have more emissions from agriculture, transport and households than what should actually be the ambition. The only reason why this does not bring us into conflict with EU rules is, of course, that Denmark has put part of the bank in the previous years. The bad result for 2020 is due, among other things, to: The agricultural package, which the government has not been willing to compensate for. On the other hand, it has to be said that the statement is full of reflections on how Denmark's climate commitments can be wiped out in relation to other countries, especially EU countries. It's not that all these flexible mechanisms are necessarily a bad idea. I admit that, but there's a stark contrast between the many hopes here and the noisy silence in terms of national actions and plans. The government itself writes in the statement: • The big challenge for Denmark is coming up towards 2030 • The big challenge for Denmark. I therefore actually believe that the climate challenge is big enough here and now, but I am glad that we have an EU that is pushing Denmark with climate targets that even the government cannot ignore. I think that we clearly have a government which is by no means realistic, but which just hopes that something will emerge. When it comes to the quota sector, the government hopes that it can be said that if you are a little bit naughty you can reach in terms of warm air. I can see in the government's statement that it has the decency to introduce a principle in relation to the fact that, in principle, the EU's quota system means that a higher Danish emissions in the quota sector are neutralised by a lower emissions elsewhere in Europe. I would like to see it actually be nice that I could get the Minister to confirm that a major Danish emissions into the quota sector over the next many years involve a major emissions in all things in the world rather than the theoretical talk about something in principle. Then I also have four questions for the Minister, with whom I am left after reading the climate statement, and one is in relation to the PSO, where in the government statement on page 7 there is something that I think is close to being a little lax with the truth. It says that the abolition of the PSO may I think it would be nice for the Minister to confirm that for all calculations it will show that what the government has proposed leads to a significant increase in emissions by 2020. The Climate Council, which is the government's own council, has said that it is 3.1 million. t CO2 emissions in the 1990 base year. Then you can discuss back and forth how to count and how to do it exactly, but the figure is large, and this is probably the biggest step backwards in the history of Denmark with the abolition of the PSO. So much for Paris. Does the Minister agree with that assessment or will he maintain the misleading wording of the statement? That was one question. The second question is in relation to the tax and subsidy analysis. I know that it almost seems a joke that we should continue to talk about it in the Parliamentary Committee and from the Parliamentary Chair, but now it is mentioned several times in the statement, because it has to form the basis for an overall wise adjustment of energy taxes, and I fully agree with that. But, as you know, the government has only wanted to publish three out of six partial analyses and, on that basis, has only proposed one thing: the abolition of the PSO without any regard for the climate and without ensuring coherence with, for example, the environment. the rules for the use of surplus heat, where lower charges, including the PRS on electricity, reinforce the problems. In other words, once again, we are talking about politics without coherence. But that is fair enough, we will probably not change that today, but I would just like a clear answer from the Minister to the very simple question: is the rest of the tax and subsidy analysis ready? If so, when will it be published? That was Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring (H-l) on behalf of the Question No 1, by Mr McMahon 3 is that the statement correctly notes that the Paris Agreement will provide new outlets for Danish companies. I fully agree with that. Some of what has been a great success in Danish exports has, of course, been our new green energy solutions, and it is partly because the Paris Agreement states that all parties must adjust their ambitions upwards over time, that is to say, that they must constantly become more ambitious. Then I wonder whether the Minister may have had the same idea as me: what if other countries choose to follow the example of the Danish Government and they clearly downgrade their level of ambition, as Denmark has done, instead of what is in the Paris Agreement, that is no backsliding? So Danish companies don't get that prize, or what? The fourth question is in relation to energy research funds, for the Government's statement states that there is an ambition to increase Danish energy research funds by 2020. For the time being, we have only seen significant cuts year by year, which we have managed to correct in part in the negotiations on research reserves, and I would therefore like to ask the Minister: why does the government not want to allocate the funds needed to achieve its own objective, that is, when the statement says that it wants to reach 580 million? kr. By 2020? Is it because you want to say that you want to, but you are not willing to dedicate the funds to it? I just want to say quite clearly and quite frankly that I would like to offer my support for an amendment to the budget bill by the government, which earmarks this money in the research reserve. How hard can it be? Yes, it's obviously really hard for the government to do something about the climate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110150137	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Since I do not see other rapporteurs, it is the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110150148	Thank you to the President and also to the rapporteurs for a substantive debate. I am well aware that in this area there are some corners of the forward-looking energy policy and climate policy where we do not entirely agree. And as Danish Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, listening to the debate here today, you may be pleased that at least one enemy image has grown, and that is Donald Trump. In fact, when you look at our climate policy and also at the statement, I think there is reason to welcome the fact that by 2020 we will over-fulfil the commitments we have made in the EU context. I also agree with Jens Joel and others who have pointed out that when you look forward to 2030, there are challenges to be solved. And with the interim objective that we have been given by the European Commission of 39 per cent reduction in 2030 in the non-quota area, there is a challenge that needs to be addressed here. But I would like to urge you to perhaps come up with a little bit of a mood, at least my mood is not wrong, I would like to say to Mr. Martin Lidegaard. I look forward to attending the Marrakech Climate Summit next week, and I also welcome and do so on behalf of Denmark and am quite proud of what we have actually achieved. When you look at the climate area, Denmark is a pioneering country, and we will continue to be. Several people have mentioned research, and I can just say that it is the government's aim that we live up to what we have committed ourselves to with the Mission Innovation and our participation there • 580 million. kr. And it is also my immediate assessment today that when we get to see the final figure and the amount of EUPD when it all comes together in 2017, that amount will be greater than it is in 2016. When some people point out here that Uha, Denmark is far behind, I can just say that about a month ago a new analysis came from what is called the trilemma index, and there is Denmark as number one. So we are the country in the world which, in terms of both parameters such as security of supply and sustainability, is at the top of the list. I would also like to say that it is nothing new that we are doing so. In relation to the parameters underlying the study, we have actually been there for a long time, quite advanced in the field there, and I am delighted that we continue to do so. Carsten Bach asked when the energy contracting parties would have more meetings. I would like to invite you to all the meetings that the rapporteur would like to take part in. But it is also the case that discussions are currently taking place and there is also the Liberal Alliance with regard to the financing of energy and climate policy. There we are currently discussing the question of how to deal with PSOs. It is a subject whose importance is paramount, and it is also a debate in which the Liberal Alliance is involved. Carsten Bach also raised the question of technology neutrality. I would just like to say that I share the point of departure of the Liberal Alliance, namely that it may be sensible for us, instead of sitting in a circle of parties to the agreement and energy rapporteurs, to assess whether it is now solar energy, wind energy, biomass, or what kind of renewable energy we need to invest in in the future, to allow the market to solve it. I believe that the market here will be much better at solving the task and challenge, and that is why I believe that what we are going to see also when we have to write the energy agreement together in the future is that the supply models that are technology neutral become so that you go to the market and say, for example, who can deliver 100 MW of electricity, and who can do it in the cheapest way? Of course, we must continue to demand that it be green and sustainable and that it be sustainable. Christian Poll addressed the challenges in relation to the 39-percent target and more than suggested that he wanted Denmark to go further and that we were higher than 39 per cent. in 2030. Here it is to say that the objective of the 39%. Well, it's not quite clear yet. Negotiations in the European Union are still ongoing. There will be negotiations in the circle of energy ministers, and there will probably also be a discussion in the European Council afterwards before this is finally concluded. And from the government's point of view, it makes sense for us to start implementing this task, and we will do so as soon as the final distribution plan is in place. And until then we wait to reflect on what will happen next. It is also the case that in 2018 the European Commission will consider how far the EU targets are in relation to the 11⁄2 and 2 degrees targets and whether further action is necessary. Martin Lidegaard asked a number of questions, including: If more electricity is needed in the heating sector it is surely the desire for more heat pumps. It is a wish that the government and I share with Martin Lidegaard. It is clear that, in relation to the PSO, we are getting a little bit out of the way, and it is quite true, as another rapporteur also said, I think it was Jens Joel who said that it is only a part of the way, but it is, after all, a beginning. And I agree that this has not been done. And in many ways, more heat pumps will help to ensure that district heating in the forward-looking energy image also has a central location, including that consumers will ultimately be able to pay for district heating. As is happening today, there are some inappropriate ways in which some works choose to act, where they act solely on the basis of what are taxes and what are not taxes, and not on the basis of what might be a more socio-economically sensible way of acting. Then there is the question of energy savings, as Martin Lidegaard also mentioned. In fact, tomorrow morning, we will have a debate among the energy reconciliation parties on energy savings, and it will also be part of the discussions we have on PSOs. And I expect that we will have an agreement with the country. I would say that it has been too long, but that is not least because it has not been possible to get an agreement on PSO. When it comes to it, I am sure that the latter will be the case. Then there are a number of other questions. Pia Olsen Dyhr raises the question of the tax subsidy analysis: When can we expect it to come? To that I would just like to say that this is a matter on which I am working hard and on which my predecessor also worked. Fortunately, three of the six analyses have been successful, and I can say that I am in a good dialogue with the tax minister on the last three analyses. I also have a very clear feeling that the tax minister is now in the room that two of the analyses will also come in the near future. I therefore very much agree that this is a necessary basis for us to be able to take the right forward-looking decisions on how to bring together the entire climate and energy policy, which is closely linked to the issue of taxation. Pia Olsen Dyhr also raises the question of energy research. To that I can just say that the government's objective is, as I said before, that next year we will spend more money on the EUDP than we have done this year, and we also have the forward-looking goal of reaching 580 million by 2020. kr., which will be a doubling compared to what we spend this year at EUDP. I think that is a very good objective. The government is also very pleased that it has succeeded in joining the "Mission Innovation" initiative, which is a worldwide initiative, and next week we will be meeting in the context of the Marrakech climate summit and discussing just how we will further develop the very, very large project and the great task that is there. Pia Olsen Dyhr also raises the question of whether the fact that we are now changing the PSP does not have any consequences in relation to the emissions of CO2 To that is to say, it is clear that when you move the PSP from being a tax on our all-together electricity bills, both corporate and private households, it makes electricity cheaper, and that means that there will be greater opportunities to use electricity, and so electricity will in a number of areas crowd out other forms of fossil fuels. I think that is actually positive. I also think it is positive that we will have the opportunity to use more of the green electricity in larger parts of our society, so that Danish consumers and Danish companies will benefit to a greater extent from the green electricity and that it can be used in Denmark rather than exported, so that Danish companies will also benefit from the fact that we have such a high share of wind energy in the total electricity consumption. We were actually up to last year that we produced so much electricity based on wind energy that it could cover 42 per cent. of total consumption. There is good reason to rejoice. Finally, I would like to mention that several speakers have referred to the supply of Krieger's Flak. I would like to say that I welcome and was very, very, very pleasantly surprised by the offer on the 37.2 cents per. kilowatt-hour. This means that wind energy now comes down to a price that is really, really reasonable, not least the ocean-based wind energy, which has been very expensive. When you look back just to 2010, you can see that at the big offshore wind turbine project between Anholt and Djursland the price was 1 DKK. and 5 øre per. kilowatt-hour, it was 77 cents at Horns Rev 3, and now we're down to 37,2 cents. This is a billion-dollar saving. This will help to ensure that not least electricity produced on offshore winds becomes competitive, and I fully agree with the radical rapporteur, Martin Lidegaard, that this means that we will probably see that a large part of the wind energy expansion is going out at sea. That is also the reason why the government has pointed out to cancel the coastal supply and replace it with some ocean wind on the a little longer track, and this supply shows that it is an absolutely sustainable path to go. But once again I would like to thank you for the debate. Thanks to the rapporteurs for a great many good speeches, and when we look at the long track, there is still enough in the climate area to bring us together rather than separating us.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110151335	We have a number of brief comments and the first is from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110151340	I would like to follow up a little on the PSO issue, because I kind of agree with the Minister that we need people to use more wind power, which is, in fact, more environmentally sensible than if they use electricity from, for example, electricity. coal. However, our challenge with the abolition of the PSO is that we will see an increase in electricity consumption, which is why the Climate Council also says that there will be an increase in CO2 emissions. If you want to prevent this and at the same time ensure that people can access electricity, you can make compensatory measures in other ways, such as: heat pumps in district heating and taxes on, for example: coal and oil. Will the government be willing to look at compensatory measures so that we do not see that we suddenly get an increase in CO2 emissions precisely because of the abolition of the PSO?
ParlaMint-DK_20161110151441	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110151442	Now I think it is sensible to hold such negotiations around the negotiating table, but I agree with the rapporteur that removing the PSP means that we will see better opportunities for heat pumps in district heating plants. In fact, I think it would be a huge gain for us to go in that direction. We're going to use more green electricity in larger parts of society. I also think we will see companies that will move away from using fossil fuels and will switch to using electricity when the price of electricity becomes more competitive.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110151515	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110151516	Now it is difficult to take it in the negotiating room, since the Minister does not call for negotiations, because then I came to discuss it here. I think the great challenge is quite obvious: the government is coming to the end of the PSO, and it is on the basis of a tax and subsidy analysis, of which only three out of six partial analyses have been presented. And it's not because I want to wander around in the hot porridge. I have noted that the Minister is working on the matter. However, if we are to do this in a sensible way and get taxes and subsidies to work properly, in other words to support our climate, then we need to make it public. And I just want to ask, is it ready? And if it's not ready, when will it be ready?
ParlaMint-DK_20161110151558	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110151559	The short answer is: work is being done on the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110151604	The next one to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110151607	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for the debate today. Now I have spent part of my speaking time criticising some of the things I disagreed with the government, and so I would just like to give the Minister the opportunity here to highlight the initiative that the Minister himself believes will have the greatest beneficial effect on climate policy. What will the government suggest that benefits the climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20161110151634	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110151635	On Tuesday, we carried out an invitation to tender at Krieger's Flak. It's a huge task. And even if the price has fallen, it is still, in economic terms, something that costs a great deal of money. It is a park that will supply 600,000 households with their annual electricity consumption. It is a park on which there is, moreover, a broad consensus in the Folketing as part of the Energy Agreement 2012, and there are also now tasks relating to the offshore wind farm in Esbjerg. It is also in progress and will provide an additional 400,000-500,000 households. Denmark is in the middle of a green transition, day by day the share of renewable energy in the Danish energy supply is increasing and when you look at the targets we have for 2020 under the Energy Agreement, we reach much, much further.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110151725	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110151726	Sorry, I may have made myself unclear, because it is true that we have agreed a lot of things. That's very good, too. The government has done some things that have increased our CO2 and then I just ask: is there one thing the government has done since it came to that has raised our ambition level or reduced CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20161110151750	Thank you for the question. Denmark has a high level of ambition. We continue to have that level of ambition. However, it is also clear that when a growth package is implemented, whether it is under the current government, or whether it is about the two previous growth packages implemented under the previous government, it can lead to a short period of increase in CO2 but still it is so that Denmark is completely, completely at the forefront, and we will go much further by 2020 than we are obliged to in relation to the agreements that are in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110151820	Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110151822	Thank you. That is a little in line with what Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr was talking about. If, as is the government's plan, we now have the PSO tax removed and thus get a very low electricity price, is it not quite understood that a large part of the incentive for energy savings will actually fall away? This is one of the things that I am calling for from earlier in the debate at the Danish People's Party, that is to say that we will have a much greater effort in terms of energy savings. How will the government react to that mechanism? I should also like to hear what the Minister said to my question about whether we should get started now that we have a figure called 39%. What I think is relevant is whether it comes down to 38%. Or do you expect it to come down to 32%, or maybe it gets taller? It's important to know if it's worth it to get started. Does the Minister have any idea that we can get a much lower figure? And if not, isn't it just an idea to get started as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20161110151940	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110151942	Finally, there is the fact that these negotiations have not yet been completed, but I do not expect a much lower figure. Denmark is, and remains, a prosperous country in which we will have a relatively high commitment at all times. But let's just wait for this to be completed. This is a task that must start from 2020 until 2030, and as we look forward to 2020, we can see that Denmark is well ahead of the targets compared to the 20% target of 2020. Then we must start with the commitment towards 2030. In relation to energy savings, the answer is that saving energy can be an answer at any time, and we will also have a large number of energy saving measures in the future. Tomorrow we will have a discussion in the circle of conciliation parties, and all the indications are that last year we have spent more than 1.5 billion. kr. to implement energy savings. In the future, we will also implement energy savings, but the government will also focus on how this can be done in as efficient and cost-effective a way as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110152046	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110152047	Yes, but a cost-effective way is precisely that if the energy price is where it is today, you feel that you can save a lot by implementing energy savings. That saving will be much less if we get a lower electricity price, which means that the principle that it should be able to pay for itself will be extremely watered down. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20161110152110	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110152112	This is the way, and thank you for the question, that the PRS should succeed in getting an agreement about it will no longer be part of the electricity bill, and then the electricity price will fall by between 20 øre and 25 øre for a private household and about half for a company. Despite this, with the large number of other taxes and VAT, etc. on the electricity bill, there will continue to be an advantage in implementing energy savings.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110152143	Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110152146	Thank you. I was just inspired by sir. Jens Joel, who asked a simple question, whether the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate can mention one measure the government has taken that will reduce Denmark's CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20161110152202	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110152203	Thank you for the question. By 2020, as I have said on previous issues, we will be much longer than we are obliged to. Therefore, there is not a huge need for Denmark to take further action here and now, but we also know that towards 2030 there is a challenge. We are very aware of this challenge, and we shall begin this task as soon as it is distributed among the countries. We are waiting for this, like a large number of other European countries, to be finally allocated so that we can see what opportunities there are for reaching the commitment by 2030, which things can be counted with and cannot be counted with.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110152244	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110152245	I hear the answer in such a way that, for the first 11⁄2 years, the government has not taken a single step to reduce CO2 That is fair talk. But the next question has to be, because now I hear in the optimistic tone of the government that something is going to be done at some point, whether the Minister can mention one measure which the government is considering that will reduce CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110152317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110152318	Well, we will also look forward to what opportunities there are. I can just say at the latest with the invitation to tender this week that there are major tasks in the field of energy: the offshore park at Krieger's Flak and the other actions that lie in the 2012 energy agreement that we are jointly implementing. I think there is good sense in that. Then we have also finally established an Energy Commission, and the Commission's task is to look at how we are linking energy policy forwards. We're also waiting to get good ideas from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110152350	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110152352	In other words, we have a climate policy statement in which the sender is the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, and we can then see that there is not one thing that the government has done that is drawing the climate action in the right direction, nor is anything planned that is outside the energy reconciliation that the government is doing so much to undermine. In such a situation, I would like to make a call to the government, because it is new that there is a Climate Council which, according to the Climate Act, is to advise the Folketing. And there are among others. a proposal from the Climate Council, which recommends that we can promote heat pumps and avoid socio-economic misinvestments in biomass installations by lowering the tax on electricity for heating by 30 cents per year. kilowatt-hour. The report does not reply directly to this; it simply states that you want to abolish the PSO. I would like to hear specific from the Minister: is this not a very good proposal to promote heat pumps?
ParlaMint-DK_20161110152456	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110152457	Thank you. It is certainly a very good proposal, but any proposal must somehow find funding. And the abolition of the electricity tax will require funding and money elsewhere. That's why I can't just stand here and as Enhedslisten print coverless checks. I would like to acknowledge that there is a challenge in relation to heat pumps. After all, the climate statement also shows that part of the challenge has been solved by removing the PSO tax. That's where we've reached half the way. Then I think we should try to sit down in the circle of conciliation parties and look at the possibilities for reaching the remainder of the road so that heat pumps become a more central part of the conversion at the decentralised cogeneration plants.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110152541	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110152543	I believe that the energy conciliation circle can solve many problems, but that requires us to be convened for meetings, and that has been lacking since April. We are very happy to provide solutions to this, and I have also noted that there are some costs of biogas that explode without the government intervening so far. Adjustments can easily be made in the energy conciliation, which can enable us to promote heat pumps, and I look forward to the Minister being called upon to hold discussions as soon as possible so that we can find a solution to this, because I am sure that the energy conciliation circle can come up with things that can have a positive effect on the climate, when the government itself is unable to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110152623	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110152624	Thank you for the question. There's a meeting in the energy reconciliation circle tomorrow morning at 9:00. 7.00, where we will also discuss biogas and energy savings and other things. But I am still of the opinion in relation to heat pumps that it is sensible to invest and we can try to look at what opportunities there are. In fact, earlier this year we have looked at travel teams and demonstration projects and other measures, and resources are also allocated to look at heat pumps in order to allocate some money for energy savings. So it is a process that we are in, and I would like to continue this process.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110152655	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place on Tuesday 15 November 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110152713	The debate is open. Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110152736	Thank you for that, President. I should immediately like to express my regret to the Minister for Tax that this debate will probably be a little less enthusiastic and highly fluctuating in relation to the debate we have just had on climate objectives and to save the planet. This is a bag of mixed candy, but they can be important enough individually, and out of respect for that we must of course treat them properly. I do not want to go through all the elements in a slavish way, as what the President also mentioned in the title are very many different elements, but I would like to highlight a few points. Among other things: We in the Social Democratic Party have been particularly concerned about the change that came of a payroll tax in some schools, vocational schools and production schools, where it can be said, as it were, that a practice was changed following a European judgment. Some signals were changed, and that meant that some of these schools got an extra bill. We are pleased that we want to help deal with this proposal, and that is why we naturally also support this, which is a step in the right direction and which makes it clear that education should not be subject to the payroll tax. After all, the Minister of Taxation himself writes in a letter to my colleague Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, that the Ministry of Children, Education and Gender Equality is examining the need for further compensation and, if necessary, how it can be done so that they do not suffer. And from the Social Democratic Party, at least the signal must be that we want these changes not to be held back by those schools. Then I would also like to say something about the element that concerns ships that are docked in, among other things. the port nearby, which is polluting if they use their bunker oil to operate the facilities on board. There you can actually get a big environmental gain if you connect them to the flow from land. This is something that has also been done on other ships, and now it is proposed that it should apply to all commercial ships. We in the Social Democratic Party think this is a step in the right direction, environmentally speaking, and we would like to support that. Then, of course, there are some things about better opportunities to control compared to some of the biomass that is burned off. And it can be said that the simplification that is happening here is actually seen as a step towards making it easier for SKAT to check whether the calorific value that you give up and what you are actually burning are in line with each other and that you are therefore paying the right taxes. It is, of course, a simplification, one can say, and thus an increased possibility for SKAT to control, and we think that is also a good idea. Finally, there is also the element of block wagons and EU registration fee, and the fact that it may be a bust for road hauliers if they run the risk of being stopped down through Europe and are not allowed to drive on because they do not have the EU papers in place. There is a need to be able to make special transports, so we are in favour of an adaptation being made here. Against this backdrop and, of course, with the reservation that questions may be asked during committee proceedings and various other matters, the Social Democrats intend to enter into positive discussions to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110153057	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Van der Klaauw. Carsten Kudsk, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110153105	Today we are discussing Bill No. L 29, which deals with several different things. The first thing I want to mention is what concerns the change that comes from the European Union. It is about companies having to report if they receive State aid that has a value of more than EUR 500 000. We can actually see the reason why Danish companies have managed their reports to SKAT. However, elsewhere in the EU it lags behind with state aid reports. So the Danish People's Party can support that element. Another element of the proposal is the reduction in the cost of electricity from land to small commercial ships and easier access to road haulage in the European Union. It is measures that make it easier to operate in Denmark, and Dansk Folkeparti also wants to support it very much. We would also like to comment on the consultation responses. The Danish People's Party has read them and seen that in Danish Business and Danish District Heating there is a concern that unnecessary administrative costs will be imposed, as they believe that it is information that SKAT already has today. That is why we in the Group of the European People's Party would like to go into more detail on the answers to the questions put by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. With these comments, Dansk Folkeparti can support bill no. L 29.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110153227	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110153238	Thank you. Like many other tax laws, this bill is a mess of a lot of different things. I would like to start by highlighting the part that is concerned with wagons. The reason why we are addressing this challenge with blockcars is because we have become aware that Danish carriers have had some major challenges driving around other EU countries because their blockcars have not been registered in the vehicle register. It is, of course, inappropriate for us to have a competitive disadvantage compared to others, and that is why the government has taken the initiative to have block wagons registered in the vehicle register. It also reduces the burden on businesses, so we are very pleased to be able to help here and address one of the problems that are actually experienced in a profession and to resolve it for the benefit of all of us. In addition, the legislative proposal implements a number of the adaptations to the legislation required by the European Commission's State aid reform, which modernises the EU's State aid policy. This is because we want to ensure that illegal aid is not granted in other EU countries, and this must be done by providing greater transparency about state aid. The companies that receive more than EUR 500 000 in aid per year. year, will be required to report it to SKAT. The legislative proposal will also make the process of approving aid schemes more flexible. In addition, an amendment is proposed to the Law on the taxation of wages and salaries, etc. The amendment is intended to exempt universities, vocational schools and production schools etc. In the case of payroll tax on education. In this way, they are taxed like other educational establishments which are exempt from this tax. It is also proposed to amend the compensation clause for the supply of electricity from land to ships. This has been mentioned earlier by the Socialist rapporteur. This will create better conditions for smaller commercial ships to choose environmentally friendly electricity rather than fossil fuels. Thus, all commercial ships at berth in port will receive electricity at a rate of 0.4 cents per annum. kilowatt-hour. Finally, but not least, the draft law contains a number of technical amendments to the law on the taxation of nitrogen oxides, which should make it easier to make a more precise statement of the tax. On behalf of the Left, I would like to say that we naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110153500	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110153518	This is, of course, a tax bill, as we often see them. It is a bill that contains many different things. After all, the first part is about a greater degree of reporting to SKAT, which will then have to go to the EU when it comes to state aid. After all, it is about more openness and transparency about state aid, and that is something that we think is positive. On the whole, more openness and transparency are something that we can support. Then we have a matter of payroll tax, which comes out of the fact that an EU judgment of 2013 will mean that a number of educational institutions will no longer be exempt from payroll tax, while others will continue to be. In this light, of course, it cannot be the intention that vocational and production schools and universities should be placed at a disadvantage compared with other educational establishments. So we can back that part of the bill, too. There are, however, some consultation answers that have come from, among others. Danish Business Academys who wonder that they are not included. My question on behalf of the Enhedslisten will then be whether the list is exhaustive. How did the list now appear? Are there any other types of educational institutions to be included here? I think it might be appropriate to discuss it during committee work. We can also support the amendment of the compensation clause for land-to-ship electricity. It is better that ships do not use their own diesel engine when they have to produce electricity when they are at berth, but instead use electricity that is more environmentally friendly and pollutes less, including in the urban environment. After all, we know that the diesel engines of ships are one of the most polluting. The fact that smaller ships of less than 400 tonnes gross tonnage now receive the same compensation as the large ones and are therefore encouraged to use more environmentally friendly electricity is a good thing. But it might be interesting just to find out what possibilities the legislation offers to completely prohibit these ships from docking and using their diesel engine. It is true that you can provide compensation for using electricity from land, but you could also just say: you need electricity from land and do not give a refund. It was an opportunity that could also be used in this context. In any case, this is something that I would like to ask about in connection with the work of the committee if the Minister cannot give a concrete answer here immediately. Then there are some adjustments in the law on nitrogen oxides that facilitate the control of the SKAT, and we also fully agree with them, and we can also support the second element that the collection and reuse of petrol vapours at petrol stations should be promoted through a deduction. We see this as a step forward. The same applies, moreover, to the amendments to the rules governing the registration and issue of the EU registration certificate for block wagons. So we have some questions we want to ask, but overall we are positive about the bill as we are reading it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110153827	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110153832	The other rapporteurs have examined the draft law most prominently. All I have to say is that we can support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110153848	Thank you to the rapporteur, and we shall proceed as a matter of urgency to Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110153858	I must thank you with a second place in the competition to do it fastest in here. We can also fully support the initiative and the legislative proposal. I take note of the green transition, among other things. know that there are good steps along the way, such as: The Enhedslisten's rapporteur said just now. These may be small steps, but they are natural and very logical steps. Our tax legislation is often shot in the shoes, that it is very complex and non-rational, but there is an example of when you think of petrol, that what you pay for is taxed. So all in all, we are positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110153939	Thank you, sir. René Gade. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110153943	Thank you. One of the things you notice as a relatively new tax rapporteur is that there is an incredible amount of legislation in the field of taxation, including in the smallest detail. For this reason, it is often the case that legislation such as this has brought together a wide range of minor amendments to a draft law, in which it has to be said that the individual elements do not necessarily have as much to do with each other as one might imagine. But then it is fortunate that in this case the Radical Left can support all the minor changes that exist. I am not going to list them all here, but just say that what we are most pleased about is that we are now doing even more about the challenge we have had, that the electricity tax was so high on the electricity needed to replace bunker oil for cruise ships and other forms of commercial ships. That is another step in the right direction. You know, sometimes you actually get to take these fights, and it's nice to see that there's gonna be results.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110154053	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110154118	Thank you. This bill has been presented very well, which we in the SF also support overall. I would like to endorse the comments made by Mr Seligman. Rune Lund of Enhedslisten had on how to both have regulation and compensation for that regulation at the same time. I would also like to ask the Minister either today or during the committee work about the remark made by the CSF - Danish auditors that they consider it very important that Danish companies help Denmark to comply with its obligation to report aid amounts under EU State aid rules. You therefore propose to sanction non-reporting. I do not think that we have been fully satisfied in the comments, which is why sanctions should not be imposed if the rules are not complied with. So it's a small thing that we'd like to have bored out a little bit. On the whole, however, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110154216	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110154226	It is a good proposal that the government, as usual, is tempted to say, makes here. This improves, albeit in small terms, the conditions for business. If we take the first part of this with regard to increased transparency on state aid rules, I would say that we are in favour of it. It offers better opportunities for competition. This gives better opportunity to look at what is happening in other European countries in terms of state aid, and in this way we give Danish companies better conditions. As far as the payroll tax is concerned, we are in favour of exempting certain schools from the payroll tax, as well as we think it is a good thing that the government is now proposing that some environmentally friendly electricity should be used rather than fossil fuels for those ships which have the opportunity to do so, when we can just as well move it over to environmentally friendly electricity instead of using fossil fuels. So all in all, it is an excellent proposal from the government that K can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110154325	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we're through the rapporteur's line, and then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110154330	Thank you for that, President. I would like to thank the rapporteurs and parties present for a quick, yet thorough examination of the proposal and for what seems to be a very broad support. As a number of the rapporteurs have mentioned, there are various elements in the draft law, and there are, of course, because in the area of the Treasury there are a large number of things that need to be adjusted. So instead of having eight legislative proposals with eight minor items in it, we choose to put them together. If the Folketing wants to split something up, we will, of course. No one has wanted that in this area, but in order to ensure proper and effective treatment, we choose to put together some of the things we have done in this bill. There are a number of different elements. I will deal with the few that I think deserve the most attention. This is among other things. Those who change the conditions of Danish business. This applies, among other things, to: the proposal on transparency in the granting of State aid in the European Union, which is, of course, about the state aid granted by the Member States of the European Union being presented openly. We do so to a very limited extent in Denmark, where in other countries, perhaps some of them a little more south, they do so to a greater extent. The fact that there is openness and transparency ensures more equal competition, and I think that is beneficial for such a country as Denmark, which goes a long way to ensure that we comply with the EU's state aid rules. It will then be clear how far we go and it is good to have transparency about it. This applies to a lower level of taxation on electricity by using small commercial ships and easier access for Danish companies to carry block wagons in the EU. It is also a matter that has been discussed under the previous government, where we have now finally found a solution to this issue. I think that is what some transport rapporteurs and freight forwarders are pleased about. It is very important for the government that it is not only easier but also cheaper to run a business because it supports growth and employment in Denmark. However, it is also important for the government that there is reasonableness in the tax system and that comparable situations are not treated differently in fiscal terms. And that is why we are proposing, as a number of rapporteurs also mentioned, that among other things. universities, vocational schools and production schools are exempted from payroll tax so that the institutions are treated equally with other educational establishments which are already exempt from payroll tax. So I would like to thank you for the good and constructive tone and the reports from the rapporteurs today. I shall, of course, answer any questions that may arise here from the Chair or in writing in committee before the second and third readings. If I am going to deal briefly with two questions that I noted that were being asked about, then it is the Enhedslisten who is asking whether there are other areas where one could imagine that this payroll VAT discussion is taking place. We believe, of course, that with what is being corrected here in the legislative proposal, we will ensure this equality, but I must not deny that there may be other areas. It is, of course, the case that the Ministry of Taxation and SKAT as an authority and body ensure that the rules are clear and that it is clear to both private and public authorities what VAT and tax rules apply. Someone may have misunderstood them and not comply with them in the private sector or in the public sector. We have had an example of this earlier today, when there was a consultation on VAT on ferry services and the subsidy we have chosen to grant to ferry services, and there we have, of course, tried to inform the other ministries about the rules that apply and asked them to report back. I cannot rule out that there may be other situations where there is a need to adjust the rules. Of course, as a tax minister, I will look at this favourably, because of course it is not intended that changes in practice or judicial decisions should generate unintended additional revenue for the Treasury, among other things. in the field of VAT or payroll. And if it does, the starting point for this government will be to return the money to those who have paid it. This must then be done by the means available to it. Perhaps that is also the answer to the concern of the Social Democratic Party in relation to the production schools, where it has been said in the hearing reply that there is no one for one-turnback in relation to the payroll tax. It is true that we recognise the issue • that there is no solution that lies at hand, and that is why we will continue working with the Ministry of Children and Education to find out how we get this money back. But I cannot guarantee that this will be done at such a one-to-one level; on the other hand, I can say that the political wish is not that an unintended additional revenue should be generated for the Treasury. And in that room I hope we can find a solution that is also better than what is here. Then the Socialist People's Party, the SF, asks why there are no sanctions if you do not register with this state aid database. It is because it is only a limited number of companies that will be covered because you have to have a large turnover, and because it is some companies that we experience are very concerned about regulatory compliance. That is why we have the expectation that there will be no need for sanctions. If, contrary to expectations, sanctions are needed, there is an opportunity to look at this in the notice to be implemented by the legislation, but that will not be the starting point. That was the answer to the two questions I just received. I would also like to respond to any further questions that may come from the rapporteurs in this Chamber, but otherwise I would like to thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110154935	We thank the Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161110154949	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 11 November 2016, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
