ParlaMint-DK_20161111100007	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Defence (Peter Christensen): Bill no. L 80 (Proposal for a Law on Veterans' Job Schemes). Minister for Foreign Affairs (Kristian Jensen): Bill No. L 81 (Proposal for a law amending the law on international development cooperation) and motion for a resolution No. B 22 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the ratification by Denmark of the Protocol on the accession of Montenegroen to the North Atlantic Treaty signed in Brussels on 19 May 2016). Nikolaj Villumsen (EL), Nick Hækkerup (S), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Martin Lidegaard (RV) and Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and others.: Haste query no. F 11 (In view of the arrests of parliamentarians from HDP and journalists from the independent newspaper Cumhuriyet, what will the Minister do to keep Turkey up its obligations in relation to international agreements?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport has presented: Report on the unintended impact of the law on media support. 1. The report will appear at www. Parliamentstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111100112	The debate is open, and that is first Mr President. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111100134	The draft law, which we are dealing with today, aims to amend and clarify the law on horse-keeping. The law in force has been subject to legislative supervision, where it has become clear that there needs to be a better balance in the rules, and it is with this balance in mind that we have to deal with today's legislative proposal. The Social Democratic Party agrees with the government that the existing requirements can be relaxed while not necessarily affecting animal welfare. However, there are some shortcomings in the draft law which give cause for concern, and I shall come back to them in a moment. The bill changes the retention period for group-housed horses, the business requirements, fold requirements, fold access requirements and certain horse handling requirements. These changes, with our eyes, correct the imbalance in current law. The retention period for group-housed horses is changed, for example, so that for the safety of children and adults, horses can be tied up for up to 5 hours once a day. This increases, for example. the safety of riding schools. In addition, the requirements for the horse stalls, including the requirement for the height of the stables, the barn compartment, the box size and the lighting conditions, shall be changed. The rules are currently too inflexible and do not take into account the size of the horse and the possibility of artificial ventilation and light. The new rules cover the behavioral and physiological needs of the horse, while ensuring that there are no requirements that make no sense in practice and that are unnecessarily harassed. There will also be changes in relation to requirements for access to folds. Firstly, it is inappropriate that there should be a maximum of 20 horses on one fold at the moment, regardless of the size of the fold; it is now clear that there are general rules on folding capacity. Secondly, it becomes clear that jumps and foals also have to be folded and exercised the first month after emulation, as it is important in relation to the development and socialisation of the foal. Finally, various types of horse keeping are now also being taken into account. This means that horses that live partially game on demarcated areas do not necessarily have to be trained. All the changes that I have just undergone create, for us, a reasonable balance between animal welfare and respect for horse-keeping. But there are shortcomings that we would like to discuss in committee. Firstly, it is a fact that horses are flock animals that need social contact with fellow species. As early as the adoption of the first law in 2007, we highlighted the issue, which is why the Social Democratic Party believes that it is now time to put action behind the words, and that is why we in the committee would also like to discuss the possibility that horse teams may consist of at least two horses, more closely. The second point is that we would like to discuss the possibility of laying down training requirements for people who prune or take fittings. An authorisation has already been given in the current law, but has not been used, and we would like to look into this because we believe that it will both provide better animal welfare, but that it can also be a needle-sticking agent to put an end to parts of undeclared work and social dumping. So all in all we think it is positive that there is more balance in the rules, while at the same time we want to work on the two points that I have just highlighted. We look forward to discussing this in the committee work, where, among other things, we are concerned. will ask about the consequences of horses walking alone, and of improperly cut and built fittings. I hope that we can reach a compromise so that we can have a law that both simplifies the rules and improves animal conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111100534	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next is Mrs. Karina Due, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111100603	L 45 is an approximation of the existing law, where we go in and adjust some things that are not very appropriate. There is no doubt that we want the very best animal welfare for horses, but at the same time we must also bear in mind that rules do not necessarily have to be drawn up which make it too expensive and too difficult for horse owners and riding schools. We must ensure animal welfare, but we must not make it too difficult for horse-owners. That's why there's really, really good sense in doing these things. We can support the changes that are being made here. The only small concern we have is with regard to the social contact that horses, which are flock animals, do not have, because it is not specified in the changes here that horses must be more together, in other words have social contact with fellow species. But it also says at the same time that at this stage, when we look at the various amendments that are here in the draft law, we can see that there are, among other things. are some changes in the fact that semi-wild horses are exempt from the requirement that they should learn to be handled at an early age. That makes really, really good sense. Otherwise, it's like not really wild horses. As far as the retention period is concerned, it may sound as if it is a minus in the animal welfare account that you must now be allowed to bind up to 5 hours in a day instead of 2 hours, but it also says that it is only when it is necessary for safety reasons. On the other hand, this makes it possible for the various riding schools to hold a group to a much greater extent, and this is very, very good for the horses in relation to their social behavior. So, all in all, we support the bill from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111100854	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111100909	Thank you. The Left, of course, is also voting in favour of L 45, which is a general relaxation of the law on horse teams. L 45 is a bill which is made on the basis of a law monitoring and a consultation of the profession, which is daily influenced by the law. The amendment of the law will ease some of the unnecessarily strict requirements of the law without, however, compromising animal welfare in horse stalls. When the law on the team of horses came back in 2006, it was agreed that the law should be followed up, and L 45 is the result of this follow-up. It has been found that the law on horse-keeping has created challenges among horse-owners around the country. The horse sector has pointed out that the requirements of the law have been a threat to the closure of some riding schools, horse pensions and studs, as some parts of the legislation have been very costly to meet. They also point out that there are no studies showing that the current requirements for box sizes will actually lead to better animal welfare. We have listened to the monitoring of the law, and we have proposed with this legislative proposal reductions where, of course, that makes sense. We have proposed reductions where the welfare of horses is not affected. In practical terms, this is a relaxation of the rules governing the binding of horses, and the current rules restrict, among other things, the right to self-determination. equestrian schools in connection with education. This is also a relaxation of the rules on ceiling height. In future, account must be taken of the size of the individual horse, and the rules on the height of the ceiling should not be calculated, as they are today, in small intervals. In addition, the draft law proposes a change in the requirements for house size and climate, and it must be clarified that adequate air change is ensured in the barn. The requirements for box sizes are also proposed to be changed, and it will be possible to have a little smaller boxes, but of course the horse must still have free opportunities to turn around and lie down and so on, without any damage being done. The lighting requirements are also proposed to be changed so that there are no longer requirements for the size of a window area in the barn, but for the amount of lighting. In addition, it is proposed that foals and plagues until 1 year of age should be folded with fellow species. Last but not least, it is proposed that semi-wild horses should be exempted from the requirement that they be able to be handled from an early age. Overall, this is a legislative proposal designed to reduce the cost of keeping horses, and it is important for me to emphasise that we have a strong focus on the welfare of horses. But for the Left, it is also important that we do not bend our feet for riding schools etc., so that children and young people can still have many good times away. The Left, of course, will therefore vote in favour of the bill. Then I should also welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111101226	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111101237	When you read the bill, it cannot be concealed that it is a legislative proposal aimed at maintaining a balance between the economy and animal welfare, and we in the Enhedslisten have a little feeling that the economy has been prioritised with what is set in terms of reducing box sizes for horses. I think it is a good thing that we have the hearings on matters such as these, and in particular I would like to thank the Animal Ethics Council for their comments. It is a bit strange that the criticism of reducing the box size is then refuted by the fact that there is no scientific evidence of the importance of box size for the welfare of the horse. There I have to say that if we in the Danish Parliament only adopted legislative proposals in which there was scientific evidence, we would probably not have had so many legislative proposals. I think that there must be limits to how much scientific evidence can be provided. Here we are in a situation where we think there is a lack of a requirement that changing box sizes should result in horses being entitled to more daily outdoor time. That seems to us to be a reasonable requirement in terms of balancing it. Then we think it is a good thing that it is intended here to look critically at how small a horse crew can be, but it is only in three years' time that it will be clear whether to define that a horse crew should be on two horses and I really think there is something reasonable in considering things according to the needs of the horses, but that has not been done. I wish you could make that assessment faster than in three years. So we really think it would be nice to clarify this during the committee procedure. Could it not be clarified within a year in relation to perhaps obtaining scientific evidence for those parts of the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111101440	There is a brief comment. Mrs. May-May-Britten Kattrup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111101444	Thank you. I would just like to ask what the rapporteur's desire for larger boxes is based on. One thing is that it is not scientifically proven, we agree on that, but now that horsemen as a whole believe that a horse can both lie down, that it can turn around, that it can rest and that it actually thrives well on the sizes that are in the law now, on what does the rapporteur base his criticism that the box should be bigger?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111101521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111101522	I am basing my criticism on the consultation answers that lie where the Animal Ethics Council is concerned about reducing box sizes. When I read this case, I can see that someone has an economic interest in being able to have as few square meters as possible for a box. This does not mean that it will be a problem everywhere if you reduce the box size. I just think that it is not entirely connected when one does not propose in the law that, if one reduces the box size, it may lead to the requirement that horses have better access to the outdoors. 'Cause then I'd think it could be a little bit connected. It is in this way what I think would be appropriate to clarify in the committee's proceedings, i.e. if the Animal Ethnic Council does not have the right idea that there is in fact something here where the conditions of the horses should not be impaired simply because there is someone who has an economic interest in setting up a riding school, so that as many horses as possible can be brought in as few square metres as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111101622	Mrs. May-May-Britten Kattrup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111101624	Thank you. Now it is the case that, in this context, the economic interests are actually being used to demand that there should be larger box sizes, because some have already invested in larger boxes. And it is actually a rather strange argument that because some have already built larger boxes, others must do so too. This has little to do with animal welfare, because the horses are doing just as well whether they are in old boxes or in new boxes. In other words, whether the horse is in new construction or in an existing box has nothing to do with how the horse thrives in the box, and it has to be said that with the box sizes required now, the horse can lie down, it can turn around, it can lie down, it can relax, it has plenty of space, so what more does it need?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111101717	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111101718	Thank you. Well, I think it is essential to listen to the organisations that focus on our livestock having the best conditions. I think it is very good when they come up with consultation answers and point out that if you reduce some box sizes, it would be reasonable that there should also be a requirement that there should be a longer daily outdoor time for those horses. I read this as a very good consultation answer that you should not just take economic considerations into account when setting up stables.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111101750	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111101809	Thank you. As a rider and as a horse owner, it is very special to stand here on the speaking chair of the Folketing and be allowed to talk about horses. It is very gratifying that the Folketing cares about horse welfare, and that is exactly what this law is supposed to do, that is to say, ensure horse welfare. One might well question whether a separate law on horses was now needed or whether the Animal Protection Act had been sufficient, but when the bill is here, it is with great satisfaction that the Liberal Alliance notes that the bill ensures horse welfare, while listening to the industry and removing much unnecessary bureaucracy, which would not increase horse welfare after all. This means that we can avoid further closures of riding schools, breeding houses, educational establishments, private stables etc. Unfortunately, more people have already closed because it was not considered likely that the law would be amended. The initial requirements would mean high costs for conversions or new buildings without scientific evidence or a reasonable assumption that the requirements would lead to better horse welfare. This underlines the importance of having politicians think well every time we legislate that we question whether new legislation is now also necessary and whether it now also serves the purpose we wanted. The intentions are always good, but the legislative proposals are far from always good. However, I should like at least to welcome the fact that we have both thought about this amendment of the law and have listened to the industry. And it may surprise many, how big the industry really is, and what consequences wrong regulation can have for turnover and jobs. Before this law came into force in 2008, the horse industry converted 25 billion euros. kr. and accounted for the equivalent of 21,000 full-time employees. The production of the horse industry is measured among other things. In terms of coverage figures, that is, how many jumps do she horses, if anyone is in doubt about the cover, and this production has halved since the entry into force of this legislation. And it has only begun to turn back so small with the prospect of the adoption of the amendments that we are discussing today. The turnover of the entire industry, which includes riding schools, studs, racing, vets, seizuresmiths, riding equipment shops, Beriders, the sale of horses, training, the sale and cultivation of horse fodder, the construction of horse stables and riding halls etc., has decreased by 4 billion. kr., and this has meant a decrease of 2,500 full-time employees. And part of these jobs are in the outermost regions, but fairly it has to be said that the financial crisis has also had an impact on this development. Of course, when we deal with animals and people, welfare is more important than crowns and ears, but it is undoubtedly so that the more wealth we have, the more we can afford the welfare of people as well as horses. And it is really nice that this draft law amending the law on horse-keeping takes both into account. The vast majority of important changes concern box sizes, box height, light in the boxes and fold rules. All these have been changed so that horses can still have a good and lovely life while riding schools and other accommodations do not need to spend excessive money on conversions or new buildings or have to close without it improving horse welfare. One thing I'm sorry, though, since the bill is here, is that you still have to keep a single horse. Horses should always be with other peers or at least another lizard. It may be a little waste of resources to make a study of this rather than just decide. A horse alone is too much a horse, and I think that one could consider that in the further committee work and that one might drop the investigation and then just decide that horses should not be alone. However, there is no doubt that the Liberal Alliance supports the bill and, together with the horse business, is very pleased with this draft amending law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111102256	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111102318	It must be a party to be a horse in Denmark, also in the future. That is why, as a starting point, we are somewhat sceptical about the proposal, and it is not because I myself know very much about horse-keeping. It is simply because there are a number of consultation responses which share some concerns. Many of the reductions seem justified, and the proposal before us immediately gives a more nuanced piece of legislation. It takes into account the size of the horse, the possibility of binding, etc. But the general impression is that there is a reduction in animal welfare in relation to the original law. We must not impose lower animal welfare requirements. We need to make higher demands. I am therefore leaning on constructive concerns and amendments from the consultation parties, in particular the Animal Ethics Council, the protection of animals, the Animal Fund, the Veterinary Health Council. There are many of the consultation responses which highlight the problem of easing, for example, the situation in the United Kingdom. box size requirements, the importance of giving horses the opportunity to be on fold 7 days a week and not just 5, as proposed by the bill. We also believe that the training requirement, highlighted by the vast majority of consultation responses, is really and essential to include in a revision of the law on horse-keeping, since such a requirement could significantly improve animal welfare. Then, of course, it is also positive that you will examine how many horses are kept individually and get some figures on it. But I really think that we should go straight to a change here. The horse is a herd animal, and it doesn't have to take 3 years and a lot of statistics to find out that it's a good idea that horses should be more together. So, in our view, it will be a significant improvement in the legislative proposal if it can be included from the outset. At first sight, we are opposed to the proposal, but let us look at what we can meet about in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111102540	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111102546	Thank you. What matters is always to find a balance between regulation, de-bureaucratisation and consideration for what we want to legislate about. And precisely in the area of animal welfare, therefore, we have an additional obligation to be careful because animals do not have their own voice and because they are in our care and are our responsibility. So we think it is worth listening very carefully to the voices and experts who speak with the animal's terms in mind when doing such an exercise as the government will do with L 45. And so a red flag has been raised from several sides. The Animal Ethics Council, the Veterinary Health Council, the Animal Protection and the Animal Fund all have a large number of concerns about ceiling height, about indoor climate, about box size, about light in the barn, about fold size and access to fold. Those concerns are so important that we, on the part of the Radical Left, cannot at this stage support the bill as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111102655	Thank you. Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111102703	The law on horse racing, which came into force in 2008, should gradually create better conditions for horses towards 2020, including: with demands for larger horse boxes, higher ceilings and more natural light. Since then there have been criticisms from horse riding schools and citizens in particular who have horses in existing stables that will not meet the requirements of 2020. The proposed bill will relax some of these rules. In SF, we would like to look at changes that have a positive welfare effect or that remove unnecessary rules. However, we are rather hesitant about changing existing rules with the justification that there is no documented welfare effect. It should be said that more space and natural light are animal welfare. One of the things that is at least abundantly documented is that it is not good for flock animals like horses to be alone both because of their social nature, but also because it makes them insecure. Now that we have the law, we think that we should therefore address some of the issues about the needs of horses for social contact and free time in the fold, which have been raised already when the law was last discussed. Horse teams should be on at least two horses and therefore, both in the stable and especially in the fold, should have the possibility of contact with other horses. And we don't have to stall with an examination of how many horses go alone. Because if there is no one, there is no problem for anyone that the rule is there. With regard to the question of horse sizes in relation to the ceiling height of the barn, there may be some reasonableness that this depends on the size of the animal. And it may also make sense that the new requirements for the size of the barn box etc. shall not apply to existing housing buildings. However, as the profession itself suggests in their response to the consultation process, it is easy to maintain the requirement for new buildings and substantial conversions. Otherwise, you would feel ridiculous if you were one of those who rebuilt their stables according to the new standards. And why is there no ambition for better animal welfare? Another animal welfare concern is the possibility of daily exercise. Here we believe that we should use the opportunity to ensure that horses are exercised every day and that there is more fold time. It's fine that the youngest horses should be exercised on folds, but why shouldn't it apply to all horses? The size of the fold does not matter if one is to take account of the nature and health of the horse. As is also pointed out in the consultations of animal protection organisations, it is important that there is the possibility that horses can withdraw at the lowest level in the hierarchy and that the area is so large in relation to the number of horses that it is not ploughed up and thus becomes risky in relation to the health and safety of horses. We will take a positive step in the work of the committee and hope that there will be an opportunity to make some adjustments to the law, which takes account of some of the wishes of riding schools and horse-owners for simplifications, but which at the same time also create greater animal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111103025	Thank you. There is one comment from Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111103030	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Trine Torp something, because I was not quite sure that I understood it: was it an argument for larger box sizes that the people who had built larger boxes should not be ridiculous? Was that the argument for making bigger box sizes?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111103046	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111103047	No, that wasn't the argument. The argument is that we actually think it is a good idea for the boxes to get that size. It was just to say that we would like to look at like making a smoother transition to the rule for the existing buildings. But to turn down the ambitions of larger barn boxes we think is a bad idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111103107	Mrs. May-May-Britten Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111103108	As I have already said before, all the people who deal with horses care about their horses and want them only the best. And you can see that with the box sizes that are today, a horse can lie down, turn around, get up or lie down and relax and have a good life. So I do not understand what is behind the desire for larger box sizes. After all, most horses are much more out than in the 2 hours provided for in the law. The vast majority of horses are far out more than that and spend relatively few hours in the boxes. So I do not quite see what it has to do with animal welfare to demand bigger boxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111103156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111103158	When these rules are made, it's because there's an animal welfare law that generally protects animals. And when you make special laws, it is not intended for those who, what can be said, give their horses optimal conditions. It is precisely in order to protect itself against some of the cases of animal welfare organisations where horses do not have a sufficiently good life. I am leaning on what the animal protection organisations are saying, and their recommendation is that box sizes should be larger.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111103231	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Left has spoken for the Conservatives, and then it is the Minister now. Here you go to the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111103247	Thank you for that, President. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent contributions. I think this has been a good and constructive debate on the legislative proposal. Let me begin by saying that it is important to me that we have a law on horses which helps to ensure good welfare for horses but which, at the same time, does not make unreasonable demands on horse teams, with the consequence that more riding schools must turn the key. Several of the business requirements of the current horse law are so costly that it threatens to close a number of riding schools and horse pensions, thus depriving many children and young people of the joy of riding and, at the very least, with horses. The aim of the draft law is therefore to ease a number of costly demands where this can be done without impairing the welfare of horses. This applies, among other things, to: the requirement for box size. The requirement for box size for individual housing of horses is proposed to be modified so that the box may be slightly smaller, but to continue to ensure that horses can easily turn, lie down and get back up without injury. The proposed amendment should be seen in the light of the absence of scientifically recognised studies on the importance of the box size for the welfare of the horse. And then, as several rapporteurs have pointed out, it is also up to horse-owners to have a focus on how well the horses are doing, and no one has any interest in the animals not being well, not at all their owners. The proposal also proposes to introduce more flexible rules on the requirement of height ceilings in horse stalls to take account of the height of the individual horse. It is also proposed to abolish the requirement for a minimum volume of 30 m3 per year. Horse. Instead, it is specified that an adequate air change must be ensured in the housing, both natural and mechanical ventilation, so that the welfare of the horses does not deteriorate. Another related requirement, which is proposed to be abolished, is the requirement for the size of the window area. There will continue to be a requirement that there should be sufficient natural light in the barn, possibly supplemented by artificial light, and, at the same time, with the amendment of the provision on light, it will be stressed that lighting in the barn should follow the circadian rhythm. In addition, with the bill, the government will make it easier for example. riding schools to have their horses group housed rather than individual housing. I believe that group housing offers horses a good opportunity for movement and social contact with fellow species, and that is why we are going to change the current rules on the binding of horses, which today impose restrictions which may mean that riding schools opt out of having their horses group-housed. With the proposed change of the retention period for horses housed 24 hours a day, riding schools will be able to bind their horses for up to 5 hours once a day when this is necessary for safety reasons. The changes will mean that riding schools can run both riding lessons and feeding in continuation of each other. Another significant change with the bill is a new requirement that foals and plagues, until they are 1 year old, should be on hold with fellow species, and should anyone be in doubt about what a plague is, yes, then it is either that it is weaning or that it is more than a year old so it depends a little on which version one chooses. The reason for introducing this requirement is that it is of great importance for the development and socialisation of foals and plagues that they have contact with fellow species. I am aware, as several rapporteurs have also pointed out in the Chamber, that horses generally need social contact with fellow species, but it is not currently proposed to introduce a requirement that all horses should consist of at least two horses. I believe that the need for joint contact with species must be balanced against other considerations. As mentioned in the bill, a study will be initiated to give an indication of how many horse teams in Denmark are made up of one horse alone, because there is no inventory of this at present. After further examination, it can therefore be assessed whether a legal requirement is to be introduced for any horse crew to consist of at least two horses. One can say that there may also be other types of animals with which a single horse could stand. The draft law also proposes that horses that live partially game are exempt from the requirement that horses at an early age should learn to be handled, as the Danish People's Party rapporteur rightly pointed out. The reason for this is, of course, that there is typically access for the public to the areas on which such horses go, and for safety reasons it is important for horses to naturally keep an appropriate distance from people. Finally, the draft law contains some minor amendments and clarifications, for example: The law clarifies that the number of horses that can use a fold of one day will depend on the size of the fold. It is important for me to emphasise that the proposed changes continue to focus on the welfare of horses. The draft law does not compromise on this, but, as I said, there is no need to impose unnecessarily strict requirements on horse teams, and with those words I shall look forward to the committee reading of the bill and thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111103751	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111103757	Thank you. I am just wondering about this little thing in the proposal that over three years you will be looking at how things stand with regard to whether horses stand alone or not alone. I guess that's not the point. The argument should surely be whether it is natural for a horse to stand alone or not as the basis for a provision as to whether to make that requirement. It is surely animal welfare that applies, and thus the requirement could be introduced immediately, if that is what animal welfare says.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111103831	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111103833	Thank you for the question. There are several aspects to it. One aspect is to clarify the scope, because that is essential. Many horse owners may have bought a small property with a totally adapted land area compared to the number of horses purchased. There may be some challenges in whether there can be two horses there in relation to the size of the area and the like. Another aspect, of course, is the relationship: How are horses with other four-legged animals? Does that give them a social contact? It's also one of the things that is important to consider in relation to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111103903	Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111103910	As I understand the expertise in the consultation answers, one has a very good picture that horses need at least one other animal, like a fellow species, but perhaps also other animals. So I still think it's strange that three years should be spent investigating the statistics in this area instead of the very core and content of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111103932	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111103933	Well, I do not think that there are horse owners who have their horses to walk alone, if that means that animal welfare will then deteriorate, because you will be able to feel that on your horse. Therefore, what I am saying is that I have great confidence that it will take care of the horse-owners. But it is clear that it is also essential to know the extent of this issue before we go to actual legislation on it. And I am very happy that we are now getting clarity about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111103957	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111104015	The debate is open, and that is first Mr President. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111104030	Thank you. Even if, on this day of grief, you might want to read up a Leonard Leonard poem, we'd better throw ourselves over the more earthly tasks. Before the summer holidays, the Social Democratic Party concluded an agreement with the government, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party on a better balance in Denmark, where we create a better framework for municipalities, citizens and companies throughout the country. The agreement came into being after a long process of negotiation, where the Social Democrats got stuck on the edge of the table and saved our open shores and our unspoiled Danish beaches. The government wanted a very far-reaching liberalisation of the planning law with dramatic consequences for Denmark's wildest and most unspoiled nature, namely our coasts. The Social Democratic Party stopped that. We had 15 major construction projects slowed down on the coasts. We put our heels in front of business zones with endless rows of beach chairs on our beaches, and we saved the green Danish map, which will in future develop the coherent nature of Denmark. That is why the agreement was, and is, important. Today we are dealing with a legislative proposal which translates the part of the agreement which concerns the merger of two complaints bodies from the Ministry of the Environment and Food into one new one, namely the Environmental and Food Complaints Board. For Social Democracy, it is crucial that a new environmental and food complaints board strengthens legal certainty for citizens. We must ensure that the new Board of Appeal has clear responsibilities, has a flexible and effective procedure and also remains independent. Our expectation is that the location of the Board of Appeal in the House of Names in Viborg, together with a number of the other State Boards of Appeal, will contribute to a better and more effective case management, to greater flexibility and to a stronger professional environment for the benefit of companies, municipalities and citizens alike. But, of course, we are listening to the criticism that has been levelled at the draft law. If the legislative proposal is not clear as it stands, or if there are elements in the legislative proposal that do not sufficiently support citizens' legal certainty, then we must look at it. We take seriously the concerns that have been raised and take them into the further consideration of the committee. In the political agreement, we set the objective that the average processing time should be reduced and lasting to less than six months. It is important for me to emphasise here today that this objective is absolutely crucial for social democracy. We have seen cases in the past where complaints from municipalities and citizens lie as long as a year before they are dealt with. This is of course not satisfactory for anyone, it is unfortunate for the parties involved in the matter, and it is also unacceptable from a political perspective. That is why we have insisted that the objective of a maximum processing period of six months should be included directly in the legislative proposal, and it is our expectation that the government will ensure that the processing time that we have agreed on can also be respected in the future for all cases. The appeal fee is another focus of attention for the Social Democratic Party. In the political agreement, we have supported differentiated complaint fees for individuals, organisations and companies, and we have also supported the fact that the complaint fee in future covers a higher proportion of the average cost of redress. However, we must not be at odds with the Århus Convention or the Administrative Act, which is why we must have full certainty that the two, the Århus Convention and the Administrative Act, have been complied with. This is absolutely crucial for us. The bill translates the agreement on a Denmark into a better balance, which the Social Democratic Party helped to achieve in June 2016. That is why, of course, we also support the draft law, and we look forward to further consideration both in this Chamber and in the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111104402	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111104410	Thank you. As the former rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party has said, this is, after all, an implementation of the agreement made by the government, the Social Democratic Party, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party on a better balance in Denmark. The whole idea of this is that, like the matter we had on Tuesday on the Board of Appeal, we will have a House of Names in Viborg, where we will hopefully have a more flexible access to complaints for citizens and organisations, but also a better procedure for supporting and helping each other. We in the Danish People's Party think this is the right thing to do, and I also expect that the processing times will be shorter. That is also one of the points I made last Tuesday in the debate on the Board of Appeal, namely that the processing times are coming down. It is quite important when you have complaints both for the person complained about and for those who complain that these matters are being dealt with relatively quickly. We in the Danish People's Party are also quite happy to introduce a fee that says 900 DKK. for private persons and DKr 1,800. for organisations. Again today, I would like to mention that I hope that it will perhaps cause people who complain and organisations who complain and here we are talking a lot about the Danish Nature Conservation Association, which in my optics complains about almost everything and then complain when you really think there is something to complain about, instead of just doing it per. automatic. In fact, if you are successful in your complaint, you get the money back, and I think that is essential. That's why it's quite fine. I am counting on us to make an assessment of whether this is actually going to happen, because that is essential. The Danish People's Party is, of course, behind the proposal. We are part of the agreement and we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111104610	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111104616	Thank you. I just have to deal with this when the rapporteur says that an organisation such as the Danish Nature Conservation Association complains about virtually everything. I myself have previously been employed there, and I know the statistics from within: you complain about 1-3 per cent. of the decisions and wins in the order of half of the cases. That is to say, they have a very targeted approach to being able to see far ahead of time when a mistake has been made in connection with a permit or environmental authorisation, or whatever it is, and thus hit pretty good spots, thus helping democracy to sort things out properly. Does the rapporteur still think that it is complaining about virtually everything when we talk about 1-3 per cent? of the decisions that exist?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111104712	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111104714	It is certainly my very clear impression that when you come around the country and talk to citizens who have tried to get coastal protection or projects out in nature or close to the water, they find that the Danish Nature Conservation Association complains about what is going on. If the rapporteur thinks that, when you are right in about half of cases, you are good at finding out what to complain about, I would just say that I would have hoped that the percentage was somewhat higher, that is to say that you were right in 90%. of cases. So you could say that in the 50%. In the case of cases where they are not right, at least some time has elapsed for the person complained about, in an unjustified way, one might say, and where people are therefore sitting and waiting. So I hope that it also makes the Danish Nature Conservation Association think about when to file a complaint.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111104805	Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111104807	I'm sure the Danish Nature Conservation Association does. There is a very professional approach to when something is on one side or on the other. And then it's very complex, and that's also why you don't win them all, because there's always new aspects and new angles to things. I just think it is really important that we have some people who are talking about the environment and nature, and it is not individuals who can, nor are companies who can. That is why it is incredibly important for democracy that we have the kind of organisations that can speak up for the public good, in this case the cause of nature, the cause of the landscape, the cause of the coast, the cause of the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111104853	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111104854	So in the Danish People's Party, it is not the case that we have anything against organisations that speak for the cause of nature and the environment. I get a little irritated, because it always seems like if you don't back a hundred percent on, for example. Denmark's Conservation Association, pr. definition is black and not green. It bothers me. I just think that the Danish Nature Conservation Association should sometimes look at the fact that there are also people to be taken into account, and we are happy to do so in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111104923	Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111104926	I just find it hard to understand why the Danish People's Party needs to stand and talk like this about a broad popular movement in Denmark. These are organisations which are widely represented in the political spectrum. It is not only Denmark's Nature Conservation Association, it is also Denmark's Sports Fishermen's Association, it is also the Free Air Council, many of the voices that are natural and need to be able to participate when a decision that ensures that nature is also taken into account is taken into account. Why does the Danish People's Party need to stand and talk so condescendingly about our popular commitment to Denmark as if you were just complaining in the East and the West? Does the Danish People's Party really think that some people just sit at home and have the most fun complaining about things?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111105007	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111105008	I hope that you do not see it as if I am talking patronizingly about an organisation, because that is certainly not the intention. But it is my intention to point out that when I am in the country, many people turn to me and say that it is always someone from the Danish Nature Conservation Association or the organisation itself who complains that people want to make some rural development. I find this problematic, and I should therefore like to mention it just as much as the rapporteur might mention an employers' association in whose view one disagrees.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111105042	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111105044	When a popular organisation wins over half of the cases they complain, one has to say that they are usually onto something. That is why I find it strange to hear the Danish People's Party stand and talk such about organisations, as if they are just trying to harass their local environment, when in reality they are trying to ensure that in all the decisions that are made nature is also taken into account, where we often have development and growth as a main concern. So I just want to encourage the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party to come out and talk to DN perhaps and try to find out what it is that drives them, find out why nature is so important to them, and why they often think that nature should not always lose, can be a difficult point of view to have when we want something. I may think there are cases where you can think: Oh, come on, it's just some kind of frog. But it's because there has to be a whole in this, and they stand for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111105134	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111105135	Now it is not the case that I have not spoken to the Danish Nature Conservation Association. I have held several meetings with them, and many times I have asked them why they have complained about it and that matter. It is my impression that it is not always known. Then it is possible that others have a different impression, but that is not my impression, and that is why I point it out in relation to the Danish Nature Conservation Association. In the context of the discussion we had about the plan and the beach protection line, a petition is made for construction within the beach protection line, as if we were going to make the Costa del West Coast, which has never been the case. And that kind of thing bothers me because I think it's irresponsible. I think it is important to talk about nature and the environment, but I also think it is important to point out sometimes that what is described is not always what is going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111105219	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111105234	Thank you. The Left, of course, will vote in favour of L 44 and the merger of complaints bodies in the field of the environment and food. This is a legislative proposal which will ensure a more modern complaint body in the form of the Environmental and Food Complaints Board, which will be located in the House of Names in Viborg, and the new Environmental and Food Complaints Board will deal with all complaints in nature and environmental matters, as well as food, agriculture and fisheries matters. The new complaint body is a merger of the current complaints centres, environmental and food complaints boards and the Complaints Centre for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. The new Board of Appeal will ensure a smooth handling, a shorter processing period and greater uniformity in the handling of complaints. The jury will be the secretariat officer in the House of Names in Viborg, and it will ensure that this board will also be part of the collaboration and experience the synergy effect that will be in the House of Names. The expectation is that there will be streamlining and coordination of both the professional and legal aspects of the procedure. The composition of the board will ensure a more modern Board of Appeal. Eight expert chambers and a lay department shall be set up to supplement the President and the two Judges sitting in the Board. In future, there will be fewer experts to choose from in the course of the procedure, but those who are will be more involved in the process and will ensure the uniformity and flexibility of the purpose of this new design. The members of the board will have good opportunities to build up experience and knowledge with the work of the Environmental and Food Complaints Board. In the agreement • Denmark in better balance • Better framework for municipalities, citizens and companies across the country • it was agreed to raise and differentiate the fees to complain to the current Nature and Environmental Complaints Board, and with the bill it is proposed that the fee increase from DKK 500. for 900 kroner. for private individuals and DKr 1,800; for enterprises. It is a fee which covers a very small part of the cost of a complaint procedure, while at the same time not making a complaint disproportionate. For cases which have previously been dealt with in the agricultural and food sectors, the law in force is maintained in relation to businesses. The aim of the new Board of Appeal is also to reduce processing times in the long term, and it is a goal of the agreement that Denmark is in a better balance sheet • Better framework for municipalities, citizens and companies throughout the country • that processing times should be reduced to an average of 6 months for a complaint procedure. The new and more flexible procedure in the Environmental and Food Complaints Board will contribute to this. The Left, of course, will vote in favour of this proposal, and I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111105526	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111105535	Thank you. With the draft for the new Environmental and Food Complaints Board, one can be worried about nature, because where has nature gone in the bill? Not only is it missing in the name of the name, but it is also more or less absent from the legal text itself. One might be concerned that the Board of Appeal is watered down both democratically and professionally in relation to the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board we have today. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that there are several points that are particularly worrying about the proposed composition of the board. It is suggested that in the new Environmental and Food Complaints Board there will be only 4 medical members. It means all other things equal a significantly narrower representation of the Danish Parliament's parties than we have in the present Nature and Environmental Complaints Board, where there are 7 members appointed by the Danish Parliament's parties. We see this as a clear deterioration in democratic representation. There are up to nine permanent departments of members, but where is the terrestic nature, the part of nature, which are beaches, heat and dunes etc.? It has been introduced under agricultural conditions. It should, in the view of Enhedslisten, be a separate section for these habitat types, including internationally protected natural areas and conservation areas, and these subject areas should be removed from the agricultural sector where they are now located. This will strengthen the complaints procedure in both the agricultural and nature-related areas. Moreover, genetic engineering and environmental damage conditions are absent from what lies there. The Enhedslisten is concerned that the structure to which the mention is put will lead to a deterioration in professional competence. For example: the two experts on agricultural matters together shall have knowledge in the following areas: agricultural operation, land management, livestock production, crop production, management and application of manure, environmental technology, the impact of agriculture on nature, in particular terrestrial nature and surface water, including internationally protected and § 3 protected natural habitat types, nutrient supply and nutrient leaching from farming to surface water and groundwater. In other words, it is a huge area and two people alone cannot hold enough professional knowledge to cover a department with sufficient expertise. The Enhedslisten fears that decisions will fall in quality. With regard to the fees for complaints: In the draft law, the Minister for the Environment and Food envisages that the agricultural industry can avoid fees when complaints are made while the price for voluntary associations is raised by 360%. In the draft law on the new Environmental and Food Complaints Board, the price of submitting a complaint increases by 360%. 500 kroner. DKK 1,800. This is an increase in fees which cannot be explained in any way by general price regulation. This means, for example, that a local circle of the Free Air Council complaining that a path or a field road has been closed, what will limit the outdoor life, or a local section of the DN complaining about illegal deforestation, will have to pay a fee of DKK 1,800 in future. There is no doubt that it will mean something to smaller organisations that cannot afford to complain about decisions. In my view, it is more like an attempt to silence the organisations that complain. On the other hand, it is suggested that it should continue to be free of charge for the agricultural industry and others covered by food law to complain about decisions to the same board. In the Enhedslisten we simply cannot see that there should be a rational explanation for this discrimination, and we think that we in the committee should have looked at that. We think it is essential to clarify whether this is contrary to the Aarhus Convention. Former Minister for the Environment Karen Ellemann tried back in 2010 to set the fees up to DKK 3,000. It was dealt with and it came to the conclusion that it was in this way contrary to the Aarhus Convention, and the matter had to be changed. It will be important to clarify whether this is also the case with the charges that have been set up here. We believe that it is a deterioration in democracy that we find it harder to afford to complain. We believe that this would impair the ability of associations and citizens to control public authority. We certainly believe that this is a democratic deterioration that has been incorporated into this draft law, and that is why Enhedslisten cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111110025	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111110034	First of all, I would like to congratulate the government on this specific initiative and proposal for the creation of a single complaints board for the environment and food, which we are now dealing with first. The Liberal Alliance believes that the merger into a single board of complaints concerning the whole area of the Ministry of the Environment and Food is a right step to take together with a merger of the various complaints bodies into a single unit of operation, the House of Names, which is well under the Ministry of Business and Growth, but where the process of complaints can be rationalised and streamlined. In this way, hopefully, we can also deal with inappropriate situations in which the Board of Appeal initially fails to make use of the possibility of prioritising a large number of urgent complaints; this kind of maladministration needs to be brought to an end, while at the same time reducing the duration of proceedings significantly. In the Liberal Alliance, we also expect to see a significant synergy effect in this new organisation, and that it can be ensured that there is quite proper coordination when the same complaint is dealt with by several boards. Having said that, I should like to take this opportunity to repeat myself here from earlier this week, when we discussed the sister proposal, if I may say so, L 42, which deals with the creation of an independent board, the Board of Appeal, under the Ministry of Business and Growth. And since it was the Minister for Business and Growth and not the Minister for the Environment and Food who was present there, I would like to say a few words about the background to this bill, L 44, which, like L 42, is part of the contract complex called Denmark in better balance. And why not? That is because the government might as well have chosen to call the package Denmark in less imbalance. As the title of the agreement also suggests, a little better balance is being achieved, but that is also saying that there is still imbalance. The overall agreement is far too unambitious in terms of my taste and that of the Liberal Alliance; there is far too little progress, far too much social democratic status quo and chin in Stauning's 1920s and 1930s legislation. And maybe, who knows, it is a foretaste of a previously much discussed and possible future collaboration between the present three largest parties in the Folketing, resulting in status quo development with mouse steps and growth in Denmark at the same level as we have seen in the last 10 years. Liberal Alliance and myself personally had among others. I would very much like to see a much greater degree of redistribution of decision-making powers for the development of our rural areas, and not, as it is today, and as the agreement on less imbalance continues to be, namely, that the development of large parts of our rural areas is being kept in an impasse with outdated social democratic state regulation. But this bill, L 44, of the government, supports the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111110412	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111110419	I've been listening a little bit here and I'm thinking that I'm just gonna have to explain what this case of complaints is about. Because I have often encountered the misunderstanding that organisations are complaining that it is they who are complaining like they are hand-righted over a case. However, the fact is that we are deciding some legislation in this Parliament, and it is the case that everyone is equal before the law in a democratic society like the Danish one. And then we have some public authorities to administer this legislation, and they make some decisions. So it is public bodies that may be a municipality, it may be the State which makes a decision in a specific case. Fortunately, this is the case and it is a very important body in our democracy that anyone can go in and complain about this matter if you have an interest in it. It is a little different described in the legislation when you have an interest in it, but at least you can always have a private interest if, for example, you have an interest in it. is something that concerns one's land, house or vicinity. Then there are some organisations that have a special right to complain, and that is because they say that some people have to speak up for nature. It is not one person who does this, but a number of people who come together and form associations with special areas of interest, for example. Danish Ornithological Association, which is interested in birds, or the Danish Sports Fishermen's Association, which is interested in fish, or the Danish Nature Conservation Association, which wants a better and richer nature. The associations are then given a special opportunity to complain, and that is, in fact, super relevant, because otherwise no one will do it on behalf of nature, on behalf of the watercourses. That is why it is very important for these organisations to have direct access and good access to complaining, just as every citizen must have that right. The alternative is against this proposal, and there are several reasons for this. So we have nothing against the exercise of bringing together the Boards of Appeal and making things run more smoothly; that may always be necessary. So merging things together will all the other things just be able to give a more uniform, fairer, more equal complaint process, but there is, as I see it, no guarantee that we will have something more equal, fairer and better handling. What is the primary reason why we cannot agree to this bill is, of course, that you set the fee to complain violently. This means that there will be a barrier, i.e. when private people have to find 900 kroner, if you like. It seems that a municipality has made a wrong decision that does not comply with the rules of the law. It is not political, but a question of whether the municipality has made a decision that it is allowed to make. And if you want to go in there and put an index finger in the air, you need 900 kroner. If you are an organization or company, it is now DKK 1,800. is already a high fee. So it is the democratic right that is being put at the forefront here. It's being seriously threatened by the coming of this barrier. So we're suggesting if we're gonna go into this and be positive that the complaint fee goes down again, while we're gonna agree to try to pool these advices and boards. We suggest either the old level or that you might go down to 100 kroner. for private and 300 DKK. for organisations and companies. It should be the same for all areas. After all, today there are no complaints fees in a number of areas, particularly in agriculture and food. That is to say, there is no overall reasoning that we are now generally going to raise this fee; it is something that is being done specifically for nature and the environment. Then I would also agree with Sustainable Agriculture that I did not just intend to do so, but I would like to see a longer payment period than the 14 days. Then we would also like to bring in more expert members. Two in these very broad areas can become too narrow, both in terms of probability, but also in terms of whether one can cover those very large, complex subject areas which are actually here. So we propose, like the Nature Conservation Society, that there are four experts in each area and two alternates. This is also something that Agriculture & Food supports. Then we also think that some issues are missing. Environmental damage, conservation and genetic engineering are mentioned in some of the consultation responses as missing areas. Then we also think, as the Enhedslisten points out, that the current seven medical members are a good number. It weakens democratic participation by reducing it to 4. So, as things stand today, we are against the proposal, but we would like to talk about improvements and look at where we can meet.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111110942	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111110952	This part, i.e. L 44, is the other half, you might say, of L 42, which we dealt with the other day, where we chose to set up a Board of Enquiries and separate it from the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board, and it is to be seen as the implementation of an agreement that the Social Democratic Party has entered into with the government, DF and K, I think, but which we are not in. I would say that we have been through a process of talking about planning, as if it were such a communist planned economy, which is, like, about controlling everything and stopping everything, and that there are no things you have to do. But what we have to remember is why we have planning in Denmark at all. We do because we are a relatively small country and because we want some activities to take place in some places. We want there to be nature where there must be nature, we want there to be cities where there are towns and villages where there are villages and open land around. We would like it to be planned that if you put some industry, some production, some pig farm or something else, somewhere, there will be consideration for the neighbours, both in terms of smell, noise and other things. We would like there to be a link with the infrastructure so that we do not suddenly put a company in an area where a municipality cannot provide proper roads and where the large machines that have to drive there may destroy the roads that the rest of the citizens of society use. So in a country of the size of ours and where we want a lot of things, it is really wise to think planning and to think things together. So we are also very, very happy about how it is in relation to the wild fantasies that the Left started out with a year and a half ago, and which I can hear that the Liberal Alliance is still really going around dreaming, that is, that we are just taking away planning. Because then it's all gonna be so nice and so great, and then you can't really know if there's a pig farm in your backyard, and you can't really do anything, but it's just too bad, because it's just growth and development. You can't really do anything if there's a blacksmith company next door or anything else that makes there's a lot of hammering and other things, that's just too bad, because then the Liberal Alliance and the Left have got their wild dream that the market is doing everything on its own. So we are not in the Radical Left. There we think it is wise to think things along with a sense that does not do it too bureaucratic, but where we are also not naive, in relation to that, if you want nature, if you want open country, if you want respect for the neighbours, then you have to legislate on it. That is why we have a legislative proposal today that we cannot support. This is both because of some of the things that the alternative listed, i.e. in terms of the substance of the fact that there are simply too many areas that the experts have to cover and that there is a marked increase in fees from 500 DKK. to DKK 1,800, if you are an organization, and to DKK 900, if you are an ordinary citizen, and I can also be in doubt whether it meets the Aarhus Convention. And again we're sorry that you've separated the plan part from the nature and the environment, because it's a whole thing these things have to be seen in. So the Radical Left cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111111259	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111111318	Both this proposal and L 42, which we discussed on Tuesday, are a logical consequence of the government's policy on the environment and agriculture. A better balance is called when environmental and natural considerations are subject to considerations of agriculture and industry. But nature cannot speak on its own behalf, it cannot complain, and that is why it is so important to have access to complaints both for individuals and organisations, and that it is possible to complain and that the fee is not too high, and I agree with Mrs Ida Auken that this is probably on the edge of the Aarhus Convention or at least the intention of it, namely that there must be no economic barriers to being able to complain on behalf of nature. That is why we can say that, when the fee is raised quite dramatically, the more absurd it is that it is not, at the same time, a principle of equality between being able to complain in terms of nature and the environment for individuals and organisations, while it is free to complain on the part of agriculture. Then you could at least have said that you equate it here, and we think it's pretty absurd from the Danish side. As my colleagues from both the Alternative, Enhedslisten and the Radical Left have said, this is not just about changing the structure, but it is simply about what opportunities we have to see things in a context, and there is precisely how important planning is. Because if we do not have planning, then we do not have living villages, we do not have living cities, and we do not have the protection of natural areas and of the open country, and that is why this is a real, really bad bill. But that is related to what we were discussing the other day, and it has to be said that it is a natural consequence of what the government has repeatedly shown that it wants in this area, and therefore it cannot come as a surprise to anyone. But from the SF we can in no way support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111111537	Thank you to the rapporteur. And since the Left has spoken on behalf of Conservatives, it is now the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111111552	Thank you for that, President, and thank the rapporteurs for their contributions. It is quite true that the draft law forms part of the government's strategy to strengthen the appeal procedure with the collection of a number of different Boards of Appeal in the House of Names in Viborg. With the agreement on a better balance between Denmark and Denmark from June 2016, it has been agreed that the current Nature and Environmental Complaints Board will be closed and a new board structure for the planning area will be established. It has also been agreed that the fees for complaints must be increased and differentiated for all complaints falling within the scope of the current Nature and Environmental Complaints Board, and the procedures for complaints must in the long term be reduced to an average processing period of 6 months. The draft law on the Environment and Food Complaints Board reflects this ambition. That is why we are debating a proposal today, which means that a new board will be set up in the field of the environment and food, adapted to the tasks that will continue to be dealt with effectively and competently, but at an entirely new place of work with high levels of professional synergy and energy. The new board will be a secretariat officer in the House of Names in Viborg, giving access to streamlining and coordination of legal and professional procedures. This means that the procedures can be effectively controlled even if a case has questions to be tested on several boards. The Environmental and Food Complaints Board shall cover all natural and environmental matters under the existing Nature and Environmental Complaints Board and, in addition, all complaints about food, agriculture and fisheries matters, as well as complaints about decisions on coastal protection. It provides for the possibility of checking the professional judgements and estimates of some of the initial bodies when this is necessary to make a correct decision. This is new to the review that is taking place today in the Complaints Centre for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, and it is a change that is welcomed by the industry. On the whole, the draft law places clear emphasis on agile processing and guarantees of legal certainty and uniformity in the handling of complaints, so that bottlenecks and case bumps are reduced and resources are pooled and used optimally for the benefit of citizens and businesses. I also believe that the composition of the board with legal members, members of the medical profession and experts means that in future the board proceedings can be conducted more agile and efficiently, while maintaining a high level of professionalism. According to the proposal, the name becomes independent in relation to the decision of the individual cases. In short, independence is the whole of the hops and the advantage of legal certainty in a board structure. This is among other things. also that the mention itself must be able to decide to inspect places and locations without prior court order. The present Nature and Environmental Complaints Board can do so, and it is still a real power to give to the new board, so that matters can be clarified by the name itself. On the whole, the proposal extends the status quo to a large extent. This applies, among other things, to the complaints that will henceforth be subject to a fee in the Environmental and Food Complaints Board. When matters relating to agriculture and food are kept free of charge, it is a sign that we are not touching the applicable law vis-à-vis businesses. The government sees this as a balanced approach. I would like to end with these words and look forward to the committee's reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111111847	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111111852	Thank you. I just have to dive into this with fees, because there is a very central democratic discussion about why we have fees for this. This is not an area where it can be said that it has to be financed, because then it would be much more expensive. This is a question of our democratic system having a right that allows every citizen to say: hey, that decision does not seem to be right. Is there anyone with a greater insight who can evaluate it? We have put this on the line with the help of these Boards of Appeal, and it is extremely important. We also know that there are very few people who may over-exploit the system and complain about everything, not the professional organisations, but perhaps some citizens around. Sometimes there's stories about that. In relation to how else to regulate that behaviour, we have in the alternative among others. Talked about whether you could work with a number of posters. In other words, they say that every citizen has the right to complain, but when you have complained five times in one year, you have to find two other contributors who would like to take part in the complaint that you are now sending, or that we somehow guarantee the democratic right that lies in the system of complaints.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111112007	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111112009	Well, we certainly have a democratic right today, and it is beneficial that there is a cost to it. For large systems are set in motion, it can delay large projects of high value to society, and therefore it is essential to set up some fees that regulate it. Whether or not to do other thematics about complaints in general, we do not follow up here. But the alternative is welcome to make both motions for resolutions and the like on such matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111112038	Sir. Christian Poll, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111112041	But if that is the logic, then we should also put charges on those areas, such as the environment. Agriculture and food, where there are no charges today. So there has to be a logic about wanting to have fewer complaints in this area. I can see that it makes sense to have fewer complaints that make no sense, that is, from people who just automatically shoot off complaints. However, it does not make sense to impede the democratic right of every citizen, which is the DKK 900. will do. 900 kr. is much money for the vast majority of people in Denmark on a decision that concerns themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111112116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111112118	I certainly agree with Mr. Christian Poll in that 900 DKK. is a lot of money too far, by far the majority of people, but when you think about the cost of launching a complaint in the public system, it must definitely be kept up against citizens' access to complaining too, and we find that a sensible rent here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111112136	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111112140	If you like to try to limit the fact that there are too many complaints, it is really strange that you keep it at $0. for the agricultural industry to complain. Because there are sometimes companies that are quite large, and for such a company it would not be important to have to pay 900 kroner. to be allowed to complain about a decision which perhaps involved a very large increase in animal production. I do not really think there is any connection in the Minister's comments on this. I do not think there is any justification for increasing the fees for ordinary citizens and associations, while at the same time maintaining that the agricultural industry has to pay nothing at all, despite the fact that we have an agricultural industry which, in terms of size, is growing and where some are becoming more and more professional. There would be a fee of 900 kroner. Don't matter. So I do not really think there is any basis for the argument used by the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111112236	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111112237	The rapporteur is welcome to say so, but we in the government believe that there is an extremely good team in this area, not least because it is people's profession that is affected by this. The agreement does not therefore provide for any change in it. There is a very large difference between whether a citizen who has no self-interest in a case can complain without having any costs or whether a company that is faced with high costs in relation to its operation can. So that's why there's great sense in this setup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111112305	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111112308	What the Minister describes as self-interest may in fact be something that concerns the value of life for many families. Therefore, I do not think that it is just a matter of self-interest and whether it might have some meaning for one's property value. It's kind of something that's much, much bigger. I have a second question. I do not think it has been made clear in the consultation answer whether this bill will be in conflict with the Aarhus Convention; it just says that it will not. What price level would that have to be in order for this to be known illegally in relation to the previous decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111112346	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111112348	We are dealing with whether it complies with the conventions it has to comply with. It is our view that it does, and we have not been able to differentiate between when a ceiling might be reached in relation to the Aarhus Convention. It complies with the conventions it has to observe. That is what matters to the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111112401	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111112422	The debate is open. And this is sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111112432	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to highlight the good cooperation we have in the Danish Parliament and, in particular, in the Danish Parliament's Finance Committee with the secretariat and the Presidency of the Economic Council. Each year the Economic Council publishes three reports, two from the Economic Council and one from the Environmental Economic Council. These are products of a very high professional level and with great independence and therefore high credibility. The legislative proposal we are currently considering extends the scope of the Economic Council's tasks and activities to productivity councils. In the Social Democratic Party we find it extremely relevant that the work should be supplemented by ongoing productivity analyses. It is an important political tool to clarify how we ensure productivity growth in Denmark. In addition, the following or explaining principle is laid down in the annual assessment by the Economic Council of the sustainability of long-term public finances as a result of Paragraph 1 (1). 2 of the applicable law. This, too, is indisputablely sensible. This gives me the opportunity to reflect briefly on the recent assessment of the Danish economy by the Economic Council. Here the Danish economy is assessed to be viable, but it is also established that in the short term there is a concern in relation to the measures proposed by the government in its 2025 plan. The Council therefore advises against the implementation of unfinanced reductions before there is greater certainty that the expected strengthening of public finances will be achieved. The Council therefore points out that, inter alia: due to the uncertainty associated with the government's assumptions in certain areas. I note that the paper stresses that public expenditure is also likely to increase labour supply and productivity and that the overall effects of financing tax cuts with a reduction in public consumption may therefore be overestimated. It is a criticism that the government, surprisingly enough, has been silent about, and therefore it is good to confirm the follow-up or explanation principle. Let me also mention that I have taken note of the fact that, like myself, the Council states that the effects on GDP growth resulting from the government's proposals for the so-called ACE allowance appear to be extremely uncertain. Both the Economic Council and the Environmental Economic Council have an empty seat today. Here the government is preparing to fill the vacant seat of the Economic Council with a representative from the think tank CEPOS, while proposing to close the vacant seat of the Environmental Economic Council. In the social democracy we do not actually understand that difference. It would be more logical to either seek to fill both vacant places or none of them. If so, who should have a place in the Environmental Economic Council, then we have not been determined, but we must call on the Minister to consider whether it would not make sense to have such a more uniform approach to appointments. We have also noted that the Danish Employers' Association does not support the appointment of CEPOS as a representative of the employers' side in their response to the consultation. I have also noted that the Government considers that, by virtue of their representation, the AE Council should also be seen as a representative of a think tank. Here, however, the Social Democratic Party believes that it is essential to maintain that the AE Council is represented because they are appointed as a representative of the worker side. Thinking should not in itself be entitled to place in the Economic Council, and that, of course, opens the way to a discussion of which other think tanks are going to be further into the future. The natural thing would be if the representative of the vacant place were appointed in such a way that it was a broader crowd who could appoint a representative. It could then be the CEPOS's, we should not stand in the way of that. But why? Yes, because we do not think it is an independent qualification in this context to be a think tank. The fact that workers feel best represented through the AE Council and thus by Professor Per Kongshøj Madsen is their choice, but also a choice that can be changed if they wish. I assume that if you represent a group of stakeholders, you will naturally base a professionalism criterion on the nomination of a representative, and if that representative does not work well enough and exists too easily, then change. It is healthy, it is natural, and such naturalness I fear is lacking in this context. Finally, I should like to express a small concern, as I have noted that the CEPOS generally contributes very little with consultation responses in the legislative process. It is my expectation that every formal and informal channel available will be used if we wish to contribute constructively to society. And here the consultation tool is very important. Of course, it is also important to take part in the debate on society, but there you are often interrupted, for example. If you are taking part in a debate programme on DR2 and therefore have high regard for participation in councils and boards and therefore also in hearings in my view. Social democracy can support the intention of the bill, but, as I said, there are some corners that we hope the Minister will be prepared to discuss in committee before the bill comes to second reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111112952	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111113000	Thank you for that, President. Here we have the law amending the Law on the Economic Council and the Environmental Economic Council. As the former rapporteur, the Danish People's Party can also fully support some of the changes that are here, including: to correct some names of the members in force, for example that the Agricultural Council will be called Agriculture & Food, etc. The Danish People's Party also very much agrees with the government that following or explaining the principle is a very good principle. It is, in fact, a principle that should be put behind the ear in several cases, i.e. follow or explain the principle. We certainly also think that this is important in relation to the Economic Council and the Environmental Economic Council, also in the light of understanding and the way in which we politicians use the recommendations that come from the two councils. So we are very much in favour of that principle being introduced into this work too. What is interesting in the proposal here is, as the previous rapporteur also mentioned, that the think tank CEPOS is now coming into the Economic Council. It is true that the AE Council is also part of the work today, and that is why we do not see it as such a problem that a think tank enters. What we also see is that in the future it will also open up the possibility of having a discussion about what think tanks are. In the Danish People's Party we actually wanted to see a think tank that was more conservative at some point. How would you look at it if that think tank came? We have to recognise that the CEPOS is a liberal think tank, and we know this and we look at it openly, and we also know the CEPOS's approach to economic policy. We can handle that. But we also see it as an opening for parties on each side of the centre to now also have the opportunity to discuss the composition of the Economic Council and the Environmental Economic Council. We think that is a worthy debate to take. That is why we would also like to discuss it in committee. For what kind of decision are we making today? Is it a decision that there are some who come into the Council, or is it a decision in principle that this is another way in which the Council should be composed in the future? That is what we will be using the committee procedure to do, so hopefully we will have an open discussion on it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111113251	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jacob Jensen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111113259	Thank you. I think that the two previous rapporteurs have described in an excellent way the substance of the proposal here, so it should be left unsaid in my rapporteur's speech, except to refer to what has emerged in the past. I will then instead concentrate on what I think is essential. There are, of course, several things that are important, but the fact that I think we agree on is that the Economic Council is now being asked to focus on just looking at the productivity of Danish society. We have had a tendency over the years to let our political efforts measure how many dollars and dollars, billions, and what do I know we have spent on different purposes? If we had spent x billion more on health, we would be x billion better than those who had not spent that money, and so on. I think that is the most important thing, both from the point of view of taxpayers, it is of course those who pay the money, but also those who need the public sector in different contexts, that you do not have the focus, at least, on how much money is spent, but how the money is spent and what comes out of the money. This is a trade, for example. about productivity and how effective you are, how skilled you are at developing, learning from each other, making the most of the skills that we have among employees and technologies, and what it all says. That is why I think it is very, very good that with this proposal we are now also making the Economic Council look more systematically at how productivity is developing in the Danish society • a society that has high taxes and a high level of expenditure, but where we can see many times that the results that come out of it may not always be as good as one might expect. So I actually think that's the most important and most important thing in this context. Then, of course, I took note of the fact that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht very elegantly just used the opportunity here to mention unfinanced tax reliefs and other expenses. I am very pleased that this is being said, because I assume that this also applies to the other way round, i.e. that you then refrain from making unfunded promises. It could be in the form of a train fund or a proposal for increased aid for developing countries or a ceiling on cash aid that must be removed, that the integration benefit should be removed, increased cultural support and, at the very least, increased public spending, without any provision being made for funding to do so. So I am quite confident that this is how it should be understood by the Social Democrats. It is, of course, a side remark, but it was just a reflection on it, sir. Benny Engelbrecht was around. My main focus here is that we now have the opportunity, through the Economic Council, to have systematic and well-worked reports and analyses and recommendations on productivity. I'd like to go there, too, as sir. Benny Engelbrecht mentioned in his speech, who signed up for the cooperation that exists and for the quality of the things that are from the Economic Council when they come up with the various reports that we also take down and discuss in detail in the Committee on Finance and in other contexts. I think this is a very fine institution, and it also has the arm's length arm's-length, one might say that there should be a political system. I cannot help saying that when there is talk of composition and that this is a major problem for some, I understand that the EPOS should come in, but that it is not a problem that the AE Council sits there, that the Social Democracy is represented in the Economic Council via the AE Council, with representatives on the board, even leading social democrats. So I think that exactly that argument sounds a little hollow if it were to be based on the idea that one should be independent. But I think it's very good that we get this nuanced approach to it, so that both the AE Council and the CEPOS and all sorts of other good forces can help to bring different elements into the economic, political debate and into a more systematic forum than I do, and that is where I share both Mr. The opinion of Benny Engelbrecht and others may be the general public debate, where there may well be a tendency, if I may say so, to be a little interrupted sometimes. So I think that's very, very fine. But, of course, we will not be completely sloppy and steel-stacked on what a given composition should look like. I think the proposal here is very balanced and very fine, but will of course look forward to the comments that both the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and, incidentally, other parties wishing to participate in this will make during the committee work. We will, of course, take that on a normal basis. But, of course, we in the Left can support the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111113739	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111113743	If the rapporteur of the Left even misplaces what I say in my rapporteur's speech, then I will have to correct him. I am not going to be a taster of who will sit in the Economic Council. What I am pointing out is that I think it is wrong that the Social Democrats think it is wrong to appoint members of the Council because they represent think tanks. If it is the case that a process can be found so that the vacant seat in the Economic Council can be filled through the representatives it will naturally appoint representatives, in this case the employer side, and then it ends up being CEPOS, then we have no problem with it. But because you represent someone like the CEPOS, as you do in this case, or someone like the AE council or others, you are kept sharp: natural competition ensures that you do your job properly. I therefore hope that this is also a principle which the Left considers to be good and sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111113837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111113841	Yeah, well, I think it's good and sensible that you have a composition, and then I'm a little less concerned about the process. Of course, you can have a little different views on that, but I think it is important to look at what the composition of the Economic Council is, which should reflect different approaches to it. Well, there are some who think that the economy is like two lines below the result, and then it is a given matter. Of course it isn't. There are a lot of prerequisites and all sorts of other things that are involved there. That is why it is precisely important, I think, that we have different approaches to it, and then we can take it down from the recommendations of the Economic Council, as we have always done, and use it in a political context. But the fact that you have different inputs from different starting points, I think it's a strength, and I think it's going to be with the composition that's being set up with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111113924	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111113927	That is why the Social Democrats' point is also very simple: we should represent different views of society, and there is no discussion about that. What the discussion is about is whether one should be able to have a place alone because one represents a think tank. There is the challenge, of course, that the moment you open that Pandora's box, there are all kinds of think tanks in the world that will stand in a long line of cows. There comes one think tank after another of more or less merit, and where should we set the limit?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111113959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111114002	Well, I think it's a fair point to travel and, as I said, I think we should have a chat about it quite quietly in committee work. I also understood that the Danish People's Party had some comments on this. So let us take that into account in the committee work. We are not insecure, we are in other areas, but we think it is a good proposal. I am very pleased that the EPOS will be involved in this, but whether we should have a fundamental discussion on the issue that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht travels here, I'll be completely open to doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111114025	Thank you, sir. Jacob Jensen. The next rapporteur is Pelle Dragsted from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111114033	Thank you. As I said, the proposal contains three elements. Firstly, we want to invite the so-called think tank CEPOS into the Board of Governors of the Economic Council; secondly, we want to set up a kind of permanent productivity commission under the DORS; and thirdly, we want to introduce the follow-up or explanation principle in relation to the wise men's assessment of the sustainability of the budget rules, so that the government has to explain itself if it deviates from the wise men's recommendations. I will start with the question of CEPOS. I have to admit, I pulled a little bit on the smile tape when I saw the news that the government wanted this ultraliberal CEPOS into DORS. In other words, this is not so crucial, because it is a place in a representativeship which meets quite rarely and which probably does not have the decisive influence on the line taken by the wise men, but I think that the CEPOS should be given a kind of blue stamp, that is, a kind of scientific character, which one can seriously question whether the CEPOS deserves. It has therefore happened repeatedly that their calculations have been seriously questioned by the scientific community. We have seen methodological errors in the matter of inequality in health, we have seen it in the case of immigration expenditure, and we have seen it in a number of other cases. There has also been a discussion of the independence of the CEPOS. After all, CEPOS produced a report that showed that wind energy leads to sky-high prices in Denmark. It was intended for the American public and was then paid by the American oil industry. This is the kind of thing that I think makes a lot of Danes probably perceive the CEPOS more as politics than as science, and as a rather strong, perhaps one of the strongest politicians of the so-called think tanks. So to give them the recognition that lies in this, I think we can discuss reason in it. On the other hand, one might also ask whether it is going to cast doubt on the credibility of the economic wise men. So I entirely agree with the comments made by the Social Democrat rapporteur, that is to say, the fact that, as I have at least been informed, the AE has been appointed by the employees' side and therefore not, if I may say so, by the government or parliament to sit in there. And the employers' side could choose to do that with CEPOS, but I have noted there that it does not want the employers' side at all. So it must be a special wish of the government that this is the way it should be, but the Minister can of course answer why one disagrees with the employer side in this and why one does not leave it to them to make that decision. The second element of productivity is interesting. It is a little interesting that this is probably what might be called an over-implementation of the rules of the European Union; that is something the government says you are against, but it is so obviously a little determined by whether it is something the government itself thinks is a good idea. It's a really good idea to look at our productivity. But I can be a little concerned about whether there will be a balanced assessment of this, because when we look at the conclusions of the Productivity Commission, we can see that there are some rather violent imbalances in it; that is, the President was actually some time after that having to go out and deny his own conclusions about the opportunities that existed for savings in the public sector. There is an extreme, I think, overestimate of the effects, for example. in the context of privatisation and outsourcing, given that a number of the negative externalities, which are also linked to outsourcing, are not taken into account at all. So what is crucial here is what it is to look at productivity that you want to take. Will it be balanced? Will we look at productivity in different sectors? And I think it's interesting, for example. The report by the National Bank points out that productivity is quite high in many sectors, but that where it lags, there are mining and transport industries, in other words container transport. And when you use the productivity here to say that we need tax cuts for business, you might ask yourself whether the international freight rates and the oil price do not care if we lower the top tax in Denmark. So I think it makes sense to look at productivity if you get a thorough, balanced statement that we, as politicians, can take a position on. The question then is whether or not we have confidence in it, and we must try to clarify that during the committee procedure. In relation to the follow-up or explanation principle, I would like to say that we think it is excellent. This should perhaps be extended to other wise men's recommendations, but as a starting point we think it is sensible. We will take a position on our final position on this proposal during the committee's reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111114558	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111114603	I think it is a pity when you discuss a bill on serious actors in Danish society, where one of them should then be a member of the Economic Council, that you start using abusive words instead of just speaking cleanly and with arguments. Well, the expression an ultraliberal think tank is not the correct term. Well, it's a liberal think tank, it's not ultra, it's no more ultra than Enhedslisten. It is certainly much less ultra than Enhedslisten. We do not walk around here in Parliament and call the Enhedslisten ultrasocialists or neocommunists or the like. This is a rather poor way of debating, but of course it lays the tone for what comes later in Pelle Dragsted's speech, namely to say that because there are some on the left who have been critical of some reports by the CEPOS, there is, according to Mr Dragsted, that there are some on the left who have been critical of some reports by the CEPOS. Pelle Dragsted raised serious criticism of the achievements of the CEPOS. I remember one report by the EPOS, about which serious criticism was raised. It was about wind, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted mentioned, but with regard to the other things that Mr. Pelle Dragsted mentions the serious criticism raised by Mr. Pelle Dragsted here tell about people who are not themselves left-wing like Mr. Pelle Dragsted, who has made that criticism?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111114724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111114726	Now I'm actually a little surprised that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen sees ultraliberalism as a scold. I actually thought that the Liberal Alliance was so proud to be so out on the liberal side. Moreover, with regard to the concept of liberalism, I would say that I consider myself to be so liberal, and I think most people in this House do. What we're talking about isn't whether you're a liberal or not. What we are talking about is whether we support a liberalist policy which basically aims to change the way that Danish society works. That is what the CEPOS stands for. I think that is an honest matter. But I see them as a voice far, far out on the right, and I think most other Danes do. That's not a word of reproach. It's just a statement of how I see it, and of course Mr. Ole Birk Olesen allowed to look at it in a different way. In relation to who criticized the CEPOS, I have to say that for one of the stories about the fact that the CEPOS was out with a report on inequality in health, where they, like they said, do not have this inequality in health as there is, it was therefore, among other things, as far as I can see, the chairman of Djøf, or at least a representative of Djøf, who was looking at some serious methodological doubts about that report. It's just an example.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111114838	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111114840	Congratulations, sir. Pelle Dragsted may mention a source of trade unionism which has been critical of a report by the CEPOS, but it does not deny that it is not serious criticism from researchers, such as Mr Pelle Dragsted. Pelle Dragsted can leave. Then Mr. Pelle Dragsted with the scolding. Now it is not only the CEPOS which is ultra. It is also the Liberal Alliance, which is ultra. And that's a scold word when it comes out of Mr. Simpson's office. Pelle Dragsted's mouth, just as it would be an insult if I went around calling Enhedslisten ultrasocialists or neocommunists or the like. Then it would be a scolding word too. I do not do that because I think we should be able to debate arguments rather than abusively. But that puts a good tone for Mr. Pelle Dragsted's other criticism of the EPOS that it is merely a scorn, and then it is someone who may be a member of Djøf who has said something critical about the EPOS at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111114933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111114935	As I said, there are several other similar examples. There were also a number of scientists who were criticizing this wind power thing. I would like to say that, in relation to this matter of •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra •ultra Ole Birk Personally, I feel that if Ole Birk Olesen calls me an ultrasocialist because I am really a socialist and really want to create a fairer distribution of wealth in society and democratisation of the economy, then I will take it more as a praise than as a scorn word. I agree, however, that what we have to debate in here is attitudes and not putting labels on each other. So if that's what Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, it has been noted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111115019	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111115023	It's for mr. Pelle Dragsted's concern, or how to perceive it, that the CEPOS is not a real think tank, but rather a politicising institution. At the same time, as you know, the AE Council is already in the Economic Council. So I just want to ask how Enhedslisten sees the AE Council in terms of being independent political, when the AE Council at the same time has the composition that the AE Council has, where one among others. find a Mrs. Mette Frederiksen and a Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen as a member of the AE Council. Does this mean that the AE Council is completely independent politically and can therefore give its calculations and its recommendations in connection with the work of the Economic Council without any distinction or regard for political observation?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111115106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111115109	Let me divide the answer into two. I see the AE council as a more credible player than the CEPOS. As to whether they are independent politically, I would like to say that, as you yourself say, the AE Council is, of course, the Workers' Council. The Council has therefore been created by the workers' movement and, as far as I know, in their advisory councils, at least when they started, people from the Social Democratic Party, just like the CEPOS, have several prominent right-wing politicians. I can't remember if that's still the case. But for me, it is not so much about political independence; it is more about whether or not one somehow creates recognition of a think tank which I think has proved to be highly politicising. The latest story is from today, when the EPOS goes out and praises New Citizens' in my view. I now have to watch out for the scolding of very far-reaching proposals, and then you will find out afterwards that it is not so strange that they praise it, because they themselves have done the calculations. It's just one of those things that can make me say hmm.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111115211	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111115214	I can then say hmm back again, because I think that sir... Pelle Dragsted mixes things up here. If you do not agree politically, you are in Mr. Apparently, Pelle Dragsted's optics aren't credible. Sir. Pelle Dragsted started his rapporteur's speech by being concerned about whether the EPOS was politically independent, and it is only my question that one can then accept that the AE Council is part of the Economic Council, since I can now show that the Social Democratic President and Group Chairman are members of the AE Council. And when sir... Pelle Dragsted, at the same time, has a concern as to whether the EPOS can act as an independent political institution, so it is just my question: how can one accept that the AE Council is involved if one has the intention of being independent politically?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111115300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111115302	I don't think I've ever said that I can't accept the CEPOS being involved. I've just said that I'm a little worried about jewelrying a think tank that I think has been subjected to a lot of criticism of their methodology and other things, with some feathers that they don't deserve in relation to this. With regard to who is sitting there, I would like to say that I can only agree with what the Socialist rapporteur said, namely that it is quite fine if the selection is made from the employer's side, because then it is also very clear what it is that the CEPOS represents that too, I think, is obvious for any interests of the employer's side, while the AE Council is elected by the employees' side. I think that might be more correct. If we're going to have think tanks, what about Cevea, don't we need to get them in? What about the Concito? What about Kraka? Where is it stopping? There is a risk that it will be too arbitrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111115401	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111115409	We have here a legislative proposal which has at least two essential elements. The first is the desire to provide the Economic Council with a productivity council to publish reports and advise politicians on how to increase productivity in society on the basis that higher productivity is the prerequisite for higher prosperity. We think this is a very good idea. In the political debate in Denmark we often tend to look at the economy alone as the economy of the state finances; so, if a proposal is good for the state finances, it is also good for the whole of society, we sometimes think here in the Folketing. Economic wise men have also at times had a band of the same skin, so the sustainability of government finances has been more concerned than with the prosperity of society. The prosperity of society is, after all, a greater economy than the prosperity of government finances alone........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Let me mention some taxes that are very damaging to the prosperity of society and bring disproportionately little into the treasury. The registration fee on cars. Economic estimates range widely, including from the Ministry of Finance. A few years ago we were told that if the registration tax on cars was reduced by 100 million. kr. for the Danes., there would be only 5 million. kr. less in the Treasury. That illustrates it very well. Yes, the registration fee makes the Treasury 5 million. kr. richer, also the last percentages charged, but the same percentages make the Danes 100 million. kr. poorer because so much economic activity is being destroyed by this tax that what is being destroyed in society is much greater than what is being contributed to state finances. You can also take such things as corporation tax on companies. We also know there that the wealth lost in society is considerably greater than the contribution of corporate tax to government finances. These are not quite as large figures as the registration fee, but still. If that's the case, for every time you charge 100 kr. in corporation tax, the Treasury will in fact only be about 80 kroner. richer, because the activity of society that would have benefited society and the treasury in the process is being destroyed, the question is whether it is a good prey. Is it better that the Treasury has 80 kroner than that society as a whole has 100 kroner?? Yes, it certainly requires that you use the 80 kroner. Very sensible, even more sensible than the citizens would have done with the 100 kroner, and that is not always the case. So it is good that the wise men, the Economic Council, should now have a productivity council to look at it and not just at state finances. On the composition, I would like to say that I think it is a good thing that there are actors in the Economic Council who are not linked to organisational interests. It has been said that employers do not want CEPOS on the council, they would rather have the opportunity to appoint a representative themselves. But for me, it is not a goal for all the actors in the Economic Council to represent the strength of the organisation in Denmark that it really isn't! If it were the case that there was a serious left-wing think tank that had worked seriously for many years and made significant contributions to the Danish community's public debate, then I would think that this left-wing think tank should replace the AE Council, because the AE Council is also merely an extension of organised organizational interests on the employees' side here. We do not have such a think tank on the left today. We do not have a serious left-wing think tank today that would replace the AE Council. So we're gonna have to settle for the AE council. But the day it arises, I think the AE council should be replaced by a serious left-wing think tank. That is why I think we can start with a serious liberal think tank such as the CEPOS, which may at some point be accompanied by a serious left-wing think tank.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111115919	There is a brief comment from Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111115923	There is, in fact, a counterpart on the left, Cevea. It is true that they do not have the participation in the back of the CEPOS, but it is there, and I think it would be a natural countermove if the CEPOS were finally accepted that Cevea was also represented. Of course, I would also like to hear what Mr. Ole Birk Olesen thinks about it. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen says this because it doesn't pay to collect these taxes because the costs are too high. But what Mr. Ole Birk Olesen forgets in that equation, is that if you're going to lower these taxes, then the money has to be taken from somewhere, for example. from our childcare services, e.g. from our education, for example. from our health system. After all, it also has dynamic effects, I would say to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. It also has effects on our productivity, it also has effects on our prosperity, and that is the part of the calculation that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen often forgets, and you can also be concerned that this new productivity council will take sufficient account.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111120025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111120028	I said if there was a serious left-wing think tank, I think it should replace AE. In an economic debate, I do not regard Cevea as a serious left-wing think tank. Maybe it's left-wing, but it's not serious. This is partly due to the fact that I know there is not a single economist employed by Cevea. To do economic science, economic research, in my view, requires an economic education. Cevea has a lot of scient.pol.er employed, but I do not know any cand.polit.er or cand.oecon.er and certainly not any cand.polit.er or cand.oecon.er who has experience or research background that can justify calling Cevea a serious player in an economic debate. Public spending can also increase productivity in society, but some public spending lowers productivity in society. So if the savings we find to reduce taxes come from public spending that reduces productivity in society, we have a productivity gain. Here are two public expenditures that reduce productivity in society: the early pay and state aid to business enterprises. The two things reduce productivity in society, so if you save on that expense and even use it for productivity-increasing tax cuts, then you have double profits.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111120143	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111120145	For example, a very large proportion of business support is provided. support for our free media, so we actually have free media and not Murdoche-owned media, as in many other countries. So it is little here that very one-sided look at the economy, which the Liberal Alliance unfortunately represents. This also applies to the registration fee. Well, there could be some other considerations than purely state finance. It's very funny that sir. Ole Birk Olesen says first that it is not about the Treasury, and yet it is used as an argument. After all, we have a very great desire to move people from private carism to public transport, simply because it is necessary if we are not to get into a global warming of our planet. So sometimes there are other considerations, I would say to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Then I'll just have to make one last comment on this. If it's not a little irresponsible, I'd like to ask Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen told me to use vocabulary about yours truly, and then afterward called Cevea a rogue think tank. Yes, there are economists in Cevea. As far as I know, the director is a trained economist, and the outgoing head of analysis, Frank Skov, is also an economist. So I think I can say a clear no to that, as far as I am aware.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111120254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111120256	That's a lot of things, and it's hard to remember it all and answer it in 30 seconds. But you can argue for business support, and Mr. Pelle Dragsted just done, but one cannot argue for it on the grounds that it increases productivity in society, because it does not. As far as economists in Cevea are concerned, Kristian Weise is not familiar to me with educated cand.polit. or cand.oecon. I think he has an education from Roskilde University or Aalborg University or the like, but neither cand.polit. or cand.oecon. Whoever is departing from Cevea cannot be used to argue that there are economists in Cevea today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111120347	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. And welcome to Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111120355	Thank you. Yes, at first sight this may seem like a positive proposal, but when we read through the proposal, we believe that the kind of productivity we are aiming for is an excessively one-sided form of productivity; it is a one-sided objective of GDP that we are pursuing. Our concern is also with regard to what we really need to do with this productivity and why we need to be more productive. Should we become more productive so that we can produce more things, consume more, export more and compete harder? Should we become more productive so that we can run faster in the big growth wheel? We do not think so in the alternative. Instead, we need to have a broader perspective focusing on all three bottom lines and not only the economic, but also the social bottom line and the environmental and climate bottom line. What we need to do with increased productivity is to be better and smarter in creating value, not only economically, but also in terms of climate and for each other. So we need an increase in productivity, for example. to be able to keep more free, burden the environment much less and preserve our prosperity. For it is not a gain in itself to have increased productivity if we use productivity for the wrong thing. As it is today, the understanding of productivity is far too narrow and merely a continuation of the blind growth paradigm that GDP is creating. Therefore, we are keen to ensure that future analyses of Denmark's productivity take a broad and nuanced perspective with input from all sides and with a focus on the three bottom lines and not just one-sided focus on GDP. We will therefore ask in committee exactly what analyses are intended to be used so that the wise men can have a broad approach to what increases our productivity and what productivity we want. We believe, for example. the fact that education, equality, trust, knowledge sharing, social relations and creativity are important prerequisites for innovation and that those factors are also essential for the transition from a competitive society to a balanced society. We are positive about following or explaining the legal principle, as it strengthens fiscal openness and transparency, for example. in relation to the assumptions underlying different calculations. However, we believe that the follow-up or explanation principle should be extended to all elements of the monitoring of financial policy by the wise men, and not only the correction mechanism of the budget law and provisions on exceptional circumstances, as the proposal says. In relation to who should be in it, I would say that in the alternative, in general, we are opposed to the tendency for private think tanks to have more and more influence in society. We support the Danish model, and that is why we propose that it be the social partners, employees' and employers' organisations respectively, who must have the decisive influence to appoint them. We would like to wait for a position on how we deal with this bill and we would like to put a number of questions to the committee, which among other things. will be about which specific factors behind the development of productivity the economic wise should focus on and measure on. For us, it is essential that we make sure that they look at all three bottom lines and have the opportunity to incorporate them. What are the government's plans for the ongoing productivity assessments to be used for? Finally, what is the government's argument not to extend the follow-up or explanation principle to all elements of the wise men's supervision of financial policy? Those were supposed to be the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111120820	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111120824	Productivity is only about one specific thing: how well you use the resources that are available to produce some goods. Increased productivity can come from the fact that with the same amount of resources you can produce more or that you can produce the same with fewer resources. How can one question that it is a good thing for the whole of society with increased productivity, and how can one question what productivity at all is when it is so simple?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111120906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111120908	It is, of course, an issue which very well illustrates that we do not agree on what is good for society. An increase in productivity, as I also said in my speech, is something for me that will enable us to maintain our prosperity, but that at the same time we will feel better about how we feel as a society, it will increase equality in society. Increased productivity must also be created, bearing in mind that we do not burden the environment. So to me increased productivity will not be a good thing if it puts an environmental burden on the environment and if it harms all of us as human beings.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111120948	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111120950	But the environment is also a resource, so it is part of the concept of productivity that it is about being able to produce more with the same resources or being able to produce the same with fewer resources. And that should be a good thing for all people who understand what productivity is all about. Is the problem here that the alternative is not fully aware of what productivity is?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111121013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111121015	If you look at GDP, as among other things. If productivity is measured, it is obvious that GDP does not take account of the pressures which, for example, have to be borne in mind. is on the environment. And there it is that we want to spread GDP to be able to measure other things as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111121034	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, on behalf of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111121045	As several of you have said, we are discussing three elements of this bill. The first element is the idea of asking the Economic Council to carry out a productivity analysis once a year, following an agreement that has been reached in the European Union, and we think this is a sensible idea from a radical point of view. After all, what productivity we are talking about is an important discussion. We have both a narrow definition of productivity in relation to the value created; the hours we work; the companies we have; how much value we can put into the work. There is also a broader definition of productivity, which is about the productivity of society: how many are in the labour market? How much of the workforce is developing and its valuation? How many are outside the labour market? And if, therefore, we can increase the participation of more people in our labour market, which we also think is a very important element of a structural element, one might call it "to take part in the discussion on the productivity of a society." So we will call on the government and the Economic Council (DOOR) to include both perspectives in their annual analysis if this bill is adopted. The second element is then follow or explain the principle. You can always discuss what to legislate about that we may sometimes have to ask ourselves a little bit about this, but we have nothing against that principle. We think it is sensible and good, so it does not stand in the way of us voting in favour of this bill, which is excellent. The third element is the idea that we should start by saying that, if we are to be honest now, the importance of who is in this office should not be overestimated. It is, of course, one that meets after the Council has drawn up its report and can typically make some comments on it, but it is rarely, as I understand the procedure, some who have a decisive influence on the work of the Council. This may sometimes be regrettable, for inspiration is always good. But having said that, I think that our basic approach to this is that we cannot really use the argument that CEPOS is now going to have to take an employer's place if employers do not set the CEPOS to do so. If you have a recommendation procedure, in which it is, like the social partners, that each of them nominates their representatives, then it is natural to follow it, in other words, if you want the balance that the government is proposing here, I would say in all silence. Otherwise, another discussion which we would like to take part in the work of the committee, namely whether it would be an idea, apart from the representatives of the social partners, to invite several of the many excellent serious think tanks that have come into the work of the Economic Council and to inspire. And I have to say that I think it is such a rather strange argument that LA's rapporteur is arguing that it is only the CEPOS that is a serious think tank. I'm not quite unsatisfied. I recognize that when I helped make the green think tank CONCITO myself, but I think that it delivers, when you look at its secretariat, its employees, on its publications. Internationally respected reports form part of major international networks and thus gain inspiration in this area, i.e. what could be called the environmental economic area or the climate economy. So, of course, there are serious think tanks in addition to the CEPOS out there, and perhaps it is an idea in general to open the DOR to them, but then I think that one should take that discussion in committee and open up the possibility that not only the CEPOS, but also other serious organisations dealing with our economy, will be drawn into this work. So beard by itself and snot by itself will be our entrance to this. Let me say, as a final remark, that it has also been discussed whether one should try to have the Economic Council as such a kind of backup if one has an uncertainty in this Parliament about whether we get the right calculations and conclusions from the economic ministries on which the opposition is at all times very dependent. And, of course, we have had some discussions where at least some parties in the opposition have been slightly concerned about whether the government had been a little too far behind the conclusions that came from the ministries. There we have a fairly clean cut in the Radical Left. We believe that we should be based on trust in the economic ministries. We believe that this should be the starting point, but we could see that in some cases we could ask for a second opinion from the Economic Council, also because it is not necessarily an expression of mistrust, but may also indicate that in some of the areas we are working on there are different methodologies, different practices and also major technical discussions on elasticity, the effects of various economic measures, where it might also enrich the work of the economic ministries to involve the Economic Council. This is just a thought for discussion in the further work of the committee. However, we will be putting forward this discussion with a positive sign.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111121557	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111121559	I just need to straighten out, sir. Martin Lidegaard. I did not say that CEPOS is the only serious think tank in Denmark. I did not say that, because I also believe that, for example, there is a need for the European Parliament to have a say in this matter. Kraka is a serious economic think tank in Denmark. And I am sure there are others who are not concerned with the economy, but with climate, education or the like, which I do not know very well and are therefore unable to assess. I was asked whether Cevea was a serious economic think tank, and I can answer that in the negative. Because if you're going to be a good, serious economic think tank, you obviously have to employ some educated economists, and Cevea doesn't. So that's all I answered.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111121641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111121643	I'm sorry if I've put some words in Mr. Knox's mouth. Ole Birk Olesen, who I wasn't supposed to. I'll leave that safe and sound to Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen himself to explain. However, allow me to say that we may need to have a slightly broader approach than just the number of economists employed in a think tank when assessing its seriousness. Economics and, above all, environmental economics are an area which also calls for scientific insights and also calls for scientific calculations when it is ultimately to be translated into economic conclusions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111121717	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111121720	Yeah, well, I don't think that Mr. Martin Lidegaard is right. For what the Environmental Economic Council does is to make economic calculations based on scientific input, that is, on what these scientific inputs mean for the economy. That's the way economists should count on such a case, because you can't be a multitalent in this world and be an expert in, for example. both economics and biology or both economics and climates. It is, at any rate, quite difficult. So it's good that economists are counting on inputs coming from other professional groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111121759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111121800	But I agree with that. Perhaps I do not always think that the Environmental Economic Council is sufficiently involved in the scientific conclusions, that is to say, as one might wish. And that's why I didn't mind them being a little bit more inspired by the facts of that world.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111121816	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111121817	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his very fine and constructive and also nuanced remarks in, one might almost say, customary Martin Lidegaard-style I thought that was fine. But I have a question about what I think we share and which I hope we share, namely the desire for the Economic Council to be politically independent. I can see that, sir. Martin Lidegaard nods; I am glad of that, because then I can use the opportunity to ask: How does Mr. Mr Martin Lidegaard saw it when there are organisations and others who sit in the Economic Council, which can hardly be seen as politically independent when you have leading politicians sitting in your organisation? Is it not a problem in itself if we are to take a forward-looking view of the Economic Council, and hence of the analyses and recommendations they make, as politically independent and therefore of the quality of their political independence?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111121909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111121910	I am familiar with the practice of the Economic Council that, in relation to all reports, all the conclusions, it is the wise men who are professionally targeted, and then you have a secretariat that helps you to prepare those analyses, and that is done on an entirely independent basis, and so it should be. Then, in addition, the wise legislators have provided the Economic Council with a form of representation in which a large number of stakeholders, including some of a more political nature, have the opportunity to inspire the Economic Council, if I may say so. And as I started by saying, it is not my impression that it is an assembly that has a very great influence on the specific publications and perhaps should not have it either, but hopefully a circle that can develop and spar and inspire in relation to the methods then used in the secretariat. But it is indeed a delicate balance. But you have chosen to make one of these, you might say, professionally-slashed political backgrounds; there are also NGOs working with the environment, for example, and there are all sorts of others. I really think that basically is a very healthy mechanism to have. However, I agree that it is the wise men who ultimately measure the reports and that they should not be forced by anyone or anything to conclusions other than those for which they are targeted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111122033	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111122035	I'm really glad. What I am referring to, of course, is that the AE Council is sitting on the table, set by the employee side and with senior social democrats as part of their organisation. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen and Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen is on the AE Council, and they are also on the Economic Council. I guess you could also say in relation to just having to get inspired, and I guess I kind of agree with Mr. Martin Lidegaard in that sitting in the board of directors should not, of course, overestimate the influence of the fact that there is of course something fundamental in it. For then it might as well be said: why should we not then do it in such a way that all parties in the Folketing have one place in the board of directors? Then the Economic Council could also be inspired by it. Now it's just that the Social Democratic Party through the AE Council has two seats, and those seats have Mrs. Mette Frederiksen and Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen. I think that is a problem, but I should not interfere with that; that is, of course, the attitude that has been adopted. However, if we are debating in this Chamber that there should be independence, that there should be political arm's length, then I think we should also raise the flag that states that there is an organisation that is involved today that has members in leading positions, in that case here in the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111122140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111122140-2	Now we must also be careful not to wear too small shoes precisely when we take into account the influence or non-influence of the board of directors. In other words, I think it is a good thing that the social partners are represented, and the social partners must stop who they think should sit there. I know that it is not Mette Frederiksen who sits in the Economic Council itself on behalf of the trade union movement, but the Workers' Council sits there, and there she obviously has a seat on the Board of Directors, and I was not even aware of that. But I do feel that if the employer's side stops an organization to represent them and if they had to stop, for example. CEPOS, that's fine with me. It is not because I have something against the EPOS if employers would recommend them even if the EPOS on their board might have some leading Left Politicians sitting, but I have no idea whether that is the case, or some from the Liberal Alliance, or who could sit there. In other words, I am relatively relaxed about this as long as it is clear that it is the wise men who are the target of the professional reports.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111122240	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111122256	Thank you. I would like to comment on the three points contained in the draft law. The first thing, and it's a little special, is that you have to stand in the Parliament hall and discuss a named organisation... is precisely whether the EPOS should have a place on the council. As it is today, the council is composed, so it takes account of various social actors, social interest groups, employers, trade unions, the National Bank, the State, etc. Here it is special that CEPOS is not an employer's organisation. It says DA itself, DA does not want CEPOS to have an employer's seat but rather a liberal think tank. We could, of course, have a wide-ranging discussion on whether or not we should open up to that, but then let us take that discussion instead of having to legislate here, that an ideological think tank should come into a place which was intended by the employer, while at the same time denying DA. I think that's a little weird. But it's not the most important thing for us in the SF. The most important thing for us, and that is the second point, is to have this discussion on the concept of productivity. I have also tabled a motion for a resolution on behalf of the SF, which we will be discussing later this year, specifically on the economic accounting models, and that is also one of the issues we regularly discuss. And last, when we had the discussion a month ago, I thought the people behind DREAM said something very interesting. You said that we would like to count differently, but no one has ever asked us to do so. We'd like to take in more elements when we do our calculations. So it is very positive that we have that discussion, I think. Here, in this proposal, a very narrow concept of productivity, in short, GDP per head, is clearly laid down. Capital, or even more precisely: gross value added per capita hours of work. It is the same narrow concept that the government also operates with. And thus, we sanction in the SF's eyes to have this very narrow focus on GDP. GDP is absolutely important, but we also want to take this discussion on how productivity will also be a matter of, not just that the economy grows if there is a natural disaster or there is a car accident etc., but that we also take on the glasses that we can see far. This was also something that the rapporteur of the alternative was particularly concerned about. Then we will also have other elements, such as: health. We know that stress also costs a great deal on the economic bottom line, and the environment, the climate, nature should also be included as social productivity targets. So in this way we do not want to sanction the fact that we have this very, very narrow definition of productivity. We think it is very good that economic wise men are going to discuss productivity to a greater extent. That is not the part of what we are opposed to. Finally, I also think, and perhaps the Minister can answer this, that it is rather unclear whether the proposal also covers the public sector, which is, after all, something that KORA is already dealing with. As far as the third point is concerned, follow or explain, we in the SF agree with the Presidency's view that it should actually be a general rule which was written in that it may well be required that, if you choose not to follow any recommendations, you explain why. That's fair. There may also be political reasons for this, and there will often be, but it is reasonable to explain why you choose not to follow recommendations. So we're going to ask a lot of questions, but the most important thing for us in this discussion is that we're not ready to have to write in a productive task for the wise men, of course, but not with the method and definition set out in the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111122740	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Brian Mikkelsen of the Conservative People's Party, but I do not see him in the Chamber, so we go to the Finance Minister himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111122800	Thank you for your excellent contribution to the debate on the draft Economic Council. Over the years, the Economic Council has been an important forum for discussing major socio-economic issues, and the Economic Council must remain so. With the bill, we are proposing that the Presidency and the Economic Council should have a better framework for their work. The Presidency of the Economic Council has some very special qualifications which enable them to carry out the specific task of the Productivity Council. This concerns, among other things: on their independence, their high professional level and the ability to communicate widely to the public. Therefore, they were given the role of fiscal watchdog in 2012. We will now give them a further special task of monitoring productivity developments in Denmark. It is certainly not a new issue, but it is an area that deserves a sharper focus. Productivity development is ultimately crucial for our prosperity development, and therefore it is worrying that we have had weak productivity development in Denmark for a number of years. The government has presented a growth initiative with new measures that will benefit productivity developments, but we also need new sources of inspiration for new proposals and more eyes to follow developments. Therefore, I stress that with the Productivity Council we will have a framework created so that systematic and thorough focus is placed on how to strengthen productivity developments. The Presidency of the Economic Council has indicated their willingness to carry out this task and I look forward to reading the reports when they are presented. It is also time to look at the composition of the Council members in the Economic Council. The economic debate has changed in recent years and today we have several think tanks which participate in the public debate on the basis of our own analyses. The Trade and Industry Council of the Workers' Movement is today the only think tank in the Economic Council and we find it natural to give a place to the CEPOS, which will be a natural counterpart to the AE Council. It will strengthen the debate in the Economic Council to have both these think tanks represented at each of their ideological starting points. Both are important in the public debate and both have the necessary breadth and professional insight to sit in the Economic Council. We could also have chosen a solution in which the Economic Council should be reserved for the main business and social partners. Then we should have put forward a proposal that the Trade and Industry Council of the Workers' Movement should not be a member of the Council. We could also have chosen to put a new employers' organisation in the place that has been empty for a number of years. In fact, that seat has been vacant since 2008. However, the government believes that, in many respects, the EPOS is the right choice and it is not an ideological attempt to draw the debate in the Economic Council in a particular direction. CEPOS comes into an empty place on the employers' side, so we hardly push much to the balance of the council. The number of members will remain unchanged compared to the most recent revision of the composition in 2007. CEPOS has long been a well-established institution in the public debate with great impact and professionalism. Everyone should be able to recognise this regardless of ideology. So we believe that the debate in the Economic Council will be strengthened with the EPOS represented. The bill also provides for the formalisation of the so-called follow-up or explanation principle. It is the case that, according to the financial pact, we will have to explain if we do not follow the Presidency's assessments of financial policy. And we do not always agree with the Presidency. However, we explain how and why our assessments may differ from those of the Presidency, and that is a sound principle. That is why we are now putting it directly into the law of the Economic Council, but we are not changing the role of the Presidency as a fiscal watchdog or its obligations to the current government. We also make it clear in the legislation that it is the Presidency of the Economic Council that will have to carry out the independent assessment of fiscal policy. It is quite natural that Council members have positions on fiscal policy, but the Council as such does not play a role here. There is, in my view, a limit to how many people can sit in the Economic Council and in the Environmental Economic Council. This is due, among other things, to: the need to ensure that meetings can be conducted in an appropriate manner. The main business organisations, the social partners, are represented. There are independent experts, and the AE Council, which has its roots in the trade union movement and is now a think tank and modern research institute, has a place in the Economic Council. Over the years, there have been few adjustments in the composition, so we are not going to put up a big adjustment here. We are changing into one of 26 seats, so it is really an adjustment, but an adjustment which is justified and which will help to bring the debate in the Economic Council up to date. The Presidency functions independently and chooses the subjects that they wish to discuss. However, it may be relevant to have some tied tasks in areas where an independent assessment is required. This is true, for example. We also believe that the task of achieving productivity makes sense to the Presidency as a special task. Moreover, the Presidency itself has also indicated that they are interested in this task. It is, of course, a balance and we do not want to put the Presidency in a straitjacket and dictate a number of specific tasks they have to fulfil. Nor do we want to turn them into chief judges, who are to count on all kinds of action. I would like to sign for the debate and the support I feel there is for the proposal, but of course also for a large number of questions to be put during the committee procedure, and I am of course available for that at committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111123525	But the debate is not over yet. The first brief comment is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111123530	Thank you and thank you for the Minister for Finance's speech. What I was trying to talk about in my speech was that I think it is a little special that the Danish Parliament should name a person in an employer's place against whom DA opposes it. Now it was referred to as a sort of counterpart to the Labour Movement's Employment Council, but we have, of course, suggested that the Council should reflect some social interests, i.e. some employers and some employees via the trade unions, the state, the National Bank, etc. It may be a rhetorical question, but isn't that a new way of doing things?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111123622	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111123623	Yes, but I can only say that the seat we are talking about here has been vacant since 2008 and has not been occupied. And there I think, when we see the developments that have taken place around the CEPOS' analyses and the CEPOS' efforts in the social debate, that when there is a vacant seat in the council that has not been filled, we could put them in, and that would give a fresh breath to the debate. After all, we are not opting out of the Labour Movement's Enterprise Council, which describes itself as a think tank, but we are making this choice with the CEPOS, which I think is justified and which can enrich the debate on economic policy and the economic situation in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111123714	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111123715	My point was also that it might be possible for employers to assess this themselves, and when they oppose it directly, it is a little special. But I would like to spend the rest of my time asking another question to the Minister of Finance in relation to this rather narrow concept of productivity that was introduced, namely whether the Minister of Finance agrees with both the Presidency, who has last said that they would like to try to see whether we can have a broader basis for assessing both GDP and productivity, and with the people behind DREAM, who have said that they would actually like to try to get more facts and more knowledge so that we can bring some more things with us so that it is not only dynamic effects of, for example. tax relief, but also dynamic effects of investment in social interventions etc. Is it something that the Minister of Finance welcomes, when the Council is now also specifically looking at productivity, to try to expand its data base?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111123819	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111123820	I do not want to interfere at all with the tasks of the Economic Council and the Presidency of the Economic Council. I expect you to use methods that have a scientific background and are not just something you invent for the occasion. This is the way we work in the Ministry of Finance; we should be able to refer to some scientific studies which can confirm one point of view or the other point of view. And then I think I will sign for the questioner's concern for the Danish employers. I shall then go on to say that the SF is saddened that we have that space.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111123912	There is a brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111123915	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. What I also indicated in my speech was that I would really like us to try to measure productivity somewhat wider. Now, in his own speech, as I heard, the Minister for Finance said that productivity is crucial to our prosperity. My question is actually this: is it, according to the Minister for Finance, a productivity independent of the environmental and climate effects that exist and independent of the health, well-being and equality of the population?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111123947	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111123948	There are many things that matter, but when you look specifically at the prosperity of society, I think that in the publications we have produced there is a very, very interesting curve that shows that there is an almost one-to-one correlation between productivity developments and, for example, productivity developments. wage developments, which mean that as productivity increases, wages increase, transfer income increases, and I regard this as a measure of prosperity in Danish society after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111124023	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111124025	Thank you for that, but now I asked specifically whether the productivity level can we also take the wage development with the • is completely independent of the environmental and climate constraints we make?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111124038	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111124040	I'm just a modest lawyer, I'll tell Mrs. Josephine Fock, so I don't want to get into that kind of thing. But I guess these are two different issues. One thing is whether we organise our society sensibly, environmentally, health and safety at work, and what I know, and another is the productivity that is in society, and I therefore consider it a prerequisite for us to solve some of the problems that Josephine Fock wants to solve, that we have productivity growth in Danish society, that is to say that we are getting richer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111124119	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111124122	I have two questions. One is: does the Minister completely exclude the fact that it is possible to achieve what the government is proposing, but without denying the principle that the think tank members who may be in the Economic Council represent some others, and thus not only generally opening up to think tanks in the future, including those discussed here, can come in? The second question is: will the Minister consider a solution which also fills the vacant seat in the Environmental Economic Council without me going to lay down who it should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111124200	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111124201	I understand that there are many issues that will be raised during the committee's reading, and I will give an assurance that we will. But I think it is a very funny debate about the Workers' Council, and some people have talked about the scientific basis and so on. So, in my view, there can be almost an resemblance between the Trade Council of the Workers' Movement and the Economic Secretariat of the Social Democratic Party, which is why they are supposed to say what are we supposed to overshine other think tanks, the sort of funny thing. What matters to me in this discussion is that the CEPOS has been manifesting itself through analyses and has participated in the public debate for a number of years, and that is why it is not a think tank. Some people call themselves a think tank. However, I believe that for a long time now they have manifested themselves as a seriously working think tank. And when there is a seat that has been vacant since 2008, I think that the damage, by saying that let us get the CEPOS into that place, is minimal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111124322	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111124323	But that is not what my question was all about. My question went more on the principle and whether one can imagine that one reaches the same conclusion. This could be given some thought and thus ensure the principle which I think is good, namely that the representatives who sit in the Economic Council are literally holding their hands on the hot plate, so that if those who have pointed to them as their representatives do not think that they perform well enough, then it is out of the guard, and then someone else is appointed instead. I think that is a very good principle. Otherwise we will open up the possibility that all kinds of other think tanks will naturally also begin to ask for a place in the council.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111124406	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111124407	After all, no one says that all sorts of other think tanks will enter the Economic Council's Board of Governors. That is something we will decide if any changes are to be made there. I would not rule out the possibility of other think tanks showing up, but it must be a requirement that you have worked for a number of years and that you have proved that there is quality behind what you are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111124435	The next brief remark is by Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111124440	Thanks to the finance minister for showing up. There's enough to do, I can imagine. What worries me a little is the fact that the Minister of Finance uses as an argument in relation to the EPOS that he thinks it has been proven that the EPOS has come up with a qualified input into the public debate. But I guess the idea is that it shouldn't be a matter of what to apologize for the wording.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then the next government can invite in its friends. Perhaps it is just better to maintain it in the way that has been done so far and that it is not an argument in itself that a finance minister thinks that the CEPOS has qualified, and then there may be others of us who have different opinions about how much CEPOS has qualified, and that is an honest matter. But should there not be some rather more objective criteria and selection procedures? Is there not a risk that there will be a laxity or such political competition that each government will put its friends into the Economic Council?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111124554	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111124555	I don't know what to say to Pelle Dragsted. After all, I am not the only one who is putting anyone into the Economic Council, because after all it has to be dealt with in a legislative proposal, and the committee procedure that will be will ensure that there is a quality in the decision we are taking. But by the way, Mr Dragsted's speech confirms what I have always suspected of Enhedslisten, namely that the existing state is the best and that any change is a threat to society, and that is also true in this matter: that we have found the solution for the Economic Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111124640	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111124642	There is such a great sense of security that I always know that, when the Minister for Finance replies, it is something that I will not change anything. However, I did not forget that the public sector was cast in concrete, today, but I can probably look forward to that next time. No, Enhedslisten would like to change something and also like very much but we would like it to happen according to some relatively clear and transparent principles. It is not to be polemical, but, as has also been said, it is not of great importance who sits in that board of directors. It is just a principle that it is now wise for a government to choose its friends to sit there rather than to maintain more objective selection criteria, where it is the social partners who make this selection.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111124724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111124725	If sir... Pelle Dragsted sees this as an ideological battle, I would just like to point out that we are not going to upset the balance between the worker side and the employer side, because it is exactly the same balance. One might wonder why a seat has been open for eight years without being occupied, and that is why I think I can rightly say that the CEPOS will make good use of the empty space.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111124757	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister for today's work and thank the rapporteurs for their work. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is over. I propose that the bill be referred to the Financial Committee. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111124823	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111124844	Thank you for that, President. The proposers of B1 want the government in this Assembly to be required to secure funding and to introduce free psychological assistance for victims of violence in the country's crisis centres. Let me begin by making it quite clear that the government agrees with the proposers of B1 that violence should be helped to deal with the violence that they have been subjected to. Some victims of violence have lived a lifetime of violence, and it goes without saying that it takes enormous courage to leave a violent partner. It also goes without saying that such an experience of violence can leave long-standing traces, both for the adult, but also for the children who most often follow when a parent decides to seek help. Therefore, the government also shares the intention behind B1 but does not believe that a right to free psychological assistance is the right way to go. This is due to the fact that there are already a number of efforts to help the victim of the violence to live independently without violence, and it is also due to the fact that we have launched new initiatives in this area in the recently concluded agreement on the rates of pay, together with the Social Democratic Party. It may seem a little fun to be standing here today, the week after the pool parties entered into a settlement. It is exactly one week since the conciliation, where one of the initiatives is actually, I think, a very, very important basic initiative, which is about preventing violence in close relationships. Of course, we on the part of the government agree entirely that in an acute crisis violence needs help, and that help can be obtained today, among other things. the country's women's crisis centres. It is, of course, a central part of the task of a crisis centre to provide protection and security for the woman and possibly accompanying children, who are all in an emergency situation. It is also an equally central part of the task of a crisis centre to provide care and support for those women and children who are subjected to violence who are staying at the crisis centre. The centres do that, among other things. through individual counselling, where a crisis center employee helps the victim to process the experience of violence and, indeed, helps gradually to dress the woman to cope with an independent life away from violence. In addition, in part of the crisis centres, other forms of support are also offered, such as group-based courses or interviews with women with their children. Through this kind of dialogue and dialogue, women are being supported for a development which enables a safe life to be established without violence. As the motion for a resolution makes clear, Article 69 of the Health Act makes it possible for certain particularly vulnerable groups of persons to receive a grant for treatment by a psychologist in the field of practice following a medical reference, and the group of eligible persons is precisely those who have been subjected to violence. I would like to say a few words about what we actually agreed on last Friday, because that is, I think, quite essential in this debate. Social democracy is part of that agreement and it involves a significant increase in efforts in the field of violence. It's a deal where we're gonna set up 65 million. kr., and with them we are launching a series of new initiatives, all with the aim of helping violent people, and here the psychological assistance is actually also thought in. It is part of the agreement that network groups for women exposed to violence should be set up, potentially also for men exposed to violence and for children, where exactly this kind of network initiative should have the participation of a psychologist. For it is the intention of the network groups, just as it is the intention of this motion for a resolution that this type of effort should help the violent person to work through the violence experience and, in any case, succeed in creating a solid foundation for moving forward in a life without violence. In addition, the new wage-pool agreement also involves a broad focus on efforts to combat violence, so that it is not only women in crisis centres who have the opportunity to gain support for moving forward in a life without violence. We have among other things. focus on existing outpatient treatment services for people who live with violence in close relationships and that they are extended. We have done so by agreeing to allocate funds for the Mother's Help initiative, called "Out of the Shadow of Violence." It is precisely a form of outpatient treatment which offers interdisciplinary treatment, composed of both social workers, social educators and psychologists, to violent persons who have left or decided to leave a violent partner. In the course of the negotiations that we concluded last Friday, the Betspool parties agreed that it was this package, including the part on psychological assistance in relation to the time after a crisis centre stay, which is what is needed, in order to move the whole area forward, and thus not in isolation from the content of this motion for a resolution. That is also why I am surprised that we have the debate in the House today on this proposal, that is, when we have just reached the broad political agreement on Friday. Then it is also important to say that we have also adopted legislation which obliges municipalities to offer initial and coordinating advice to all women who are staying at the crisis centre. The purpose of this arrangement is, of course, to help women break the spiral of violence in which she has ended up, and of course to strengthen her in creating a stronger and more stable life without violence. So this coordinating advice is based on the situation and needs of the individual woman, and that is to say all the factors relevant to the individual woman's ability to make a life without violence. So let me conclude by making it clear that violence in close relations is, of course, all in agreement on this, and it is an obligation for us as a society to provide help to those who are subjected to violence by their loved ones, and that is also why we have a number of efforts that clearly aim to help the victims of violence in the crisis they face when they take courage and leave their violent partner. It is an effort that includes support and care for women's crisis centres, it is an effort that includes subsidies for psychotherapy, it is an effort on a number of new initiatives in this year's rate pool agreement, and then it is all very important that a municipal duty to offer violence-exposed women in crisis centres the initial and coordinating advice. So in those words, I will end up concluding that the government will not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111125641	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111125647	The minister says the minister is surprised. Then I would say that I am surprised that the Minister is surprised. This has been something on which the Minister has been in a large number of consultations, about which I myself have called in order to highlight this. So it cannot be surprising to the Minister that it is the Social Democrats' wish to reinstate the free and acute psychological assistance at the shelters. There's no way that can surprise the Minister for Social Affairs. Then we have entered into a wage-pool agreement with a number of important measures at the crisis centres, which are good and which strengthen women's rights. First and foremost, it is women who take advantage of the crisis centres that are able to break with violence. These are a whole series of good measures, which my colleagues from the Socialist Group have also praised. I'll sign for them myself. These are good things we've done together. But that does not change the fact that we can add even more good things, and that is what we are trying to do with this motion for a resolution. So I would just like to ask at the end: does the Minister have the impression that the Social Protection Agency is saying that there are some very good results, by introducing free and emergency psychological assistance, both in relation to women's ability to break with violence, but also in relation to ensuring that they have a surplus to be there for their children?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111125802	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111125804	Let me start with the first part of the question, i.e. whether you think it is strange that I am surprised. It is quite true that we have spent a great deal of time together in consultation and that we have debated this subject in depth. And then I also recall that, in the context of the consultations, several Socialists said that there is a need for action here, there is a real need for action and all that. Negotiation is something weird. However, we were aware that, of course, there is a need for negotiation in order for us to be able to act. And negotiation is exactly what we have had in the rate pool. We have just been negotiating a huge agreement with a framework of 65 million. kr. That is why I am somewhat surprised that the Social Democrats' rapporteur on equality maintains this here, when a political settlement has just been reached, a broad political agreement on how to strengthen this area. So I am surprised that the Social Democratic Party insists on saying: in this session and that the government should be required to find funding. I am surprised that when a settlement has just been reached, an agreement has been reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111125916	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111125917	If you just listen to the Minister for Social Affairs, you almost get the impression that it has not been a social democratic desire to find a solution in relation to the rate pool in this area. I would just like to ask the Minister to reject that view. Of course, it's been a desire of the Social Democratic Party to solve this with the bet pool. This did not succeed, but it will not do that we will not continue to fight for the implementation of our policy. And we're gonna keep fighting to get this arrangement implemented. I think that the Minister should recognise my right to do so, given that the Minister is referring to the negotiations here and such a problematize that I allow myself to make this proposal when a pool agreement has just been drawn up. I am therefore entitled to do so, and we in the Social Democratic Party are entitled to do so. So there is no contradiction between having a wish for the bet pool and then that. There are plenty of wishes, but unfortunately there isn't enough money for it all. However, the things that are then not being implemented are well entitled to continue with subsequent work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111130019	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111130020	I am never referring, on principle, to negotiating meetings. I referred to and concluded what our stake pool agreement was about. It is exactly 1 week ago that all the bet pools • it is the Danish Parliament's parties except Enhedslisten • broadly united and concluded that here we have a settlement. Part of the settlement is among other things: the great effort here to prevent violence in close relationships, among other things. with initiatives about the psychological participation, in connection with moving away from the stay at e.g. a women's crisis center. So no, there's nothing to deny or confirm here. When you reach a settlement, you reach an agreement, and then my opinion is that at least you support it and not say in that way that it was not good enough. If you shouldn't have made the deal, you might almost want to say it. A settlement has been reached, which has been concluded, a broad commitment to a fairly large and considerable amount. And I am glad that the Social Democrats' rapporteur on equality also confirms that the agreement that has been made is actually very, very good and that it is sensible. So let us now focus on what kind of a good and important agreement we have made, which is going to help these people in a broader perspective, because it is not enough just to focus clearly on a psychological regime at the shelters.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111130149	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111130152	It is a little remarkable that we have a minister standing here who says that if the Social Democratic Party does not fully agree with the government's policy on gender equality, we should not enter into agreements. That can never be the way we make politics. We are even more ambitious than the minister who is standing on the floor right now in relation to this area, we have to understand. But we always have an interest in concluding agreements which, step by step, bring us further towards the policy which we are there. Can the Minister not also confirm in this connection that we have an evaluation which shows that it is working? We know this is working. It is therefore a pity that the Minister is standing on the floor and rejecting the proposal as the Minister does.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111130257	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111130300	I am wondering whether it is because you yourself have not been in a debate or are frustrated by the outcome. Yes, I think it is remarkable: one week after a broad agreement has been reached and actually sat for hours, for days and discussed the field in detail, when we saw agreement and say that we are now doing this and I am glad that the Social Democrats' rapporteur on equal opportunities confirms that it is actually a really, very good and important agreement that has been reached, the equality rapporteur and the corresponding member of the Committee on Gender Equality will continue, so to speak: but we want it here; we want the government to do it now. I do not think this is worthy of agreement when we actually reach a compromise and agree that this is a good and important initiative. In relation to whether the right to psychological assistance at the crisis centre is the right way to go, I have, in fact, made it very, very clear in my reply or in my whole speech here. I do not think this is the right solution to this broad issue. I believe that we are using the funds wiser precisely in the way we have reached an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111130415	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111130419	It seems almost as if it is because the Minister lacks arguments that the Minister keeps talking about the rate pool agreement. Because we didn't come up with this on our own. It is our party, the Social Democratic Party, that is behind this motion for a resolution. It's because we want this action. That is because we believe that it will be a good addition to the wage-pool agreement that has been made. That is why I have to ask the Minister again whether the Minister does not recognise that the system that has been in place to provide emergency psychological assistance has not only helped women, but has also helped them to take better care of their children. And that is something that is in the interests of all of us. That is why this proposal also differs from the wage-pool agreement in place. Could the Minister please confirm this and, I would say, be part of the debate that we really want the Minister to take here in the Chamber today, rather than discussing the pool agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111130512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111130514	I have to say that things are connected. It may well be that one is frustrated to have to discuss what has been concluded by agreements in the pool, but one cannot escape the fact that it is an important agreement, in other words that the initiative adopted in the circle, widely among the parties in the Folketing, will have significance. As I also said in my speech, and as I say again, it is not the case that nothing is happening at a crisis centre. I mean, it's a core task at a women's crisis center to offer support and care to the violent woman in this acute phase, which she's in after the break with a violent partner. It is the crisis centre staff, the crisis centre building that has the professional expertise in it. Some of them have psychological counseling, some of which have psychologists associated with them. They work a little differently, no doubt about it, but don't let it sound like psychological assistance doesn't work at all. There are a lot of people who benefit from psychological help. That is also why we have public support schemes and, specifically, for various target groups, there is, in fact, considerable support for the payment to be made by a psychologist. So that is also what I explained, in relation to exactly the people affected by violence, who can also receive help in the payment of psychological assistance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111130638	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111130640	I have to admit that, although I have not been in a negotiating room on the rate pool, I find it rather difficult to understand that we should not want more than what we are agreeing on. This kind of approach to political agreements would, of course, completely prevent compromises in the Danish Parliament, and frankly I do not think that is what the Minister means. What I would like to ask is how is this good and important agreement, which the Minister calls the rate pool agreement, financed?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111130714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111130718	I look at Mrs Pernille Skipper and I send a small smile, because this is where we have a wonderful ideological discussion. The wage pool is a pool that comes into being on the basis of how to regulate transfer income in conjunction with wage developments, and this is the way to provide funds to precisely invest and continue to develop how the aid works in Denmark • helping socially vulnerable groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111130747	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111130750	It regulates transfer income compared with wage developments in a certain way, was what the Minister said. We just need to be clear about what that means, because it sounds quite reasonable. Does this mean that for those who are on transfer income, i.e. for those who are on transfer income? people's pensions, cash benefits, early retirement, flex jobs, that is to say, some of the most vulnerable groups in society, this means that their money is constantly becoming less and less valuable in relation to wage developments and all of us in society, because you take some money that you spend on the rate pool, among other things. violence-stricken women. In other words, transfer incomes are being reduced in order to finance social interventions. I would just like the Minister to confirm that, and then we can continue with his boast of that agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111130849	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111130853	I'm so happy when Enhedslisten talks about this area in the way that you take Transfer income in Denmark is money from the community, it's money from taxpayers like Mrs Pernille Skipper, taxpayers like myself, as everything else just does, that there is this public sector and therefore also the possibility of being able to pay benefits. And for that discussion about where the money is and where it comes from and how money is regulated, I would just warn against saying that you take one give, and you regulate it when everyone has handed over to the common, big Treasury by our tax payments. That is what the discussion is about. Basically, as I know Mrs Pernille Skipper, I think that the pool mechanics are not outrageous. I do not think it is a scandal, because how else can we guarantee funding for the important development that must and must be in the social field if we are to sit, as it were, in the major financial negotiations and also fight on an equal footing with infrastructure priorities or defence budgets or education? I think this is a sensible way of providing an economy so that we can continue to insist on the development of social interventions in general in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111131027	Thank you, Minister. No more of the rapporteurs want to debate with her now. Then we turn to the rapporteurs, and the first is Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111131052	Thank you. Yeah, well, I guess there'll be some repetitions from here, too. This resolution is about free psychological assistance for victims of violence in the country's crisis centres, which will require the government in this Assembly to secure funding for the introduction of free psychological assistance for victims of violence in the country's crisis centres. There should be no doubt that in the Danish People's Party we find it absolutely disgusting that people expose other people to violence. After all, we have also reached an agreement, a common agreement, in the social field, where we have just had a huge focus on this area, where we are setting aside funds for a national unity in relation to violence in close relations. As the Minister said, we have set aside 65.6 million. kr. in the period from 2017 to 2020 precisely to strengthen efforts. There are today approx. 33 000 women who are victims of violence, and today there are approximately 33 000 women who are victims of violence. 13,000 men, who are also victims of violence, of whom approx. 2,000 women and approx. Ten men at shelters. There's a big difference in itself. There is now a large group that does not get help to break the violent relationship in which they are, which is of great importance to the individual. The agreement on this has just been reached by the parties of the Folketing, and it is precisely in this area that we are strengthening in relation to those who are not being helped today. This is among other things. a good project, Mother's help project •Out of the shadow of violence, which we have experienced has delivered very good and documented results. The aim is to provide help to the group which, as I said earlier, does not come into contact with a crisis centre. Then, in relation to the project, we have also looked at the possibility of adjusting the rules for reimbursement in the field of violence, with a view to also anchoring outpatient services in a municipal counselling system, and a number of initiatives are being taken to ensure that the whole thing is done. This is also in line with the agreement we have drawn up on action plans in the field of violence. That is why we have set aside a great deal of money, but you can always spend more money, that is what it is, but that money also has to be found, and there are a lot of things you want to do in society. So the national unit must, among other things: run a hotline for legal advice to women exposed to violence, but the good thing is that it is also for men exposed to violence. It will then be responsible for a knowledge gathering and dissemination of violence in close relations with relevant actors in the field of violence, as well as running post-protection activities with psychological assistance in the form of social networks for the victims of violence and their children. Then we will also have an overview of the country's crisis centres. We need an overview of these, and we must of course follow this area very closely. I think it is a very, very sympathetic proposal that the Socialists have made, but I also think that we have agreed around the negotiating table that this might have been a very good model for how we could solve several aspects of it, also in relation to the men being involved in this. But there will be an evaluation on this very point, and if it turns out that it is not good enough, or that there are other initiatives that are better, then we will be willing to look at it also when we may meet again in the next negotiations. Nowadays, the municipal councils have to offer psychological treatment to all children who accompany the mother during the stay to these boformers. But we also have a great desire on the part of the Danish People's Party when we look at section 109 of the Service Act that we also have the fathers written in, so there are both women and men in section 109 of the Service Act. So there are also a number of requests that we have for improvements in this area, but I think we have arrived at the good ones, I certainly hope so, and when we have evaluated it, I hope we have hit the spot, but if we have not hit the spot with this, then we are willing to look at improvements.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111131554	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111131600	Thank you. I am really pleased that the rapporteur also confirms that this is a very, very important area and that we can do more to help all those who, unfortunately, are being subjected to violence in this country. That is why I would like to start by asking the rapporteur how important the rapporteur thinks this urgent psychological assistance is for those who appear at a crisis centre.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111131621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111131624	The study has shown that for many women it is very important. I think it has, too. On the other hand, I also think that we are different as people. Sometimes you need something different, some different bets, depending on the situation you are in. After all, we have tried to find a solution to this in the negotiations together, including with the Socialists, where we have just made this agreement. So depending on who you are and what you need, I think it is important that you adjust that effort to the individual.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111131705	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111131711	I now hear the rapporteur say that it can be very important. That is at least what the evaluation has also shown, namely that it can really help. I therefore hear the rapporteur say that a palette of initiatives can be important. That is why we think this proposal is so good. In the rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur said that more money can always be spent, and that is actually true, but here we have something that we know works. It costs a little less than 1 kroner. per Danes to get it implemented. Does the rapporteur share the wish that we should be able to do this, because then it could also be a question of saying that we could sit together and try to see if we could not find the money? Will the rapporteur be interested in it, or should it be negotiated in the pool of rates, which is what the rapporteur goes back to? Or could one really say: let us look at it and see if we could actually find the money for this important and important initiative?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111131800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111131804	Yes, but there I have to say that we have just, we can say, bet on finding the money for this area of the bet pool together. We are in agreement and in the result we have achieved in the negotiations we have had. Then it is not the case that one excludes the other in such a way that we cannot look forward to seeing whether there are other initiatives to be taken, but in relation to this we have just focused on the holistic approach to national unity.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111131838	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111131849	It has to be said that this proposal is an offer addressed to both the men and women affected by violence in crisis centres. There are so many women in shelters, so that is why we often talk about them. But it is addressed to both men and women. It has been documented that earlier this year the Social Protection Agency itself has done that the emergency and free psychological assistance in crisis centres has produced good results in relation to women's ability to break with violence and in relation to giving them a surplus to be there for their children. This must make an impression on all of us and also on the Danish People's Party. So let me hear: what is it that makes you not back up? Is it because you are against the concrete proposal? Is it because you think it's too expensive with these 4 million? kr. A year? Is it because you don't think you can afford to, since we've made a bet pool deal for something else? Or is it to ensure Christmas peace in the blue block? What is the reason for this? I can't quite figure it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111131944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111131947	No, the rapporteur may not be able to find out. We think it is a very good agreement that we have made, precisely because we have written in post-protection interventions, but psychological assistance has also been written in relation to the holistic efforts. So it's not like we're set up on one thing or the other. We have gone a determined way in terms of wanting action in this area and we want to invest in this area. We want women affected by violence to be helped and we want men affected by violence to be helped, and we want children affected by violence to be helped. That is why we think that in this way we have made a good solution so that people who are subjected to violence are given more effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111132039	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111132043	That is a good agreement, but it is not a perfect agreement because there is limited funding for such an agreement. There is a bag of money, and then you can try to agree on how to distribute it. However, it does not mean that when you leave, the parties must shelve their social policy and their gender equality policy, because now, for all things in the world, you must not mean anything more than what has just been made a compromise in a wage-pool agreement. So I also think that we should separate ourselves a little from that. We have every right to want something more than a particular political agreement. Now we try to work for this in peace. If it had come through the bet pool, it would have been fine. We couldn't get that, so we'll try it that way. I guess there's nothing weird about that. If you think this is a good idea politically, why not just back up?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111132128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111132131	The rapporteur may think so. The Danish People's Party simply thinks that when you sit and agree on some things in an area that you think is a really good solution, you can judge whether you find it strange that others then come with this proposal the week after. I'll let people assess what they think and what they think about it. The most important thing for the Danish People's Party is that we make an effort in this area and that we help people who are subjected to violence.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111132204	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111132208	I think it's really exciting what we're hearing now. For what I understand is that when the Danish People's Party enters into an agreement, they will not stand up and criticise it the following week and say that we must now go further than that agreement. As I recall, the Danish People's Party believes that the wagering pool construction, where social efforts are financed by cutting back on cash benefits, the national pension, the early retirement pension, is, in fact, antisocial. And the Danish People's Party usually says that they want to go beyond that agreement. They want to ensure that this money is distributed to social efforts, but that it is financed differently. That's what the Danish People's Party used to say. Does the Danish People's Party also mean that, now a week after they have again signed up to take all this money from some of the people who already have the least?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111132314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111132316	I now think that Mrs Pernille Skipper puts a few words in the mouth of the rapporteur up here that have not been said. But okay, let's take it with the bet pool. It is not a secret; we have said so in the past, and we have even had a question debate on it down here in the Chamber, where we had called the then Finance Minister Bjarne Corydon in relation to the precisely the rate pool. But we have also said that as long as the bet pool is there, we will also be sitting around the table.Of course you can have a position on that as Enhedslisten has chosen not to sit at the table, i.e. stay outside. I just have to say, we're different. But we'd like to help you figure out how to solve this entire movement pool problem. We also think it is antisocial, and Mrs Pernille Skipper knows that we think so too.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111132413	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111132416	Okay, but then what the rapporteur says about why you're not going to vote for this proposal, just not so much meaning, right? Peace be to it. Something puzzles me about the bet pool. Now the rapporteur himself says that it seems to be antisocial, and if I start counting mandates in here, then there are 90 mandates which continue to say that this pool of rates is so much up, more so. That is why I am surprised that an agreement is still being reached on it and that it remains one that is being pushed in front of it. When there is a very good proposal that can give more rights to people who are affected by domestic violence, then you push the pool agreement before you, and then you stand again complaining that you really do not want to make that wage-pool agreement. In other words, can the rapporteur not hear that it is gradually beginning to sound a little hollow?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111132511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111132516	It is, of course, the rapporteur's opinion that it sounds hollow. I stand here honestly and honestly telling you that here we may have some different views in relation to the fact that we would like to sit at the table, but that we would also like to find a solution to the second part, in relation to the entire rate pool. The rapporteur knows that too. And then the rapporteur can count mandates, but it may not be so easy to find a solution to this whole problem or challenge that very many people think there is in relation to the rate pool.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111132542	Thank you very much to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. And then we're gonna welcome a torn-up, Mr. Carl Holst from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111132555	Thank you, Mr President, for your warm welcome. In relation to the proposal itself, which is, of course, to require the government to introduce free psychological assistance to victims of violence in the country's crisis centres and to provide funding for this, I am in line with the Minister and have the same amazement. I cannot help noticing that the proposers' own party, the Social Democratic Party, has itself been part of the wagering pool agreement in which the trial scheme with free psychological assistance was agreed and in the same pool and negotiation was subsequently concluded. And as the Minister has stressed both in his ministerial speech today and on previous occasions, the rate-pool initiatives are something which the parties behind the agreement initiate and conclude jointly. That is why I share the Minister's surprise. I do not dispute the right to table the motion for a resolution; one has the right to do so within the framework of parliamentary rules, and I have the right to marvel at the fact that this is done in this way in relation to the course of the debate that has taken place. In relation to the proposal itself, from the Left's point of view, today there is sufficient either free or grant-based psychological assistance available to victims of violence. This is among other things. the possibility for victims of violence to receive subsidies for psychological treatment through the Health Act, and if the victim of the violence cannot afford the necessary psychological treatment, the municipality today has the opportunity to help. The latter is based on an individual assessment of the victim. And that is why the Left believes that there is already sufficient focus today on ensuring proper psychological assistance for the victims of violence in crisis centres. In addition, as we are all aware, the recently concluded wage-pool agreement provides funds for network groups, which will also include psychological assistance, for people who are affected by violence in close relationships. It is both right and proper that we should invest in this type of aid, because this type of violence, as we all agree, is both unacceptable and unacceptable. If it does happen, then we owe it as a community and as a fellow human being to support victims of violence, not only victims of violence, who find access to and residence in a crisis centre, but who are victims of violence throughout society. That is the broader aim that we had in the pool negotiations in our efforts with the 65.6 million. kr., for which we made a deal. It is against this background that the Left does not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111132940	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111132946	Thank you. Now I noted that the rapporteur said: the Left believes today that there is a sufficient level of help for those who are subjected to violence. So, I have to say, it surprises me that the rapporteur can stand and say it when we know that 33 000 women are subjected to domestic violence every year and that there are just as many children living in families where they are either subjected to violence or witness violence. Then we don't do enough as a community. Will the rapporteur confirm that this is what the rapporteur said? In other words, does the rapporteur think that there is nothing more to be done than what has been decided on with the current pool of rates that there are no more initiatives, no more ways to do it better than we are doing today? Is this how we should understand the rapporteur's announcement from the platform today?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111133038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111133042	It is my best belief that that is not what I said, that there is sufficient help for victims of violence. I spoke specifically about the motion for a resolution in relation to psychological assistance for those who are affected by violence in close relationships and who have access to shelters. Then you mention that some and sixty thousand will be hit by it. The number I have is 33,000 women and 13,000 men. And yes, that is not as many as the questioner says, but that is a lot of things, but we should just bear in mind, as Mrs Karina Adsbøl also said, that of the 33 000 women, 2 000, that is about 6%, will have access to the shelters and will subsequently receive the psychological assistance that the motion for a resolution proposes. What about the others? And of the 13,000 men, it's 10 who make use of the shelters, and that's 0.08%. My point is that where I prefer to focus, and as I am pleased that the pool negotiations agreed to do so, broader efforts are being made to prevent, combat violence and help the victims of violence more in society than to help those who gain access to shelters. Because that is a broader perspective and we need to broaden it. That is the purpose of the 65.6 million. kr., we have decided to devote to it in the rate pool negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111133226	Let me remind you that there is not as much time for the answers as there is for the rapporteur's speech. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111133235	Just for the record: I said that 33 000 women are being subjected to violence, and then there are just as many children, and these are the ones the rapporteur forgot in what the rapporteur said. But peace be with it. However, what is quite interesting is that the rapporteur obviously has a logic which states that if not all troops are to go to a crisis centre, no one should have the help that we, it might be said, found funding for in the experimental scheme for psychological assistance. So if everyone doesn't get that shrink help, nobody's gonna have it. In other words, it is a slightly reverse logic when we even know that for many people who come to the shelters, they are actually extremely vulnerable and do not have a network to which they can seek and which, therefore, may even need urgent psychological assistance. So can the rapporteur not just say whether he believes that the women who have received psychological assistance under the experimental scheme we had would have been given sufficient help anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111133333	My point about speaking time also applies to the questioner. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111133339	Those who have been included in the trial and this is shown in the evaluation which has also been referred to several times have benefited from it. I just want the effort to be wider. It is not the case that I say that because everyone does not get any help, it is not a good help, I am just saying that in the political priority I prefer action that goes beyond the group that comes to the shelters because the problems, the challenges of being affected by violence in close relations, are wider than the good work that is being done at the shelters. That is my approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111133418	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111133422	I do not think I will spend my Question Time on all that polemical stuff, where we end up talking about everything other than what is really in our resolution, which is a concrete proposal which is about providing emergency and free psychological assistance to the victims of violence in crisis centres. The rapporteur points out that there are some other offers. You can just be referred by your doctor. Then you have to wait for it, and then you can leave the shelter and meet your doctor somewhere and be referred by your doctor, and then there is at the moment. 7-8-week waiting time to get to a psychologist, and in addition you must have in the vicinity of 300-400 kr. Out of your pocket, if you're lucky enough to get public subsidies every single time. The rapporteur knows very well that some of those who are going to the shelters do not have the money for this, and they certainly do not have the time to wait for this. So that is why psychological assistance must be acute and must be free at the most critical time and probably the most dangerous time in the life of a violent woman: the second she packs the suitcase, takes the kids under her arm and addresses herself at the shelter.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111133540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111133543	I haven't tried to be polemical. I have just tried to answer the questions with the approach that I have entered into a pool agreement, where we have had a broader aim in terms of making efforts to help those affected by violence, and the wider effort must surely cover all, and not just the group of victims of violence who come to the shelters. With regard to access to a doctor, I would say that one can easily be in a situation where one does not have a surplus to do so. Of course, this is something we can understand, and that is also why crisis centres have crisis centre staff who can help to make this contact. As far as emergency assistance is concerned, yes, there is a waiting period for psychiatric treatment after referral by a doctor, and that is also why an acute reference must of course have an emergency treatment in relation to the psychiatric treatment system.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111133646	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111133651	The last thing the rapporteur said was exciting. I am a little puzzled because what kind of a violent woman is she who, when she goes to the shelter, begged and with her children under her arm and is so desperate and in crisis, so she is forced to go to a shelter, can wait up to 2 months on average for psychological help. What is really the current policy is that some of them end up returning to the one who exposes them to violence and who exposes their children to violence. That is why aid must be urgent, and that is why it is so crucial that there are psychologists in the crisis centre who know who they have to work with and who offer help immediately. It's something quite different from the perpetrator that's in the bet pool.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111133744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111133746	I think that in the report to which we refer on the evaluation, we have read it exactly in this field differently. I do not think there is any evidence to say that the evaluation shows that the waiting time for crisis psychological assistance has resulted in going back to the person who caused the violence. That's one thing. The second is that I am glad that the questioner thinks what I said was exciting, but I actually mean it. It is clear that you need urgent psychiatric assistance. You can easily be in a situation where you have it. Then it is part of the psychiatric treatment system that you should be covered by.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111133832	And so there is a brief comment from Mrs Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111133851	I have chosen to speak because I could hear that the rapporteur said on several occasions that help would be given to the women affected by the violence, in addition to those who are violent and are at a crisis centre. In that sentence, I think the rapporteur is somewhat neglecting the relevance of the women who are in these shelters. So I would really like to ask whether the rapporteur has any comment on whether those women who are victims of violence who are simply in crisis centres do not need psychological assistance? Do they not need quick help to move on with their lives?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111133915	Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111133920	Yes, they certainly have, and it was, just in the sense that it is one target group, and I said that, along with the rest of the parties behind the bet pool agreement, I will do something for the whole target group. The question is then asked it was the errand that I understood the questioner had had whether that means that I do not think it is essential to take care of those who are and come to the shelters. There I would say: yes, and that is what you do. What we do with the proposal and the compromise in the pool of rates negotiations is that we get around them and others. On the other hand, the question could be asked: why are you only focusing on them in the crisis centres, and why did the original proposal focus only on women affected by violence? That is not the approach I have at all. I can reassure you that there must be both a focus on shelters and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111134022	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111134022-2	I can then inform the rapporteur that we in the Social Democratic Party are also very interested in the broad part of this problem, i.e. not only women affected by violence in crisis centres, but generally women and children affected by violence and also men who are victims of violence. If the rapporteur keeps saying these things about the pooling of rates, then I would like to say that I know that it has also been a wish of the Social Democrats to set up this group. Because from studies we can see that it has a meaning and an effect. So when you come from a violent relationship with children, you need to talk to someone who can support you and say, "This is the right decision you've made, and now we need to find out how you can move on. That is why I am surprised that they say that we want to think broadly, and that is why we do not want to carry out the task that works. It seems illogical to me that we are not really making the effort that works permanent. I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111134126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111134129	Well, that's exactly what we've been doing in relation to the bet pool settlement, because the broad thing is that we're not just saying it's a question of psychological assistance for up to 3 hours. We are looking at whether there may be a need for some social education skills and a need for something in relation to transition to the labour market, and what I know. The very same report, which is referred to time and again, says precisely that women who are victims of violence and who come to shelters lose a link with the labour market to a greater extent than other women who are affected by violence in close relationships. That is a problem that we must take seriously. I repeat: the focus is on all those who are affected by violence in close relationships, not just those who are affected by it and who come to the shelters. It's been the approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111134221	We say mojn mojn to Carl Holst and welcome Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111134238	Yeah, and in North Jutland we would have said godddaw. I think it is a very interesting discussion that is going on, although it will somehow become a little bit technical. I think that one should break it down completely and drop the whole discussion on what an agreement means and whether one should have a position that goes beyond an agreement that has been reached. It would be incredibly difficult to reach compromises if we were not to have a position in areas other than what has once been agreed, so frankly I think that is a little a bad excuse, to put it bluntly. If you break it completely apart, it is a necessary and very good motion for a resolution tabled by the Socialists. It is about ensuring that psychological assistance is provided to women who are in an acute situation and in need of help because they have been subjected to domestic violence. And the fact is that the women who are victims of violence are not because there are no men who are victims of violence, but it is mainly women who need it. That is what we have been calling for for years at the shelters. The Enhedslisten can, of course, support this proposal, there is no doubt about that, and we will do so wholeheartedly. Thank you for presenting what I think is very good. Now that we are at it, I would warn that because we are voting in favour of this, it does not mean that we have no opinion that we should go further. We think you should. We do not think it is good enough that there are 4 hours of free psychological assistance per week. This is a good place to start, but we do not think it is enough. In fact, we think that there should be the free psychological assistance that you need. This is not least in view of the fact that women who are affected by violence are often women who are in difficult economic situations, to say the least, and it is women who most need help to stay away from violence and not return once they have taken the step to the crisis centre. The revenants, one might say, are some of those who have the lowest level of education and the lowest link with the labour market. Several of them are on cash benefits. So there is an economic battle side to the violence, which is certainly also reflected if you have to pay 40%. by a psychology bill itself. So I think the government should stand by their rejection of this proposal. Clearly, it is a question of economy. We think it is a poor financial priority to spend time discussing top tax concessions and everything else without wanting to spend money on free psychological assistance for women who are victims of violence. The fact that you have entered into a pool agreement is not an excuse for not making the world better in other ways or going further, on the contrary. The Enhedslisten will also be, and we will do so in the next motion for a resolution, of course, calling on the government, and not just in wage-pooling agreements, not to take money from the people who already have the most difficulty in our society, to make social efforts that are temporary and uncertain and a huge problem for the social area. We call for the money to be found elsewhere and to make it a permanent right that women not only can come to a crisis centre but can also subsequently get help to establish themselves in a new life and a new home and get the psychological support that they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111134643	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111134648	I can settle for just one, I think. However, thank you for your support and thanks for the fact that the rapporteur talks about the content and actually talks about politics. I think there are a little more people who are interested in that than trying to talk process and try to throw all sorts of gravel into the machinery of such a rather important and fundamental political debate, a discussion on how we can help the most vulnerable people in this country. So thank you for that. I would also like to thank you for your support from the Enhedslisten. I can also confirm that it will in no way prevent you from working for even more improvements. On the contrary, I hope that you will stay with it and work for even more improvements. One can easily vote in favour of this proposal and then wish in all sorts of other areas that it should be better done. It is not the case that if you vote 'yes' here, you can clap the trap and then you cannot say anything good after this in this area. On the contrary, I just think that we should vote through this and that anyone who has more positive things to offer, who can help the most vulnerable people in this country, should just shoot away.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111134750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111134753	Thank you. I just want to repeat that I think this is a really nice place to start. It's important. I also think that we should have an ambition to move forward and ensure that the aid for women who are victims of violence is financed permanently, first of all, as a right which can be relied on as a woman, and secondly, that more account is also taken of the social economic aspect associated with violence and violence against women in particular. On today's occasion, where there are now 15.7%. I would remind you that when we talk about violence against women and the economy, we obviously also lack equal pay. This corresponds to the fact that all women should go home from work today if we were to take time off for the lower salary we get. Things are connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111134841	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Danny K. Malkowski of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111134851	Thank you. People who have suffered domestic violence are in a very insecure and difficult situation. There is no doubt about that. Therefore, in a welfare society like the Danish one must also be able to offer urgent help that gets people back on track again. Unfortunately, you can see that incredibly many people end up visiting a shelter more than once. This reflects the fact that under violence there are heavy social problems that do not have simple solutions. In the Liberal Alliance, therefore, we welcome the fact that the rate-pool agreement has set aside money for voluntary social network groups as a defence for people who have been victims of violence in close relationships. We hope that this will help to reduce these sad statistics. With regard to the specific motion for a resolution, we believe that there are already good solutions in terms of helping the victims of violence. But that is why one can always discuss how to do things even better. Today it is already the case that advice and other forms of support can be obtained at the crisis centres of the employees. The public pays 60%, as previous rapporteurs have already pointed out. of psychotherapy if a citizen receives a medical certificate. If it is the economy that is the problem, the municipality also has the opportunity to help in some of these situations, but at the same time, tax-financed crisis aid is already being offered to citizens in a number of other areas, such as: if they have witnessed an attack or a traffic accident, but without being directly involved in it themselves. Here we do not believe that people suffering from violence and trauma in crisis centres should necessarily be in the back of the queue. We also see a problem in the fact that waiting times for a psychologist can often be very long in some cases where it is estimated that the individual actually needs an emergency conversational process. We therefore have a great deal of sympathy for the purpose of this motion for a resolution, but we do not think it is precisely this solution that is needed. Against this background, the Liberal Alliance will also vote against the motion for a resolution in its present form, but would very much like to take part in the work of the committee in examining whether the money for this can possibly be found within the existing crisis aid framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111135050	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111135057	Thank you. In fact, I would also like to express my thanks for the positive reception of the motion for a resolution. In any case, I heard the rapporteur very sympathetic to the fact that we have a problem here which is important, which is serious, and that we can actually discuss whether we cannot do better than today, even in spite of any agreements we might have concluded with each other. I would also like to acknowledge that the rapporteur then says whether we can look at how we can do it in committee if that is not the way the rapporteur thinks we should do it. In other words, we have not necessarily made ourselves quite clear. We believe that the experimental system that was was very good, but can the rapporteur say a little more about what could be done, that the Liberal Alliance will go along with and believe that we could agree on something and find each other here?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111135143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111135147	As I said in the speech, I believe that there is no evidence that we need to increase the framework for crisis relief. A great many people are receiving emergency aid in different situations, and we believe that we can think about whether violence-stricken women and men who come to the crisis centre should perhaps be given priority in this respect, but we do not think that the framework should be increased. So in this sense, it might be interesting in committee to look at whether one could cooperate on a resolution that looks at finding funding within the existing framework, but without increasing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111135217	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111135220	Now, of course, we know that it costs money also to offer free and emergency psychological assistance.That's what we had the pilot scheme in the rate pool.That's why it can of course be difficult, when you don't have the list, to say who it is that can do without the crisis psychologist who is now available. But I will certainly take up the call for us to look further at this in the committee's work. Then I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that psychological assistance and its urgency are important, as we can read from the evaluation of the experimental scheme which we believe should continue. And then I would like to ask whether the rapporteur believes that the women who took advantage of the psychological assistance provided under the experimental scheme would have received the psychological assistance if it were not the case that we had not introduced it. What is the rapporteur's assessment of this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111135306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111135310	As I understand the question, the rapporteur is of the opinion that everyone has benefited greatly from this, and this indicates that they have. The question is whether the need has been the same for all of them. I am not going to be wise about that, but I would just like to say that in the case of crisis aid and in the case of psychotherapy, it is not just a question of getting one psychological treatment here and now, because it is a longer period of time. It is the longer term that is the big question here. Here, the Liberal Alliance is interested in the fact that there must still be some responsibility for one's own health, and that is why, as a starting point, we are in favour of the current 60 per cent subsidy scheme. In the long term, we also think that this should be the way it is. If we then talk about the specific motion for a resolution, it can also be discussed how the money should be found, but here we believe, as I said, that it should be looked at in committee work, and I will not go into that again at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111135355	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111135358	If the whole thing worked today, we would not have had to table this resolution, that is, if it worked so well that it could be said that the victims of violence, who are going to a crisis centre and in need of psychological assistance, can just be referred by a doctor, and then they can pay the remaining 40 per cent, i.e. the 300-400 kroner there. in the hour, and just wait till they can get an appointment. If there was no problem here, we would not have tabled the motion for a resolution. There is a problem with funding, because there are, therefore, a number of those who are addressing the crisis centres, who do not have money for this; who have bad networks, poor economies and, at the very least, just have really bad conditions to break with the violence. That's one part of it. A very important part, and perhaps in reality more important than that of the economy, is the acute, that is, what should not be waited two months for the help you need, that is to say help to break with violence and help to be there for your children. This is something that many have a blind spot in relation to, and which may in fact be an even greater problem for the victims who are, for the violence. So that is why we are tabling the motion for a resolution. It's $4 million. kr., and we believe that they can be found within the current framework so that no one has to pay more in tax. We believe it can be done. We're ready for it all. We just want to help these people, because we think it's too poor that we're not helping them today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111135529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111135532	As I have said, we agree that some of the women who come to a shelter most likely need emergency psychological assistance; there can be no doubt about that in those cases. But the question is again where to find the funding. And if we are talking about the existing framework, we are interested, as I have said, to look at it further in committee and in the context of it perhaps carpenter a different motion for a resolution together. So in terms of reducing the waiting time for psychological assistance, we are in and out of the way in favour of it, but now that is just not what this resolution is about. It's about offering free psychological assistance to anyone who comes to a shelter. And we just don't think, as I said, that this is exactly the right solution to this problem. However, to look at how we reduce the waiting time for psychological assistance, we are differently in favour of looking at the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111135613	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111135615	Well, perhaps one of the most important things to learn in politics is knowing the difference between a fistbeat and an outstretched hand. I see an outstretched hand here, and I'd like to sign for that. I would say that I think we can find out in the committee's work. We are putting forward a motion for a resolution here which is, of course, under discussion. We would just like to start solving this problem, and if there can be constructive input from one side or the other of the Assembly, then we are ready to make some policy. That's what we get our money for, that's what we're here for; it's to help some people, it's not to bring too much palaver in here. So let's do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111135654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111135656	I can only sign back. It's a short time since I have to go back to New Year's. And I am actually here to achieve something, to achieve some political results. So let's finally do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111135704	Thank you, sir. Danny K. Malkowski. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111135717	Thank you. As we have already heard, this motion for a resolution will oblige the government to introduce the provision of emergency, free psychological assistance to women affected by violence in crisis centres. According to the proposal, the victims of the violence must be offered a minimum of four interviews during their stay at the crisis centre and the offer must be anchored in the shelters. This means that the victim of the violence does not have to seek out the help himself, and the associated psychologists with anchoring are ensured knowledge and expertise in relation to the victims of the violence. We think that this is a fine addition to the rate pool agreement we have made. We do not think it is so dramatic at all. The rate pool agreement we have made in the Ministry of Social Affairs we think is really, really fine, and we are also pleased with the great efforts being made to combat violence, but that should not prevent us from supporting free psychological assistance for women affected by violence in crisis centres as a supplement, and especially when it is the case that the offer has worked well until now, when it has been supported by funds but has then expired.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111135828	There are no brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur. This is Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111135847	Thank you. Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 1, which we are discussing today, is, after all, a very sympathetic proposal. It's just that it's been a little late on the table. It would have been very helpful if we had had that proposal while negotiating the pool agreement, and we have just finished it after many, many negotiations, and we have set aside 55.6 million in this context. kr. to the theme we are discussing here under B 1. There are a great many good elements in it, and in the Radical Left we therefore have the tradition, the position, that when we have just reached an agreement which includes violence in this case in close relations and dealing with it, we respect that agreement, and then we do not put forward a new proposal which deals with the same thing, the week after the agreement has been concluded. It's kind of the first time in the 29 years I've been in the Folketing that I've been through this, so it's not quite normal, I'd say. But I accept that, of course, because we have a free country, if I may say so, and we can do things in the order in which we think it is appropriate. But it is certainly not appropriate for the result to be late in the quotation marks. So we are very concerned about implementing what we have agreed during the pool negotiations and we are pleased with every part of it, and we are also pleased that one of the proposals is that the Council of Social Affairs Ministers will have a new task, namely to establish a national unit against violence in close relations, which among other things. to gain experience and follow developments in practice, with the intention of strengthening cooperation and communicating across municipalities and crisis centres and outpatient counselling centres or services that can support coherent and comprehensive action. Because we have to recognise that the number of women and men, and hence children who are affected by violence in close relationships, is quite unacceptable, regardless of whether it was only one who was exposed to it, that is of course unacceptable. However, we also need to try much more decisively than we may have done, to look at several different parts of the experience that is being done around the country in an attempt to improve the conditions of those who are victims of violence and to avoid violence in the future. I think it is also worth mentioning that, according to section 109 of the Social Services Act, municipalities must already offer initial and coordinating advice on housing, the economy, the labour market, day care and health, at the latest when the relocation begins, and for women and children to move into housing, which is also equivalent to a post-protection effort, one might say. It is important to hold the municipalities to the task and not lurk them into the idea that because we have a number of well-functioning and skilled women's crisis centres or shelters for men, that task is solved. Because it's not. Municipalities must also contribute far more offensively than they may in any case do. So in those words I would just like to say that although B1 is a sympathetic proposal, the Radical Left cannot support it under the circumstances.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111140237	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111140241	Yes, so I think I am doing something good for democracy if I get a myth killed here today, because you can almost get that impression, and so did you, if you listen to the rapporteur from the Left that this is the kind of thing we just lazy come running with and throw on the table here today, because we just remembered it one week after the pitch pool agreement. Let's get the history straight: This project will be evaluated in spring 2016, this year. That is where we are told that the four-year project, which ended in the New Year 2015/16, was actually a success. So it is only after that that you can really decide if you want to build on something that works. Then, on behalf of the Social Democrats, I have announced that we would like it to continue. I did that in April 2016, and I've been saying it ever since, I don't know how many times. We have had two consultations with the Minister for Social Affairs on this, where we have pressed for it, and I think the Minister for Social Affairs can confirm that with everything we could to get the government to give itself in that area. There has been no interest in that. I have two pool rapporteurs, such as folders and notes and arguments, etc. will be sent to betpool negotiations, among others. with this demand as a significant social democratic demand. Then we will not succeed in getting it through. We're gonna get all sorts of other good things through. It's fine, but we're not gonna get this through. So we have put forward this proposal, and it can be seen that on 5 October 2016 it has been distributed in the Folketing. So I've been talking about it for 1⁄2 years, and you've got it on October 5th. So stop pretending like it's something that just suddenly fell off the moon.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111140420	The rapporteur spent more than twice the time of what we have to ask a question. I would like to recommend that we follow the rules on speaking time. Rasmus Horn Langhoff Yes, but I can waive the second question then in return). We're not about that kind of thing. Here you go, then it's the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111140431	Thank you for your wise remarks, sir. President. Yes, that is all quite correct: what the chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality in Denmark says. I have full respect for it, but I will just have to say that it is not everything you put forward that is also coming through because, as a party in the Folketing, you do not have a majority in yourself. I respect the fact that the Social Democrats have brought it with them to the stake pool negotiations. It is perfectly logical and clear. But I must also note that it was not included in the pool agreement in the form it has in B1. That is what I am saying: an agreement has been reached, and I stand by that agreement, which means that I cannot and will not support B1, regardless of the fact that I think it is very sympathetic, because it has not been included in the overall effort for which we have given a great deal of money out of the approximately one billion kroner allocated in the social field. That is just the statement I make here from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111140536	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111140541	Thank you. I would just like to ask Mrs Marianne Jelved how long that clause will apply. That is one question. The second question is: is that all that is involved in the social pool agreement to which that clause applies? I ask because I have not been in the negotiations, so I certainly do not know whether it is the whole social area that is now closed down and for how long. There is also only one year for the next wage-pool agreement, so if it is valid for a year, we will probably not get much further than what is done in the wage-pool agreement. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111140627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111140627-2	That depends entirely on the situation and what part of the social policy area it is. For it may of course be that one or another situation arises which means that the circle of conciliation parties says: then we must try whether we can find another solution now. I can't deny that. But with what I am saying now, namely that we have just concluded a debate on the subject that B1 is dealing with, I think it is certainly a very, very new style that it will then be taken up in the Folketing and a separate agreement will have to be made on it. It was simply not included in the agreement reached between eight parties. And it is rare for a party to get through with all its own policy at once in such a context. We are good at negotiating and distributing solutions, if I may say so, and taking into account the wishes that have been expressed. And we have actually been through how to improve opportunities for women and men who experience violence in close relationships, how to help children and who is responsible for what. That is why it is also important for me to emphasise that the municipalities have a responsibility, and I apologise, President!
ParlaMint-DK_20161111140742	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111140743	I understand what Mrs Marianne Jelved says. It was just not really an answer to my question, because in the pool agreement, violence in close relationships is dealt with. I think we are doing something good, I do not think we are doing enough, but in the case of vulnerable young people, children with adhd, children to be adopted through consent, vulnerable Greenlanders, vulnerable children and young people in Greenland, and now it is out of the question to go on in all these areas, and for how long?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111140819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111140820	Thank you. Yeah, it's gonna wait till next year if we're gonna bring more stuff. After all, the rate pool has been used on some of the themes mentioned by Mrs Pernille Skipper. So it's waiting.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111140834	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111140845	It is important for the SF to step up its efforts against the perpetrators of violence. It was during the pool negotiations, and it will continue to be. We need help with this group. It is a very important political priority that we try to improve and support the effort, both when it comes to urgent aid, for example. in crisis centres, and when it comes to helping the victim of violence to set up a life where violence is absent. That is why we also agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution, which is aimed at helping the victims of violence so that they can have a safe life without violence. It is true that psychological interviews for women and men in crisis centres can be one of the many important contributions to strengthening the processing and rehabilitation of victims of violence, and that is why I and the SF can also support the motion for a resolution that an offer of psychological consultations should be established in the crisis centres for the benefit of the victims of violence. At the same time, however, I think it is important to emphasise that we have only last week negotiated this area, as has also been mentioned several times. In the recently completed wage-pool negotiations, we arrived at an agreement which gives a great many good things priority. Along with others. The authors of the proposals have just taken some important steps so that people who are exposed to violence in close relationships can receive more help and more advice. After all, in the pool agreement, we have set aside funds to improve efforts both for the victims of violence and for their children who are seeking outpatient care and for those who are going to the shelter. A national unit against violence must be established and established in close relations. Among other things, it must: continue the national hotline to be used both for advice in acute cases and for less acute cases, i.e.: further referred to other relevant offers such as: a shelter. It must also ensure that the victims of violence are able to obtain legal advice in the form of both individual approaches and longer counselling courses, and this is very important. At the same time, the rate-pool agreement will ensure greater coordination in this area and a greater collection of knowledge and experience for the benefit of future work in the field of violence, because I actually think that this is an area that needs even more development and even more comprehensive knowledge in this area. Finally, but very important, the post-protection efforts are being strengthened. This will help the violent person to work on the experience of violence and create a foundation for moving on with a life free from violence. through social networking groups, which will have the participation of a psychologist. When I mention this here, it is because our support for the Social Democratic motion for a resolution today in no way discredits the great effort we have just prioritised in the rate pool. We in the SF are very pleased with the elements that are covered by the rate pool and that I have just reviewed. But we are also ready to look at how we can do even better in the future. That is why we can support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111141156	Then we thank Mrs Trine Torp. There are no brief comments. The last rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111141210	Thank you. Like many of the previous rapporteurs, I would like to begin by thanking the proposers for having put forward the proposal for free psychological assistance for victims of violence in the country's crisis centres. The Conservative People's Party thus shares the intentions of the resolution, namely that it should be possible for victims of violence seeking refuge in the country's crisis centres to receive the necessary help. It is important to ensure that the victim of violence has the effect of working on the experience of violence and is helped to move on to a day-to-day life without violence. There are already a large number of efforts to help victims of violence move on to a new and safer everyday life. Furthermore, an agreement has just been reached, which we have heard about eight times earlier today, and it has been praised eight times in the past, so I do not know if I might skip that part, but just say that it is of course also something we have been involved in and that it is something we are proud to be part of. This does not necessarily mean that we cannot do more for families affected by violence in crisis centres, but that means that we have already started a great deal of work, such as this one. strengthen the prevention and post-protection of victims of violence. If later it turns out that further initiatives are needed to help the victims of violence effectively, we are also ready to support it. But we cannot support B1 right now despite the well-intentioned intentions. Instead, I call for an ongoing evaluation of the efforts already under way to ensure that the best possible assistance is provided to those affected by the violence.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111141351	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. There is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur by Mr Seligman. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111141358	Thank you. I will try to summarize what is actually being said. I hear the Conservative rapporteur share the intention and would like to use the tools that are now in use. So there's no such religious relationship to it having to be that way or that way. We share the intention that we should help some people who desperately need help. And Conservatives do not support the resolution as it stands here. But that is why we have the process we have, we can change it. We're in business here with us. And that is also why it comes to the Committee on Gender Equality, where we can look at it and see if we can agree on something. But will the rapporteur not do a little more, not on the specific motion for a resolution, but on the concrete idea of the urgency and the free-of-charge? For the rapporteur must, of course, share the understanding that you can get help on the day of violence at a shelter with your young person under his arm that it is better than having to wait two months.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111141508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111141510	I think we can agree on this quickly, but I think the Minister put it quite precisely when the Minister gave the speech, in other words that crisis centres organize themselves differently in some places, you arrange with some network groups, where there may be psychologists attached to both the people who come to the shelters, as well as those who are different; they are as different as all other citizens of society are. So I just do not want to make the point that the only thing that is right is precisely this proposal in relation to solving the problems that exist in the crisis centres. That is just what I am trying to say: we need to spend the money wisely and we need to spend it most efficiently.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111141546	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111141550	Is the rapporteur aware of one of our shelters just one; yet we have a number of those who do not want this scheme to continue and who do not want to be able to offer this offer to people who are bent on bringing their children under their arms? I just have to say that the shelters read exactly the same in the evaluations and conclusions of the Social Services Agency, as all of us do, namely that this works.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111141622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111141623	Yes, but I just have to say, as I said before, that they must be allowed to adjust in the way they can or want to adapt, and there are so many people who can adapt to the fact that they have psychological help. They're free to do that. And that's why I don't see the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111141639	The questioner. Has he spent his time? That's all he needs. Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party and welcomes the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111141719	Thank you, and I got the floor here anyway. With this resolution, we in the Social Democratic Party want to ensure that victims of violence seeking refuge in the country's crisis centres are given the opportunity to receive emergency, free psychological assistance during their stay, so that they can have a number of psychological lessons. We are suggesting here that the minimum of four psychological conversations may be, and the purpose of the scheme is that the victims of violence can have their experiences and abuses processed, and this is to strengthen them in their ability to break with violence and to be there for their children. In the proposal, we propose that this psychological assistance be anchored locally at the individual crisis center, so that the individual victims of the violence do not have to go into themselves, for example. the local authority and get a medical reference and perhaps be awarded grants of up to 60%. We are also suggesting that you should not pay for yourself, but that it should be financed by us, which costs 4 million. kr. So you don't have to wait these 7-8 weeks, as the waiting time is for the victims of violence. After all, it is a stake pool project, which ran from the beginning of 2012 to the end of 2015. We saw the evaluation at the beginning of 2016, so it is quite natural that when you have a project that you put in the lake and that you subsequently find work, you take the positive experiences with you in the political work. We have repeatedly called on the government to resolve this with us, and we have also been very interested in helping to find the economy in this so that the scheme can continue. We think it would be a shame if this project, which turns out to be a huge success, could not continue. These are some of the most desperate and pressured people we have in this country who are in the most critical and probably most dangerous situation in their lives, and they must have the help, including the psychological assistance they need both in order to take care of themselves, but also in order to take care of their children. We believe, and I have said this several times, that Denmark can afford to help these people. In fact, we do not think we can afford not to help these people; neither economically nor humanly can we afford not to help these people. This applies both to the victims of violence, and to women in particular. This proposal includes both men and women, but this applies especially to children, who are the greatest victims in this whole context. Many of them themselves suffer violence in one way or another, while the rest are witnessing violence, and it can be just as offensive to witness a parent being beaten. When I was out with this at the beginning of the year, I didn't really have the imagination to imagine that it was something that would be poured down the board so that I would spend the year fighting for this, because I had actually expected that there would have been more support. This is not some socialist proposal just pulled out of its sleeve, it is our joint proposal, it is our joint venture agreement that we have made! We started this project in 2012 to see if it worked and because there was a desire to get it tested. The Left, along with the parties that are now criticising it and saying: what is this? Well, you've been involved in making this proposal yourself, and now the evaluation, the Social Protection Agency's own evaluation, shows that it works. It helps women break off violence, and it helps women to be there for their children. It's $4 million. kr. To give this help a year, a little less than 1 kroner. per Dane! Now I have toured around with this message most of the year, both here in the Chamber, in consultation, in the press and out for debate meetings, and I haven't met a single one yet who has come and asked to get his crown back in taxes, because you don't think this help was worth the money I haven't met a single one. If you meet anyone, please pass them on to me. I have not met any people who think it is sensible to invest in the victims of violence and their children. I think it's poor that we don't do it. I can count, of course, and I can see that there is not a majority in favour of this resolution, but nothing in favour of the resolution, because it is about its content. I would also like to sign the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF to back up, and I would also like to sign the Liberal Alliance and perhaps the Conservative, I never quite managed to find out, which somehow gives a hand in that we might be able to figure this out, but in a different form. Yeah, well, let's do it. I don't have to be the sender on this, I don't care who gets credit for this, I just want us to solve this problem, because I don't think we can afford not to. I think I told you what's on my mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111142256	Thank you. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur of the proposers. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111142318	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111142340	Thank you for that, President. The proposers of B6 propose that before the end of the parliamentary year, the government should put forward a draft law guaranteeing the right of women exposed to violence, following a stay at a crisis centre. The aim of B6 is to prevent a wide range of social consequences of violence for both women and children and to prevent a recurrence of violence by strengthening women in establishing a normal everyday life without the violent partner. I should like to begin, as in the previous debate we have just concluded, by stating quite clearly that it is totally unacceptable that some people should experience violence by their loved ones. We cannot do that, and we should not accept it. The government agrees with the proposers that we as a society have a responsibility to help and support those women and men who have the courage to leave their violent partner. People who are victims of violence are a very vulnerable group and the violent relationship can lead to long-term psychological consequences, and that is why we also share the intention behind motion for a resolution B 6 to support women who have resided in a crisis centre in returning to a day-to-day life without violence. That support can also be obtained today, and that support must also be given today. Because in this country, I believe, we have developed a finely masked setup consisting of efforts aimed at helping women move on to a new and safer everyday life without violence. The crisis centers are a central part of this effort, where the violent woman and her children, if any, can be protected, can be given security and care and support to process the violence experience. However, the transition from a crisis centre to a new everyday life can be difficult, perhaps especially if you have had a long-term stay at a crisis centre, and that was also the reason why we changed the legislation last year. We amended Article 109 of the Services Act, which specifically concerns women's crisis centres. The change means that all women in shelters now have the right to receive initial and coordinating advice from a municipal employee. It is a clear task position and it is indisputable that the task is there and that the law is there and the law must be observed. The purpose of this is precisely to create far better conditions for women's relocation from the crisis centre and also to help women in the difficult transition from the crisis centre to a new life free from violence. The content of coordinating counselling must be adapted to the situation and needs of each woman, and it must be given in relation to housing, the economy, the labour market, school, day care, health care, etc. The advice must therefore support the individual parts of the municipality's other offers, and it must be implemented at the latest when preparing for the relocation, and it must be given until the woman and any children are established in their own homes. It is clearly described in the legislation, it has been repeated here, and I would also like to make that very clear to the municipalities. At the moment, a special method is being tested for the organization of coordinating counselling in a number of municipalities. The method is called the CTI, and it has previously been tested with some quite good results for other target groups, among others. To the homeless. The purpose of testing this is to support the woman in establishing a life without violence, but of course also to reduce the harm that may be caused by the violence. Then I will come back to what we have also had a debate on when dealing with the last motion for a resolution, in other words that we have just agreed in the pool of rates on a significant boost and a significant effort in the whole field of violence in general. That's a boost of just over 65 million. kr. over the next four years for a number of initiatives to improve existing efforts. This is therefore a rather ambitious package of initiatives, which means that action in the field of violence will be more knowledge-based, but that it will also be more comprehensive and that a broader focus will be placed on the efforts to combat violence. This applies both to the target group, where, with the new initiatives, we ensure that both sexes are also focussed on helping the victims of violence, but we are also spreading the focus by looking at the large group of men and women exposed to violence who do not find their way to a crisis centre, and we are doing so, among other things. by allocating funds for the continuation and spread of outpatient services to persons living with violence in close relationships. One of the out-patient offers that we have decided to extend, and which have also been mentioned in connection with the examination of the last resolution, is the Mother's Aid project • Out of the Shadow of Violence, which is also highlighted here in the motion for a resolution as an example of a post-protection project. The agreement also contains an initiative for a post-protection effort in the form of social networking groups, which should address both women, men and their children at risk of violence. But it's also important to say that these network groups are going to create a space where each violent person together with others in a similar situation gets help to process the violence experience and help it start a new phase in life, a life without violence. And, of course, the network groups must not only address violence at crisis centres, but must also address all the victims of violence - men and women alike - and, as was also discussed in a previous proposal, they must also have the participation of a psychologist. This initiative is anchored in a national unit against violence in close relations, such as: should also be responsible for the national hotline and legal advice for the victims of violence. So these offers can also help people who have been at a shelter, with support, guidance and legal assistance in the post-crisis center period, thus helping to help the individual to a safe life without violence and without threats. The new venture pool initiative here is a testimony to the fact that together we share the intention to support those who have resided at a crisis centre in returning to a day-to-day life without violence. However, in the government, we do not believe that a right to protection is the right way to go, because a number of measures have already been launched today aimed at helping women affected by violence in the transition from a crisis centre to an independent life without violence. As has been said, it is a right to initial coordinating advice, testing the CTI method for women who are relocating a crisis centre, and then, in general, the significant increase in efforts to people exposed to violence in close relationships, among other things. with the funds for this post-protection effort in the new rate pool agreement. So in those words, I will end up concluding that the government cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111143112	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111143113	Yeah. I am sitting here with the pool agreement, and under the heading of national unity against violence in close relationships, it says that there is support for post-protection activities for men and women exposed to violence, as well as children in the form of social networking groups with the participation of psychologists. Is it the Minister's view that in this way it encapsulates what is also in B-6? So, is it the Minister's view that it solves the problem that B6 will solve?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111143151	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111143151-2	No, it's not alone. In fact, I believe that the most important thing at all in relation to the solution around the time after a crisis centre stay is precisely the clear decision, the clear law we have in section 109 of the Service Act about exactly the municipality's commitment to this coordination, this contact. I very much believe that this is the most important element of life after a stay at a shelter.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111143223	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111143224	It is not clear from the motion for a resolution how much it costs. After all, it is important to know, because even if you decide, some money has to fall. I see that Enhedslisten himself has tried to ask the Minister to make an assessment of the cost. The Enhedslisten asked about this on 28 April this year, so the Minister has at least had a little more than seven months to calculate what the Enhedslisten's proposal will cost. If we adopt this today, it will have to be paid. What is the Minister's and Ministry's assessment of what it will cost if we say yes to this proposal? That's what we need to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111143315	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111143315-2	I don't have an estimate on that at hand. I know that we set aside permanent funds in connection with the rate pool agreement, when we made the changes to the legislation on the obligation of municipalities to do precisely this coordinating effort, and freely from my memory I think it is about 13 million. kr. annual to that commitment. So in the whole discussion of considering the right to post-protection as part of the crisis centre effort, we are in the situation in Denmark that the tariff, that is, what the public pays for the stay at the shelters for a woman, also has a self-payment, about DKK 3,000. from the outset, if you have the option to pay for the stay yourself, you will have between 30,000 and 60,000 DKK. a month, when a woman is staying at a crisis centre, and it is, after all, a financing that is shared between municipalities and states, so that the state finances 50 per cent. of the stay.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111143421	Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111143423	Finally, the Minister replied to what it would cost to have a stay at a shelter, and not to what it would cost to be in detention, in other words to introduce such a right of defence. But I can almost understand that if we ask the question one more time, the Ministry will do the calculations for us. So we will pass on that in writing with regard to the proposal here. The Minister says that the government cannot support the proposal with reference to the coordinating advice provided by the municipalities. You just have to say that there is no psychological help in it. I mean, it's not a defense that involves a psychological aid. Nor is it anchored in the shelters from which women move out. That is the crucial problem of section 109 from our point of view. I would like the Minister to comment on that, and I would also like to comment on that, among other things. The Danner House, of course, has praised the initiative in the movement pool, which in fact provides support for after-protection groups with the presence of psychologists, but at the same time also criticises that this is not what is being made a right, so that it is permanent. That is what is absolutely essential with this proposal, namely whether it will be a permanent right for women to lean on in the Service Act in the future or whether we should continue to get it introduced from the pool of rates to the pool of rates?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111143542	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111143543	I am quite aware of what Enhedslisten's wish is about rights to one, right to the other, right to the third. And every time you say that right to you and that, well then, you have to base your calculations on the fact that then it is all that has to be included, and so initiatives become more expensive. In the previous debate on the right to psychological assistance at shelters, the claim is that it probably costs 4 million. kr. No, it doesn't when you make it a right. Then it's a bigger amount, it's a higher amount. That is why I think it is important to be involved in this discussion, what is actually being spent by money on these initiatives in general, and what is actually the duty in the legislation exactly in terms of coordination, which, to me, is a very, very crucial effort and a very, very crucial commitment in relation to the municipality's core task of helping people who are struggling with various social issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111143635	Thank you, Minister. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111143641	I'll just take another 30 seconds, if I may. Thank you. What I hear the Minister say is that it is crucial what money is spent on it. Of course, everything has to be financed. That is also why it is a little mysterious that we cannot get an answer to what the government estimates it will cost. We'll send a written question one more time, and then I'm sure we'll get an answer with an estimate this time. Would the Minister not agree with the fact that the shelters are asking for a post-protection service that is not only coordinating, but also with psychosocial support, the right to psychological assistance inside the post-protection service and that it is being registered as a right? Then it will be the case that all the women who need it will have the right to do so, and not just those who are equally able to do so in this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111143724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111143725	I am happy to answer the questions I receive and make calculations about how much things cost. Then you have to be very specific about what it is. What I really think is a little sad and somewhat inadequate in this debate we have today, both with this resolution and also what we had in the past, is in fact this very narrow focus on what is happening at a women's crisis centre when you look at how many people are exposed to violence. I believe that we have taken a very, very good initiative with our stake pool agreement, where we are talking much more preventively at all, and where we are also focused on exactly the way out from the violence-related partnerships that you might have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111143807	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111143831	Thank you. After all, there are a great many good elements in this motion for a resolution, B-6, tabled by Enhedslisten. And that is nothing new, that is, a proposal that has just been put forward on top of the pool agreement. After all, it is one that has been put forward a long time ago and something that Enhedslisten has been talking about for quite some time and has been trying to find calculations on, and then the rate pool agreement has come here a week ago. But that's how we work. This is something that has been going on for a long time, as has the previous resolution. What is meant by this motion for a resolution is that, in relation to the efforts being made, it is not just about strengthening the opportunities for the violent to break with violence, but also to continue to be away from violence, so that after breaking with violence and after treatment, we did not see the same violent relationship or another violent relationship. This is what we're talking about here. It's a very, very important focus to have. That is also why I was enthusiastic about the pool agreement. There were a lot of things I was excited about. I would, of course, have liked to have had it with psychological help at crisis centres also included in the rate pool agreement, but when it was not there, fortunately there were many other things to be excited about in the rate pool agreement. One of the things I'm excited about is that section and now I'm reading from the texts here... about post-protection activities for violent men and women as well as children in the social network group. So, this unit is assigned to establish post-protection interventions in the form of social network groups for the victims of violence and their children. They must therefore help the victims of violence to process the experience of violence and to create a better foundation for moving forward with a life without violence. And in these network groups, there's also going to be a psychologist. In my ears, it sounds like the same in relation to the issues raised in the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution, or to be able to solve some of the same problems. So I think that we should now look at it and follow it to the end, and then it may actually work, which is the intention. And then, of course, as with everything else we do, we must keep up to date on whether things work the way they should. So this means that social democracy cannot now and here give support to B6. Another point is, of course, the element that I myself asked about and which the Enhedslisten's rapporteur has also asked about sometimes gradually, namely that we have to have a calculation of it here. We must then get that through the work of the committee or know that the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, the author of the motion himself, will have to dig into it. We need to know how much things cost, I mean. We cannot sit here and decide things without knowing what the price is; I do not think that will be responsible. So, of course, we also need a calculation of that. But basically I think, the more I dive into this pool agreement, that it covers some of the intentions of this excellent proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111144154	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111144155	I am therefore pleased that the Social Democratic Party supports the intention of the proposal. I fully agree that what has been agreed in the post-protection rate pool is really, really good, and we are, in fact, also being praised by, among others. The Danner House, which has been running campaigns and petitioning to get such a defense. What they then wrote to all the gender and social rapporteurs yesterday and I am quite sure that Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff has read the e-mail that they really, really want it to be a permanent right that you have as a victim, especially a woman, that is to say you know that you can lean on it and that you should not be dependent on it being run through and repeated year after year in a wager pool agreement to be sure that it is there. Should I understand the otherwise praiseworthy words so that the Social Democratic Party ^ if it turns out to be working; again, should I say hello and say "will consider making a defense a right in the Service Act?"
ParlaMint-DK_20161111144300	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111144301	No, we do not provide any support for any of the current agreements that have been made in the past to be amended. In relation to the e-mail, I would like to say that I also read my e-mails, and I also have a very good and firm dialogue with a lot of people in that area, including with the crisis centres, and I have also once or perhaps 100 heard the desire to get it here and so get away from this frustration by never really knowing whether you have been bought or sold after New Year. So the fact that you can continue your work on a more permanent operation, get on to the Finance Act, so that there is some more certainty about the work you are doing. I kind of get that. It may be that it can be met in other ways, but I understand, because they must also consider whether they are going to dismiss people or whether they should cancel leases. So, the way this is designed is a very difficult way to work, and they deserve some solutions to it. I am not sure that this proposal will solve the overall problem, but I hope it will eventually be.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111144416	Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111144417	I guess I don't have to say anything to Mr. Knox. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, that Enhedslisten is not in the bet pool for the reason that the money for this defense, which is really good, has been taken from some of the most vulnerable in our society in advance • folkepensioners, cash benefit recipients and all sorts of others. That's one thing. The second thing is, as Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff himself says that you do not know whether you are bought or sold. However, if you make the post-protection right, it will have the additional effect that women can lean against the right, support right on it, also require it if the pot has run out that year. And that is why I sincerely hope that one day we will persuade the Social Democratic Party that this should be written into the Service Act, so that you have the right to it as a woman with violence.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111144506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111144506-2	If I were to run a crisis center one day, my very determined desire would be to go to the Finance Act, because there would be a completely different political stability around it, and that would make it much easier to do your job and not have to go all the time and look at the calendar and have a stomach ache over it, but really spend more energy doing your job. So we'd be doing a lot of people a favor if we had some more security around it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111144535	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111144544	At the risk that my rapporteur's speeches are somewhat similar and are in line with the resolution we discussed earlier, namely B 1, I would of course say that we in the Danish People's Party are very concerned about helping women exposed to violence, men exposed to violence and children exposed to violence. In relation to this, we have just made a good agreement, which has just focused on a holistic approach. As the Minister mentioned, on 1 July 2015, a legal requirement was introduced for municipalities to offer advice to all women at shelters. In addition, a project study is also under way to examine whether the municipal advisory obligation can be made even more effective by testing the CTI method against women who are moving away from a women's crisis centre, because the CTI method has also shown very good results in the area of homeless people. In relation to the agreement we have just reached, we have also decided, as the authors of the motion for a resolution refer to, to strengthen outpatient counselling for people exposed to violence in close relationships through the continuation and dissemination of the Mother's Aid project •Out of the Violence Shadow, which has just delivered very good results, where the aim is also to help those who are today not on shelters. That is why I think we have done a number of good things. In relation to the post-protection issue, it is also a discussion that we have generally in the area of children and young people when children and young people move away from their foster families, day-care centres or something else. Of course, it is important to help children and young people, but also to help women, men and their children further in the process when they are finished at a women's crisis centre. In view of all this work on women's crisis centres, there must also be a dialogue with the municipalities. Thank God we have a good service law today in terms of helping. We also have Section 5 of the Law on legal certainty, where the municipalities are obliged to look at both social legislation and other legislation in the whole area. With regard to section 129 of the Service Act, which is also part of it, we in the Danish People's Party have a great desire to have men enrolled in section 109 of the Service Act, because in relation to the entire gender perspective, men must also be offered the same opportunities as women are offered. We are engaged in helping in the Danish People's Party, and we think we have done the same with the agreement that has just been reached. If what I said earlier in my rapporteur's speech turns out, when we evaluate this, that we have to screw things up and do something else, we are also willing to look at that part. Those were my words from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111144908	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111144931	With this resolution, the Enhedslisten wants to focus on women's right to post-protection after stay at the shelter. The intention behind the proposal is sympathetic and no one can disagree with the fact that in such a vulnerable situation women have the right to protection. However, despite the agreement on this, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution, and this is due to two things: on the one hand, the existing efforts in our optics are thorough and ambitious; on the other hand, we have set aside more than 60 million in the newly concluded 2017 rate pool agreement. kr. to strengthen existing efforts in the field of violence. In other words, there are already a number of measures in place to help victims of violence in the period following a stay at a shelter. That is not to say that we do not continue to focus on strengthening the area. This is highlighted among other things. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. Here we have a concrete initiative on post-protection efforts in the form of social network groups. I note that Danish women are basically very satisfied with the offers and efforts of crisis centres. This is shown by the evaluation published by the Social Protection Agency last autumn, which has been mentioned several times both on this agenda item and the previous one, a study which among other things. stressed that, in the opinion of the women interviewed, the crisis centres function as a free space after the end of their stay. This is a welcome response and a positive response for the women who use the shelters, and we must also make sure that the victims of the violence do so in the future. However, as I said, the intention behind the proposal is sympathetic, absolutely, but on the basis of the outlined arguments and motivations, the Left believes that the existing efforts and future initiatives are sufficient in terms of the rights of women affected by violence to defend themselves. Against this background, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution, and I should like to welcome the Conservatives and inform them of the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111145236	Thank you. There are questions from Mrs Pernille Skipper. And it would really be very good if the rapporteurs moved up a little when they know they are the next rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111145245	Thank you. I'm actually just gonna try to pull it apart a little bit. After all, the government itself has made the government that Carl Holst's party itself is part of a wager pool agreement, where you sort of make the defense demanded by women's crisis centres, and which Dannerhuset has campaigned for and asked people to sign to be made, and spent, I don't know how much energy trying to pressure us in here to get implemented as a right. They say it's very unstable that you have to jump from tub to tub to make this defense. They say that it is so important that it is anchored in the crisis centres that the transition from the crisis centre to the real world, which is what needs to be addressed, is as easy as possible. And they say that it is important that it becomes a right that you can rely on as a woman if you are violent. Why doesn't the Left want exactly that anchoring?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111145357	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111145358	Because the Left wants to look at the time and look at what experience we get and look at what kind of bids are coming in.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111145411	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111145412	But it's existed before. I mean, I mean it quite sincerely: the psychosocial post-protection anchored in the crisis centres has just been tried and had enormous success. And that is in the light of the experience of women's crisis centres: permanentising it, making it a right, let us now get it anchored so that we are sure that it can go on. How many years of experience does it take?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111145445	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111145445-2	The approach from the Left is that the most important thing for us is not who and this is the process we are now looking forward to, i.e. how we will organise the work on the implementation of this part of the pool agreement in a way that will enable us to achieve what we would like best in the field of defence, and not who, but what we get out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111145517	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Danny K. Malkowski, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111145528	Thank you, President. In the Liberal Alliance, we agree with the proposers that much must be done to try to break the vicious circle of violence in close relations. Perhaps a better defense is a very good tool to make up with the unfortunate patterns. It is therefore also gratifying that it has been prioritised with the rate pool, which we have heard so many times today. We think it is very good that we are now starting with a fixed-term arrangement under the heading of the rate pool. If it turns out that the scheme is a resounding success, we are, of course, also willing to look at whether it should be made permanent either in its present form or in a modified form. But now that we have a solution in the years ahead, we think it would be weird to decide to adopt a permanent system right now before we have had the opportunity to evaluate the solution that is there now, after the trial period. Against this background, the Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111145613	Thank you to the rapporteur. No, Mrs Pernille Skipper has just a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111145617	Thank you. I'm both happy and puzzled. On the one hand, I am glad that it is said that one is open to perpetualising the post-protection efforts on the basis of the experience gained with what has now been agreed in the wagering pool. It's written down, it's noted, and we'll be back. What surprises me, on the other hand, was also why I was surprised that the rapporteur of the Left said about the same thing is that the experience is there. The women's crisis centres have done this before. This is not the first time there has been a pool of rates for such a project, quite the contrary. So all the experience tells us that it is good that it works, that it is exactly what needs to be done and that it should preferably be anchored in the crisis centres. I mean, how many experiences and over how many years are we gonna have? So, next time it expires, do we have enough experience? Is that where we're gonna do it, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111145717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111145719	I can only repeat what my colleague, the rapporteur from the Left, has said. I mean, it's not for us who's implementing these actions. It is for us what we get out of it. And there we have a pool agreement that looks at how we deal with this not only for women affected by violence in shelters, but also for apo States and for men. I really think that is a good thing, and I think that we should look at what the results will be for that. And then, as I said in the rapporteur's speech, we can look at whether we should make it permanent or adjust it, depending on what the report of 2, 3 or 4 years will point out by good and bad things. At this stage, however, we do not believe that we should go into a permanent arrangement, as the Enhedslisten proposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111145754	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111145756	Well, the results are already there. So I don't quite understand what you're gonna have anymore. But I don't get more polemic about it. I would just like to ask whether, in principle, the Liberal Alliance is not opposed to making it a permanent right, in other words whether it can be done if it turns out that it works well.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111145822	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111145823	Well, as I have said, if we can see that the arrangement that has been put into the sea now, by virtue of the pool agreement, turns out to be a staggering success, then we are in favour of permanentising it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111145832	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111145841	Thank you. The aim of the proposal is to establish post-protection for men and women exposed to violence as a right following a stay at a shelter. It also calls for men to be included, as stated in the comments. We like that in the alternative, where we try to put equality very, very high. Approx. 33,000 women are subjected to violence every year. 33,000 children under the age of 15 overhear this violence, at least in 2010. This in itself provides good arguments for supporting this proposal. It is incredibly important to stop this negative spiral. 79% of women in shelters indicate that their current partner has been subjected to violence in the childhood home. We believe that Enhedslisten is right in saying that defense can help break this evil spiral because it, among other things. enable women to leave their violent partner. But since we are in the process of breaking patterns, we should also just round the core of the problem very briefly, namely the perpetrators of violence. For even if the violent woman is helped in life instead of returning to the perpetrator, the perpetrator does not disappear. He or she is likely to have a new boyfriend and perhaps more children, and there is a great chance that he or she will send several partners towards the country's shelters with major consequences for more children. And here it is relevant just to look briefly at whether the treatment of the rapist is possible and what experience is with it. Fortunately, we have some experience here that points in the right direction. One of the key interventions in this area is AskovFonden's nationwide treatment offer, •Dialog Against Violence. The clear goal of the treatment is to stop the violence. The rapist is offered a course focusing on recognising and taking responsibility for his violent actions. According to Dialog Against Violence, it works. 75% of those who have been treated are no longer violent according to Dialog Against Violence. That is why the alternative would also like to suggest that we should be able to think about whether we could legislate on the right to treatment for the perpetrator, now that we are trying to break a negative pattern. In the alternative, we are pleased that the fight against the perpetrators of violence is part of the overall effort that we have helped to support through the rate pool, but that does not make the post-protection efforts in the crisis centres any less relevant. However, I would like to say that, as has also been mentioned earlier today, we have just concluded a wage-pool agreement in the social field, in which defence is an important element. A national unit shall be set up to ensure that knowledge and experience in this field can be used to strengthen efforts. At the same time, efforts must help establish post-protection activities for the victims of violence in the form of social networking groups with the participation of a psychologist. With this effort, there will be both the possibility of group and psychological assistance. At the same time, there is also in the pool agreement that it needs to be further developed, what it is that works for the individual victims of violence. That is why I have to say today that I and the alternative are in favour of the resolution. We have great sympathy for its purpose. Right now, I have some doubts as to whether there is a need for a definite amendment of the law or an extension of Article 109 of the Services Act, given that we have just initiated initiatives in this area which, without a change of law, may support exactly the same action against the victims of violence. In fact, I do not see the great differences between the proposed resolution and what we have just achieved with the rate pool agreement. I would therefore be in favour of the motion for a resolution, but at the same time, in a possible committee process, I would like the ongoing implementation of safeguards, which is carried out in accordance with the rate pool, to be taken into account. In essence, therefore, I am waiting for the motion for a resolution and look forward to a possible referral to committee. I should like to say from the SF that they share the same opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111150215	Mrs Pernille Skipper for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111150219	I would like to read from the letter that Dannerhuset also sent to the Alternative yesterday. They write that the wage-pool settlement in the social field was concluded on Friday, including. protection with psychological treatment. This is quite the right direction, I agree, in parentheses noted but, as everyone knows, the rate pool is limited to 4 years. Unfortunately, this is too short a time to reach all the people who need help. The Danner House believes that psychological assistance to women who live and have lived in crisis centres should be a right, in other words a permanent opportunity, which women can accept if they need this support. When you support the proposal, you can save the individual woman and any children she may have, and it continues. Doesn't the alternative agree with the Danner House here?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111150300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111150302	Mrs Pernille Skipper may also be kicking a little on an open door, because one of the reasons why we are sending such positive signals towards this proposal is precisely that it would be wise to do this permanently if you could put it that way. Like other rapporteurs, we need to dive a little deeper into it to see if there can be overlap, how this is going to work, and how the text about these post-protection initiatives, which we have been betting on in the big package, is going to look exactly like. Then take it as a positive signal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111150341	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111150343	But I also take this as a positive signal. So did I when the Liberal Alliance and the Left said exactly the same thing. It is noted and we write it into a reminder in the calendar in the Enhedslisten. Boom, four years, we're gonna make the proposal one more time. It's not a problem. I just have to understand it, because what is being put into effect with the bet pool is not new. This isn't the first time you've done this after-care thing. The crisis centres have shouted about it, by the way, almost before the alternative was formed, and said that this is what works, so I am amazed. What kind of knowledge are we missing?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111150421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111150423	Both the SF and the alternative are positive about the proposal. As I have also said and mentioned three times in my speech: we would have liked to have looked at the implementation of the agreement we have made for a very, very large amount in the rate pool before we take a final position here in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111150446	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111150459	Thank you. As previous speakers have said, a number of things have been set in motion on these issues which we are discussing here in the Parliamentary Assembly during the motions for resolutions B 1 and B 6. What I will just say in this round is that I stress that we have strongly pointed out in the circle of pool parties that, according to section 109, paragraph 109, the municipalities. 7, provide initial and coordinating advice on housing, the economy, the labour market, day care and health, and that this should be done at the latest when relocation starts from a women's crisis centre until women and children have moved into their own homes. It is the defence effort which is very central and which we in the Radical Left will follow in terms of how it works. We know that the Minister for this area will point out to the municipalities that they must carry out the task laid down in the legislation. We are also setting up a national unit to follow the initiatives which, among other things, include: has been implemented through the Rate Pool Decisions, on systematic exchange of knowledge and experience between actors involved in violence in close relationships, and on legislation, practices and other offers to the target audience and information on tracing, etc. Therefore, we would like to wait to see what comes out of the experience-taking and dissemination efforts that the national unit has to work with, and there is no doubt that we can get some good ideas for this and improve the efforts on an ongoing basis. So we'd like to work on that. Like previous rapporteurs, I have a great deal of sympathy for the thinking of Enhedslisten's proposal B 6, but I think that it overlaps to some extent what we have agreed in the field of the pool of rates; so we would like to follow that. But of course we would like to save Enhedslisten's proposal, because it may be good to keep up with the experiences that are being done around and see what happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111150735	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it is Mrs Pernille Skipper who is the rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111150759	Now, of course, during the day, we have been discussing particularly violent women. I note that, of course, there are also men who suffer violence, but we are talking about many thousands of people who are subjected to domestic violence each year, many thousands of children who experience violence against themselves or their parents of both a mental and a physical nature. And one of the things that makes it even more terrible when you experience violence in families is that it not only affects the person it is hurting, the family it is hurting here and now, but that it puts many and deep marks in relation to the children's future and adulthood. And the risk of even becoming a violent person in adult life is significantly greater for children who grow up in homes like them. So for the people who suffer, for future generations, breaking a spiral of violence is important. It is also extremely important for our society, not only because we want to take care of each other as people and ensure that the society we create creates creates the best opportunities for you to live a happy life without violence, in short, but also because the socio-economic is not worth doing more to stop the spirals of violence. The national organisation of women's crisis centres estimates that it is about 95 million. kr. lost annually in the form of lost earnings due to violent women. We are losing millions and millions of dollars in the health care system, which is then spent on patching up the damage after the violence. The repetition of violence is an extremely important factor. It is so important to talk about how violence quickly turns into a spiral, both in the generations after, but also for the individual woman. For those women who take the step and pack their things and move to the shelter, for some in the middle of the night, without having their own things or the children's things with them, and leave in the hope that he will not find them, it is extremely difficult. A lot of women end up in violence again, even though they take that really, really hard step. I think it's about 10-15 percent. of those women who go to a shelter, who actually move directly back to the perpetrator. And one in three, who is at a shelter, will return to a shelter later. Compared with those who return, it is often women who are on cash aid, who are unemployed, who have a lower education; so there is a social economic battle in the violence, which we should also think about very much. What a defense then does in all technicalities, and what we can call it, is to help you establish your own life so that you do not end up in violence again. It is a matter of helping to find a home, helping to obtain a divorce, helping to avoid the catch 22 that is in that if you are married to a man, he is the dependent of you, which means that you cannot get cash benefits unless you are divorced from him. There are a lot of practical things. That's one part of a defense. The second part of a defense is to ensure that you get psychological assistance to handle what you have been through, either through a group or individually that you can process it, that you can learn to talk to your children about it, that you can learn to live with it, that you can move on with it. If you don't get that help, we risk getting there one more time. And that's why the women's crisis centres have been calling out for defense for years and we've been discussing this for years. The Enhedslisten included it in four different financial law negotiations under the S-R-SF government last time and was rejected every time. And now we stand here again and are told that it cannot be a right for violence-stricken women to have such a defence, because now we have set up a pool attempt. And I would really like to praise the wagering pool attempt; I think it is really fine. However, I think it is awful that one allows oneself to finance the rate pool by cutting the folk pension, in the cash aid that goes to some of the women affected by the violence. I think most of the rapporteurs in here know that very well. But I think the initiative itself is a good one. What I do not understand is how to reject it, with reference to the fact that you want to see if it works, that you want to see the results. Well, the results have so I don't understand that I have to admit that. I would urge you to visit the women's crisis centres and spend the next four years talking to them about all the experiences they have already made about defence, and to talk to them about why it is that they are shouting that it should be a right that is both permanent, so that they should not jump from tue to tue in relation to the economy, but also a right that you can lean on as a woman, so that you do not have to be unsure whether you can get this help or not. And here we can also find out why it is so important that action is anchored in the crisis centres. After all, it does not matter, as several rapporteurs have mentioned here. We have noted the date. We have already waited more than four years in the Enhedslisten to try to get this through. We're gonna keep going a little bit longer. And we've put a reminder on the calendar about when we're going to get back to it. I can't quite promise you won't get us out of this long, but we're gonna keep trying to convince you that this is a brilliant idea... not just to do it through the bet pool, but also to permanence it and make it a right in the Service Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111151509	I guess I'm gonna have to say that for philanthropic, I guess they're being considered a cheat word to be a little mild. I'm sorry. ) There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111151522	Sometimes I also think it is a little easier to be a member of the Enhedslisten: just table a lot of resolutions without funding and without wanting to help find any funding. I just want to hear: what is Enhedslisten's view today, in relation to what the barriers today are for the crisis centres, in cooperation with the municipalities, to ensure better post-protection efforts?
ParlaMint-DK_20161111151548	Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111151549	I don't understand that remark. The Enhedslisten would like to finance the defense efforts. That is why we have included it in four different financial laws. That is precisely to make sure that this is not something you climb into a pool of rates or, by the way, finance by cutting down on some of the people who have the most difficulty in our society. That is why we have included it in four different financial laws. Does the Danish People's Party have this in the Finance Act this year? Well, it can be a little easy to be a member of the Danish People's Party sometimes in that way. What we are hearing from the crisis centres is that it is really important that this is made permanent, that it becomes a right that you can rely on and, of course, that the money is there. This is what Dannerhuset has also written to the Danish People's Party both gender rapporteur and social rapporteur. And I mean, the letter came in yesterday's mailbox, so you might be able to read that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111151645	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111151646	Now the rapporteur is getting a little brazen, because of course I have read and also answered the question yesterday evening. If Enhedslisten has included this in the Finance Act, then Enhedslisten must also know how much it costs. The rapporteur said earlier that the calculations and such things were not known, but if the Enhedslisten has included this in the Finance Act in the past, then we must also know what it costs to complete a post-protection right.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111151713	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111151714	Well, we've been asking the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior if they'd be nice to count on it, but they didn't want to. But now some money has been set aside for the bet pool, and then we can see what is supposed to cost there. I don't get the point again. Of course it has to be financed. Nobody said anything else about that. The question is, and what is the disagreement is whether it is okay for us to finance it by cutting down on transfer income... cash benefits, public pension, early retirement... and I don't think it seems to the Danish People's Party perhaps, or whether we should find the funding somewhere else and make it permanent as a right.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111151753	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161111151807	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 15 November 2016, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website. Have a good weekend for everyone!
