ParlaMint-DK_20160316130003	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and Jonas Dahl (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 91 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the flexibility of the EU budget rules in relation to the additional costs incurred by EU Member States in dealing with the refugee crisis). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20160316130034	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 17 March 2016. Furthermore, I would point out that there is a time limit for the debate to take two hours, which means that there may not be room for all requests for short remarks in the course of the debate. We move on to the first speaker, and that is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party, for reasons of the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316130123	The re-priority contribution will go beyond the close well-being, says the municipalities. We want to hear the Government's response to the concerns raised by the National Association of Municipalities, among others. in connection with the KL summit last week. The municipalities are calling for recognition of the difficult situation in which the municipalities find themselves, and we hope that the government in the Finance Minister can deliver these clear answers today. At the Aalborg Summit last week, the President of the National Association of Municipalities, Martin Damm from the Left, called the priority contribution a downgrade contribution and said among other things.: The municipalities have made it more efficient for a huge amount of money, so if we are to deliver 2.4 billion to the state every year, we will not bypass real savings... it will be felt in the care of the elderly, the day care institutions and the schools if this requirement is maintained, and the Christiansborg parties must be targeted for that. As you know, the Prime Minister gave a speech in Aalborg, where he felt that neither the Minister for Finance nor the municipalities should wail. Many may not have understood that the Prime Minister actually asked the municipalities not to wail. It was pretty rhetorical, but that was the actual message. There was no dear mother, the municipalities must deliver 2.4 billion. kr. in 2017, rising to 7 billion. kr. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So it is reasonable that we should have clear answers today as to how the re-priority contribution should be used and, above all, how the savings should be found in the municipalities. We look forward to the Government's response to this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316130308	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Finance for the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316130324	The government wants a strong public sector with a high-quality citizen-friendly service. We give priority to a strong health sector in Denmark, and we prioritise proper offers to our elderly people who need help to cope with everyday life. That is also why, with the 2016 Finance Act, we have taken care of both health and the elderly. At the same time, we are in an economic situation where falling oil prices give the state less revenue from oil and gas extraction in the North Sea than expected. The last time we settled the fiscal room for manoeuvre towards 2020, it was about 15 billion. kr. The figures showed this in September. Since then, structural revenue from the North Sea has been downgraded by 5 billion. kr. That is why the room for manoeuvre will also be reduced from EUR 15 billion. kr. to 10 billion. If we look only at the effect of the lower oil price. Asylum influx also puts considerable pressure on public finances. For 2016 alone, 10.9 billion has been budgeted. kr. to the area of asylum and integration. If the influx increases in the coming years, the pressure on expenditure will increase by 2020. This increases the demands for strict priorities in expenditure policy in the future. In other words, we have a common challenge in developing our welfare societies at a time when the public financial framework will remain tight. In the coming years, we must gradually reduce the government deficit in order to achieve the target of balance by 2020. At the same time, the so far relaxed fiscal policy must be gradually rolled back so that it is aligned with the progress that we see in the Danish economy. That is why the whole public sector needs to contribute to the freeing up of resources so that we can give priority to citizen-centred welfare, so that we can spend the money where they do the most good for the Danes. For this reason, the government has considered it necessary and appropriate to extend the re-priority contribution to the municipalities. In the state we have had a re-priority contribution for many years. We have now spread this to all major State spending areas, including education and culture. Thus, a long-standing principle in force in the state has been extended to the municipalities. For the re-prioritisation contribution, a tool supporting the efficient use of resources is provided. At the same time, it strengthens the ability to prioritise across sectors, so that money is spent where it is most beneficial. This means that we will have the opportunity to prioritise important areas such as health, the elderly and security. In 2016, 1.9 billion. kr. of the re-prioritised contribution in 2016 returned to the municipalities for priority actions in the bourgeois service areas. In addition, there is the promise of 1 billion. kr. to a dignified care for the elderly with the 2016 Finance Act. Overall, therefore, the services of the municipalities have been increased by 0.5 billion. kr. From 2015 to 2016. The municipalities thus have more money for service in 2016, than they had in 2015. On the other hand, developments are under the leadership of the most recent social democratic governments, where the municipal service framework was reduced by several stages. Thus, the adjusted agreed municipal service framework was reduced by 3 billion. kr. From 2012 to 2015. It is therefore also strange that the Socialists are creating a picture that this government wants massive cuts in the public sector. On the contrary, with the re-priority contribution, the government wants to create the conditions for us to give priority to core welfare. The Prime Minister has also recently stated that the money from the re-priority contribution does not go to tax cuts. The government wants the money from the re-priority contribution to be spent on citizens' services and that the money is spent where the need is greatest in the year in question. The precise implementation of the funds will take place in the economic negotiations with the municipalities this summer and in the financial negotiations in the autumn. For 2017, the government is proposing that the money from the re-priority contribution be returned to the municipalities to priority areas, so if the parties in the red bloc want to influence the distribution of money, then they will have to participate constructively in the budget negotiations in the autumn, and I would urge them to do so. The re-priority contribution shall apply to the municipalities under one. It will therefore be up to each municipality to determine how the re-priority contribution is to be implemented locally. In 2017, too, efficiency improvements will be needed so that the funds returned can be used in priority areas. Of course, we should not sit here at Christiansborg and decide how the municipalities realise the necessary efficiency improvements. Some municipalities are expected to have better opportunities to adjust service costs than others and thus also better opportunities to realise a larger share of the re-priority contribution. It is based on dialogue between municipalities and local political priorities in each municipality. In this way, it is ensured that each municipality can organise the overall effort on the basis of what creates the greatest value locally. I think it is realistic that the municipalities can streamline by 1%. Every year? Yeah, I mean that. I have made that clear several times, even in a way that may have given ample attention. I do not buy the premise that there can be no more efficiency in the municipalities. The municipalities themselves also report that since 2007 they have gradually increased the efficiency of their work, so that in many municipalities the efficiency of their work is increased by 2%. of expenditure per year. The municipalities themselves have previously indicated that since 2011 they have increased the efficiency of between 2.4 and 3 billion. kr. a year. In addition, a recent survey of the country's municipal councillors shows that 90% of the population of the country is in the region. of them see the potential for efficiency in the municipalities. Then you ask me whether the re-priority contribution automatically leads to poorer care for the elderly and elementary schools, is the answer clearly no. I do not think so. The municipalities have a service framework of 240 billion. kr., and it should be possible to spend some of the money better than we do today, among other things. by learning from each other through digitisation, through multiple tasks of competition, etc. All parts of the public sector, state, regions and municipalities must continue to be considerably more efficient. Because, at a time of tight financial frameworks, it is absolutely essential that we continue to get more out of taxpayers' money. This is a prerequisite for us also to be able to afford a strong welfare society in the future. We cannot live with a public sector cast in concrete. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316131156	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. We shall move on to the debate. And the first rapporteur is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316131209	Thank you, President. We in the Social Democratic Party are opposed to the re-priority contribution. We were when the Budget Act was adopted in December 2015, and we therefore also tabled an amendment to the Budget Act together with the other parties behind this urgent request. It chose a majority in the Folketing including the Danish People's Party to vote against, which is why it is also fair to say that it is the responsibility of the bourgeois parties alone. Realities are such that there is a re-priority contribution that goes beyond the close welfare of 2017, 2018 and 2019. The re-prioritisation contribution gives the municipalities great frustration because of the great uncertainty about the budgets. Among other things: Claus Wistoft from the Left, mayor of the municipality of Syddjurs, says: "We municipalities can sit and make a budget right after the summer holiday, and then there will be a Finance Act in October, which may return some money to an area from which we have just cut them away. It's a crying process... From 2017, the municipalities will have to deliver a significant amount each year to the Minister of Finance, who can have it at their disposal: 2.4 billion. kr. in 2017, rising to 7 billion. kr. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The municipalities must therefore adopt their budgets long before the adoption of the Finance Act in November, and this creates great uncertainty among the municipalities. The budgetary uncertainty caused by the re-priority contribution is unsustainable, and the best solution is therefore to completely eliminate this way of working. Of course, we Social Democrats are not blind to the fact that in this Parliament there is a narrow majority in favour of the re-prioritisation contribution. Nor will there be a majority in favour of abolishing it altogether, unfortunately, and that is why we will at least demand that the money be fully returned to the municipalities in 2017, 2018 and 2019. That is why we have also tabled a motion for a resolution on this very subject. It will be dealt with at a later stage here in the Folketing as motion for a resolution No. B 89. That is why, of course, we will come back to this debate at a later stage. However, I should just like to mention that we hope, of course, that the Danish People's Party will live up to the indications they have given themselves on the wording of the resolution, and that will of course include voting in favour of it. I am, of course, listening very well to the statement by the Minister for Finance on what is at stake. However, I must at least challenge a few points raised by the Minister of Finance. Among other things: the fact that the re-priority contribution itself should support the efficient use of resources, because, as we have just established from the mayor of the municipality of Southdjur, there is a built-in molbo effect in that it takes money first and then takes it back. It's a difficult exercise. That is why, I think, we have to ask the question whether the resources are now being used effectively by bringing money back and forth. I also heard the Minister of Finance signal that, if you want to share in the redistribution of the re-priority contribution, you must participate in financial law negotiations. It almost sounds as if the Social Democrats had sidelined themselves and did not want to participate in the last budget debate. I don't recognize that picture at all. On the contrary, we were not given the opportunity to participate. We can certainly have a closer and interesting debate on this when there will be an opportunity to ask the Minister for Finance questions. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, Enhedslisten, Radical Left, Alternative and SF, I shall make the following proposals for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament considers that the Government's attempt to provide room for financial law negotiations by means of pre-budgeting non-agreed municipal savings expresses a lack of respect for the contract system, in which the municipal economy is determined through negotiations between the municipalities and the government. The Government is required to cancel the 2017 priority contribution before the conclusion of the next municipality agreement. • V 34).
ParlaMint-DK_20160316131702	Thank you. The proposed proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. Then there are a number of brief comments, and the first one comes from Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316131712	When the Social Democrats last had the government power until the summer of 2015, the SR government cut from 2012 to 2015 approx. 3 billion kr. of the service framework. I would like to ask the Socialist rapporteur whether it has led to extremely poor conditions in the municipalities, whether this has led to catastrophic conditions, or whether it is only natural, of course, to make the local authorities more efficient. Did the municipalities experience tremendously small times while the Social Democratic-led government sat?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316131749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316131750	The municipalities, like all other parts of society, have experienced that we have been through a major crisis, which we are fortunately on our way out of. It must also be said that the municipalities have been very skilled in making a number of efficiency improvements within the framework and opportunities and the tools available to them. They will, of course, be doing so now, and I think it would be appropriate for Conservatives too to recognise that, even without a re-priority contribution, the municipalities will have to make their operations more efficient. It does skilled municipal politicians across the country every day.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316131827	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316131828	I do not think there will be an answer to the question that I am addressing to the Socialist rapporteur. What is proposed with a re-priority contribution of 1% is an increase in efficiency of 2.4 billion. kr. During the last three years, under the leadership of the Social Democratic Government, there was a 3 billion drop in the service framework. kr. Now it is being shouted and shouted that it means disastrous conditions for the municipalities if they are to have a change of priority contribution of 1%, but 3 billion were saved. kr. From 2012 to 2015, when there was last a Social Democratic government. Was it a disaster? Was that a huge problem? Did the huge social divide in Danish society mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316131905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316131906	On the contrary, I answered the question quite clearly. It may well be that the rapporteur of the Conservatives does not want to hear the answer, namely that we have made the municipalities more efficient. This has not least been done at a time when the municipalities, like the rest of society, have been going through a serious crisis. The municipalities have made efficiency improvements with the tools that have been made available to them. The re-prioritisation contribution does not provide any tools for the municipalities, and in parallel with the municipalities having to contribute to a re-prioritisation contribution, they also have to make efficiency improvements. I think it is a pity that it is not recognised by the conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316131945	The next question is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316131949	After all, it is not much more than six months since we had parliamentary elections, and the Social Democrats went to the polls on a programme that included an increase in efficiency in the public sector of 12 billion. kr. Towards 2020. None of the 12 billion. kr. I should be aware of the fact that it comes from the health services, that is to say the regions, so that it distributes the 12 billion. kr. in the municipalities and the state. - Sir... Benny Engelbrecht explains the proportion of 12 billion. kr., which the Social Democrats wanted to save and streamline in the public sector, which should come from the municipalities for use by the Treasury?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316132024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316132026	The whole point of allowing municipalities to be able to streamline is, of course, to provide them with real tools at the same time and, in addition, to enable them to solve a number of the challenges they face themselves. The municipalities do that, and the municipalities do that every day. They need to make their operations more efficient in order to meet demographic trends, which means, for example, that they must: in some municipalities need to have more schools because more children are coming to school, while other municipalities are getting more older, etc. It is demographic development that is constantly taking place. That's why you always have to make tools available to the municipalities so they can make these efficiency improvements. So making efficiency targets is an excellent tool, while it is a completely different method to seize the money in advance and put it into the Finance Minister's pocket, where they may later come back to the municipalities. That is the difference between the use of the method and method.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316132124	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316132125	After all, the Socialists wanted to seize 12 billion. kr. distributed by state and municipalities for use at the Social Democrats' 2020 level. Then the only question is: how many out of the 12 billion? kr. should come from the municipalities via efficiency improvements in the municipalities? After all, it is not the case that the Socialists have the principle that all gains from efficiency in the municipalities must remain in the municipalities. The Social Democrats themselves had the principle that the municipalities should contribute to 12 billion. kr. in the Treasury, which the Social Democrats could use.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316132159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316132159-2	I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Ole Birk Olesen has also read the plan and has seen that exactly overall funds would be provided to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316132208	The next question is Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316132211	We have heard that before, that is to say that it has been promised that funds would be allocated to the municipalities as a whole. But what happened under the former SR government was, of course, as Mr. Brian Mikkelsen pointed out in his speech, and as the Minister for Finance also pointed out, that the service envelope of 3 billion was cut. kr. in the years 2012-2015, and in the policy that was followed, we could say that there was also some sort of re-prioritisation, where you among other things. came with a pool that municipalities could apply to educators or whatever it might be. So I have to ask: why is it so much different from what we are doing now, that is, that we say that we should get some funds for a re-prioritisation, which we saw in return, as we did, for example. has also done so in the context of the Finance Act, investing in health care and in municipal care for the elderly? Why is what we are doing now so much different and much more terrible than what we did when we were sitting in power ourselves, where we went in and cut some money 3 billion? kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316132308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316132309	First of all, I still lack a recognition from the bourgeois wing in this Parliament of the serious concerns of the municipalities, in that, at a time when Denmark has been in crisis, and when everyone has been aware that there had to be a crisis awareness, they have made efficiency improvements, and they have turned every penny, but also that they are now in a situation where, if a re-priority contribution is made, which is added to the efficiency that they must already make in the municipalities, it cannot be done without it being quite serious. This isn't something I'm making up, but it's kind of an argument that comes from the chairman of the National Association of Municipalities, sir. Jacob Jensen's party colleague, and I suppose that is the case in Mr Jensen's report. Jacob Jensen's party then also agrees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316132408	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316132409	Well, we always listen to good powers, including good Left, that's the way it is. But maybe I'll ask you a little differently. Benny Engelbrecht actually knows at this stage what the financial framework for the municipalities will be in 2017? I understand that there is now a concern that there should then be less money and that this is therefore a policy which should then take account of the policy pursued by the Socialists themselves, which cut down on the financial service framework for the municipalities, but from where Mr. Benny Engelbrecht that there will be a smaller service framework for the municipalities in 2017? For it can be said that in 2016 there will also be a re-prioritisation contribution. But there is, of course, no less a service framework, including the re-priority contribution, because there is a positive service framework of 0.5 billion. kr. to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316132452	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316132453	The whole point is that in the municipalities they are not among them. I noted that the chairman of the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Anders Samuelsen, at the summit, felt that this re-priority contribution should actually be doubled. One can understand that there may be a concern in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316132528	Thank you. There's room for two more inquirers, and the first one is Mr. Cole. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316132535	Thank you. This is of course an interesting debate in the light of the fact that we have had a social democratic government that has cut down on the municipalities. Now we have a time when we have a plus in 2016 and we have heard the Minister of Finance say that the money will be returned to 2017, and the Socialists are opposed to the re-priority contribution. And there I would like a clear answer from the rapporteur to the question: if it should happen at some point that the Socialists were again to sit on government power, will you abolish or continue the re-priority contribution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316132611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316132612	If the economic conditions are as they are today, then there is certainly no reason to have a re-priority contribution, then my assessment is. But it must also be said that with the uncertainty created about the economy of the municipalities I hear what Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl says, and I understand that you also have the personal interest, I know that you are also a member of the municipal council, there are no guarantees and no guarantees for what happens next in 2018 and 2019. And that's where I'd like to hear Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl's confirmation that there is thus also an uncertainty in the following years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316132654	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316132655	It was a rather interesting speech, that is, if the conditions are one thing, or if the conditions are the other, then one will do one thing or the other. Is it to be understood that if the situation is in favour of it, then the Socialists will continue the re-priority contribution, so it is a tool that will be used a little on and off? I would also like to know whether this also means that, insofar as the government is now making an agreement with the KL to continue the re-prioritisation contribution for 2017, the Socialists will vote against the agreement that might come there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316132733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316132734	In other words, it is almost impossible to predict what the current government can do to squirt out tax relief on the right and left, and not least what the Danish People's Party is prepared to vote on. I do not think there were many in the general public who had foreseen that the Danish People's Party would be so willing to vote for tax relief for the most prosperous in this society. That is why none of us can foresee the day when we have to find ourselves in a situation in which the Social Democratic Party takes over the power of government, how much has changed in the meantime in a negative direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316132812	The last question in this round is Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316132815	I don't want to go into the last one. I'm gonna get on the platform at some point. But what's interesting is that sir... Benny Engelbrecht started by saying that the Socialists were against a re-prioritisation contribution, but the rapporteur now answers: yes, that is the way it is. On 9 March, and this was just last week, it was the party chairman, not the rapporteur, who was out to say 'and now I quote Mrs Mette Frederiksen: 'Therefore, I can also guarantee that we will not spend money from the existing re-priority contribution for purposes outside the municipalities, the day we should have a majority again. • What exactly is the Socialist President saying there? There she says that you want to get the money in, but you want to make sure that they come back to the municipalities as well. In fact, this is also the position taken by the Danish People's Party on the re-priority contribution. And that's where I'm gonna ask Mr. Kim. Benny Engelbrecht, about Mr. Benny Engelbrecht can confirm that the Social Democratic Party is, of course, behind its own president.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316132914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316132915	If sir... René Christensen had heard what I said in my rapporteur's speech, he would have heard that I said that we are against the re-priority contribution, but that we also recognise that in this Parliament there is unfortunately a majority in favour of it. It is clear that in a situation where we can then ensure that money is returned to the municipalities in full, we must discuss it, and it might well be an agreement that reached a period of government on the other side of an election. It is perfectly possible for us to decide what the Danish People's Party and other parties in this Parliament are ready to conclude agreements. But in the best situation, there would be a majority in this Parliament who did not do this very bureaucratic, administratively cumbersome exercise.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316133000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316133001	It is not to be polemical, but I would like to say that we actually believe that something really good can be gained from the re-prioritisation contribution, and we would also like to cooperate with the Social Democrats on this. But when Mette Frederiksen ends by saying that on the day we should have the majority again, that means that the majority will have changed. Then it will be a red majority who will be present, and there the chairman of the Social Democratic Party says that if the money goes back to the municipalities, it will still want to stick to a re-priority contribution. The Danish People's Party says that we can have a more equal Denmark, that we can get more municipalities out of the situation in which they find themselves, where they are difficult or otherwise. We take a very positive view of this, and I would just like to ask the rapporteur again: does the Social Democrats and the rapporteur not agree with the chairman of the Social Democratic Party about the statement she has made?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316133044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316133045	But that presupposes that we know which agreements we are, if any, part of this Parliament and how long they may reach. You can, in principle, reach a change of government and believe me, we are very prepared to take over government if it is expressed in need. I also understand that the party which is currently in government is ready to consider who, if so, will take over the presidency and such things. I don't want to get involved in that. But I would certainly say that it should not be what prevents us from entering into negotiations in this Assembly, even with the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316133121	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the series of rapporteurs. The next one is sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316133132	Thank you, President. Yes, we will then have the opportunity to discuss the re-prioritisation contribution here too in the Parliamentary Chamber. In fact, we welcome this from the Danish People's Party. We think this is an important agenda and, of course, there may be different political approaches to what a re-prioritisation contribution can do. What is of course also interesting is that today we also get a clearer picture of where Denmark's largest party is actually standing at the Social Democratic Party, even though we in here at Christiansborg are good at knowing what is spin and what else, and how to navigate it. People may sometimes have been put in a bit of a checkmate in relation to it. However, I would like to be honest and say that it is not to be polemical here from Parliament's platform that I find it difficult to see what position the Social Democratic Party has taken. Because when you hear what the chairman of the Social Democratic Party says, and that is only a week ago, she said so, it is very clear that a re-priority contribution is accepted on the assumption that it goes back to the municipalities, so that the municipalities should not experience that there will be minus growth because of a re-priority contribution. The Danish People's Party wants to participate in this agenda. At the same time, I have had an experience of taking part in the debate with rapporteur Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil from the Social Democratic Party, who clearly said on television that yes, you would like to sit at the table, and indeed you also agreed that the money should not go back to crowns, but that they could also cross municipal boundaries. It was therefore again a discussion on how to get a more equal Denmark. I think that is a constructive way for the Social Democratic Party to enter the debate, so come around the table and say: Yes, there is a re-priority contribution • how can we use it as best we can, when we can get welfare throughout Denmark, get a more equal Denmark? A motion for a resolution has also been tabled, which actually refers to the fact that the money must be returned to the municipalities. Of course, when you take the view that the money should be returned, you also agree with the source of funding. So I hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss this today: where do we really stand? For then there is a broad majority in the Danish Parliament behind a change of priority contribution, and then we in the Danish People's Party hope that we can also find a majority in the broad majority which says that these funds should go back to the municipalities. We are also ready to go in and take political responsibility and say: This one percent of the municipalities' finances is one percent ready to say that we want to be a priority; the 99 percent. is located in the municipalities, is located in the municipal councils. We would like to help earmark some of this money when it is sent back to the municipalities. We would like to help earmark some money so that they go to some of the municipalities that are today having a real difficulty in being financially self-sustaining. What does that mean? Very many municipalities have a poor tax base because their unemployment is too high and their population composition makes it difficult to give what we call daily welfare, that is to say to have proper standards in the day institutions and to have a primary school that is in order. It is a vicious circle they enter, because if you have a poor primary school, you also have a low grade average, and then you have people who come out after 9 years in primary school and do not know what two plus two are and who cannot start an education. Those municipalities are having a really hard time. There you can use the re-priority contribution to say: how can the municipalities become more self-reliant so that they can get out of the vicious circle? We are going to have that discussion with all parties. We would like to take it across colors and other things, because we think it is important. It's real politics that can move something out there. And we're talking about 1%. of the municipal economy, which in the long run can really help to move something. There, of course, we welcome the fact that we have an urgent request and we welcome the fact that there are motions for resolutions, because we think it is pointing in that direction. That is why, of course, we are looking forward to today's debate. Then, on behalf of the Left and the Danish People's Party, I would like to make the following proposals for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament states that in 2017 released funds as a result of the municipal re-priority contribution should be used to ensure core welfare in the municipalities. The funds must therefore be given priority where the need is greatest. The actual implementation takes place in the context of the negotiations on the local economy and the financial law negotiations. • V 35).
ParlaMint-DK_20160316133606	Thank you. And the proposed proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. There are a number of brief comments, and the first one comes from Mr Seligman. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316133614	Thank you to the President and thank the rapporteur for his comments. First of all, can the rapporteur not say whether the re-priority contribution, the one percent, means that the municipalities are then completely exempt from the fact that they are more efficient in their ordinary operation? I know, sir. René Christensen himself, by the way, is an experienced municipal politician, so of course I expect you to be able to answer that question. In other words, is it completely exempt from having to be more efficient? That is one question. The second question is: what concrete tools will be put at the disposal of the municipalities so that they can actually find these 2.4 billion? kr. in concrete efficiency improvements? Because I assume that it is recognised that the municipalities also have to have the tools to implement these efficiency improvements.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316133713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316133714	First of all, we in the Danish People's Party recognise that even if you say 1%. And it doesn't sound like much, obviously this isn't something they can just do out there like that. 2.4 billion kr. Of course, 98 municipalities are faced with a task. We also acknowledge that we hope it of course, and we know it happens out there • that the municipalities work every day on how they get the most for their money, how they get the most welfare, how they get the most education, how they get the most for it out there. After all, it is a wheel that runs around all the time, regardless of whether there is a change of priority contribution or something else. What we are just saying is that when there is no possibility of making a compensation reform and that is what was actually wanted by the Danish People's Party we actually believe that the re-priority contribution can be a very good contribution to it. We recognise that this is a task facing the municipalities. We're not gonna tell the municipalities that this is just super easy, but it's gonna be possible to make a change of priority of 1%. out there in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316133808	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316133809	Thank you for recognising that the municipalities are actually making improvements in efficiency and that, in addition to the re-priority contribution that a narrow majority in this Parliament imposes on them, they need to make further improvements in efficiency in order to make the operation work optimally. I think there are many municipalities and local politicians who are happy to receive that recognition. However, I also have to ask about the proposal for adoption. It's all about 2017, but what does Dansk Folkeparti think is going to happen in 2018 and 2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316133846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316133846-2	That is where we imagine the same thing to happen. But it is the case that the municipalities' finances are fixed for 1 year at a time, as the questioner knows. Of course, we stick to that in the way we work. It is the case that KL comes with 98 municipalities in the back with their mandate and negotiates, and in that case it is with Minister Claus Hjort Frederiksen. And if it had been another finance minister, it would also have been the setup that was. It's for one year at a time. And, of course, we fully recognise that system of agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316133914	The next question is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316133919	The proposal for adoption, which the rapporteur has just made, states: "The Danish Parliament states that, as a result of the municipal re-prioritisation contribution, funds released in 2017 should be used to ensure the core welfare...·. I do not know if the rapporteur could do a little more about it, so go into a little more detail on what should be covered in this context. Does this proposal for adoption mean that money from the re-priority contribution can be used for tax cuts in the autumn and that only a proportion of the re-priority contribution could then be returned to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316133957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316133958	No, it doesn't. That is why it is also important that it is the Left and the Danish People's Party that have tabled this. And that's why it's quite interesting what's going to happen on those chairs over here when we're going to vote on it tomorrow. For now there is actually an opportunity for cementing, not how that we will be very happy if that is what it can end up with tomorrow when we have to vote down here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316134023	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316134024	So when it says "should" in the proposal for adoption, it should in fact be understood as "must." Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316134034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316134034-2	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316134039	The next question in the line is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316134041	Thank you. The Danish People's Party wants this to look like it's a Robin Hood exercise, but it does cover the fact that savings are being made in the municipalities. And when you look at what has actually happened this year, when the Danish People's Party has said that it is now going to the elderly, what have some municipalities benefited from it? That is, for example, the case. Frederiksberg Municipality. Is it a dignified needy municipality? And what about the municipalities where you first had to save 1%? and then happen not to have as many older people, but where you are a poor municipality? There you don't get the benefit of the re-priority contribution, as the Danish People's Party thinks. Therefore, this simple question: instead of the financial law negotiations, which are far too late for the municipalities to be able to really benefit from the money, and where it is such a little coincidence, depending on who sits a late night hour for the Danish People's Party together with the Finance Minister and distributes the money that the municipalities have saved, would it not be much better if at least one were to negotiate it here in the municipal agreements, so that the municipalities had a say in what the money would be used for?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316134142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316134143	Yes, but if you listen and now it comes around in print in a little while, it was actually said that it should be in connection with the municipality agreements and the Finance Act. The reason why this is so is, of course, that we in the Folketing do not actually have a mandate in the municipal negotiations. It is the government currently in office there at all times. If there are some things you want to change, it's just going on somewhere else. And that is in the context of the financial law negotiations. Then I would also like to respond to the Frederiksberg model. What was done with the dignity billionaire was to say that the money follows the elderly, in other words that it did not come out via the block subsidy. If it had come out through the block grant, I can promise that it would have been even more wrong. It is important for us that it comes out where the elderly are, and therefore it is the demography that decides it. We can then rejoice that it will continue to do so, even after 2018. The dignity billion is not passed over to the block subsidy, and we are very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316134239	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316134240	Should I understand that if the Danish People's Party's proposal for adoption should go and be adopted, and if the municipalities, when negotiating the municipality agreement, stand firm that every single crown that has been taken out as a priority contribution, should be distributed in the municipality agreement, so that the municipalities can budget it and participate in it, then the Danish People's Party will respect it and of course not start to fiddle with it in the Finance Act negotiations so that it should be done first and foremost in the municipal agreements and that the money that the municipalities have saved will also influence the municipalities on what should be used for?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316134314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316134315	Well, you shouldn't ask the Danish People's Party about that. I mean, we're not sitting at the table in the municipal negotiations. It is the municipalities that sit there with their mandate from 98 municipalities, and then there is the Minister of Finance who sits there at all times with the government in his back. And then you make a municipal deal at the time. That is how it will be under the present government, and that is how it will be under the next government, and that is how it was under the previous government. And we support the good contractual system there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316134341	The next question is Mr. Jonas Dahl, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316134345	I still find it a little difficult to understand why the Danish People's Party has so much to say about this change of priority contribution. I would call it a down-priority contribution, because it is basically about not having confidence that the municipalities are able to prioritize the funds and transfer them to the places where they are most needed. Is it just where the Danish People's Party, like now, also confesses the colour and says: We do not have confidence in the management of the country's municipalities? Isn't that what's behind a down-priority contribution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316134411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316134411-2	No, actually, it's not. But what is at stake is that we do not have confidence that KL can at any time work out a municipal compensation reform because KL represents all 98 municipalities. This is a very difficult task, because there will be some who will have to pay the bill. Here too, there is the re-priority contribution if it is going to go as we would like. We would like all municipalities to join, but there are some municipalities that do not get the money back to crowns, because then no one can be helped out of the challenges they face. We must also say, unfortunately, that we have seen in the past, under changing governments, that there have been pools in the area of the elderly, children and so on, and then you can see that the money in very many municipalities has gone into one end and then has gone out to another end. That's why we're not so nervous about going in and saying that we're taking 1%. There we take the political responsibility on our shoulders and say that we want to be a priority in some boxes so that they can help raise welfare throughout Denmark. It is quite true that we would like to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316134511	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316134512	It just sounds infinitely hollow when we see what has actually happened with the downgrade contribution that was adopted in the autumn. Then the Danish People's Party will argue that there was a dignified billion, and the rapporteur has just said that we want a redistribution from the richest to the poorest municipalities. That is what the rapporteur said. That is not what has happened, we can see when we look at the dignity billionaire. It has just gone to the richest municipalities. This has merely reinforced the effect of richer municipalities, while the poorest municipalities have become poorer with the down-priority contribution. So it emphasizes that what the Danish People's Party is saying is completely hollow talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316134545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316134546	No. That is simply what is so unfortunate when we have these political discussions, because it is simply untrue. It is not the case that it is the richest municipalities that have profited from dignity billionaires. This is actually how you can see, when you look at the demography, that there are a great many provincial municipalities where the elderly actually live and where they now get a huge boost in the care of the elderly. It is also the case that the dignity billionaire has a different purpose, namely that all municipalities must now also discuss what is worthy, what is a dignified life for the elderly, and that they must make a policy of dignity. This is very positive and must be done in all 98 municipalities. We are so proud of our dignity billionaires, and we remain so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316134628	We thank the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party and move on to the next rapporteur in line. It's sir. Jacob Jensen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316134645	Thank you. We have to give priority to all of life's relationships. We must, of course, do so in the political sphere too, which is why it is a little strange that it is precisely the red wing that is now raising this question debate, since, as we have heard from the Minister for Finance, we have seen that under the former SR government, supported by the red parties, we were just out in an exercise called the cutting of 3 billion. kr. in the period 2012-2015 in the municipal service framework. It was no coincidence that, before the parliamentary elections here last year, we saw that there were advertisements from all the mayors of the Left, with a desire to be able to get up to zero growth or to stop spending. One can say that this wish has been fulfilled, plus that we have actually added 500 million, so the overall service framework for the municipalities in 2016 has now increased by half a billion. So while there were others who went out before a parliamentary election and promised more money I even think it was the former SF chairman Mr. Villy Søvndal, who was out very concrete and laws specific millions of dollars per year. The municipality then took the money instead. We promised to stop spending. I'm sorry we couldn't live up to that. We have then given more money, i.e. half a billion, in 2016. Now we have to face criticism. It's almost unbelievable. However, I would also like to acknowledge and stress here the great task and the great effort that the municipalities are working on and the challenges that they have, of course, and which all of us who work in the political field have. Because, as I see it, we should not look at boxes for boxes, we should see the public sector under one as a single unit. But it provokes me in return, when you hear a mayor from this town who, like, is at the forefront of opposition to the re-priority contribution, and when you can see in the same municipality that you are investing money in ski slopes and architect-signed recycling sites. Over 100 million kr. You spend on safeguarding the municipality's cultural heritage, and in general you have an administration where, if you compare the costs of administration in the City of Copenhagen per year. people with what you use in Aarhus, for example, would actually be able to get 1⁄2 billion. kr. in savings. And I don't suppose the municipality of Aarhus is so badly administered. So could we not just start in those areas instead of necessarily starting out in kindergartens and schools and in other core welfare areas? Or, for that matter, when Aarhus Municipality invests in billion-dollar cultural projects, probably at the most expensive addresses of the municipality, which in the mayor's own words is a great project, it is probably also a project.Of course, one can question whether it is really core welfare when at the same time asking for money for schools, for older centres, kindergartens, etc. Of course there must be proportion to things, but the examples just illustrate the point that there is of course something more important than other things, not least at a time when we have scarce resources. It seems to me that it is not as interesting to take the starting point of such a crown and ear-discussion as we always have the habit of doing in here. I think it would be better to start a discussion on what it really is that we get out of the money that we scratch into taxes, where it is actually that the public service is good, where the public sector is well-functioning and provides high services, good quality, and then let others learn from it so that we can get the most out of the funds. I think that most people who pay the bill, as you know, it is not the taxpayer who cares so much whether they pay to one box rather than the other. I think they are interested in how much they pay, and at the same time I also believe that the people who use the public welfare service are less interested in knowing whether the service comes exactly from the municipal or regional or state sector, but you are of course interested in what quality it is that lies in the service. And that is why our policy is going on two legs: investment in core welfare services, which we saw with the Finance Act with investments in health and the elderly, and also investment in that it should pay better to invest, create jobs and jobs in Denmark, so that more people can get to work. This is the position we took before the elections... it is clear from our government programme that came after the elections... and that is still our position now. Then you can discuss what the process should be to achieve the goal. This is not so crucial for us. We are fully behind the policy being pursued, including the re-prioritisation contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135115	Thank you. We shall now proceed to brief remarks. The first one's from sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135122	You'd almost think when you hear Mr. Knox... Jacob Jensen, that it is a major social democratic plot that the Danish municipalities are opposed to a re-priority contribution. Now I have read Momentum, which has been published by the municipalities, and which one must say at least does not put a finger on the study carried out among the mayors, where 93 per cent. of them responds to the fact that the re-prioritisation contribution will affect all areas. I know, sir. Jacob Jensen is an excellent talent and is therefore also able to calculate, including the main bill, so I would just like to ask Mr. Jacob Jensen confirms that it is a very large proportion of the elected mayors of the Left who are also opposed to the re-priority contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135221	I can clearly confirm that, but I can also note that in the recent survey which was also carried out here, 90% could be achieved. I would say that it would also be strange if you sat as mayor and were asked whether you wanted to keep some more money, or if you thought that it was okay, that you were taken away, that you were not inclined to reply, that it would probably be easier to keep the money yourself. I think so. But the concern that is being expressed still puzzles me when you think of the policy that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht's government here until more than six months ago stood for where they went in de facto and cut year after year in the service framework. Then a redistribution was made, a pool arrangement was made. They did not have a problem with that at the time, it was quite all right, it was almost responsible, but now that we are making a redistribution, where funds are actually being allocated to the municipalities, it is absolutely terrible. I don't understand that logic.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135324	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135328	Thank you for confirming that there is very great opposition among the mayors of the Left in relation to the re-priority contribution. Will Mr. Jacob Jensen, like Mr. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party confirms that even when they are assigned a re-priority contribution, the municipalities also have to make efficiency improvements in order to make their operations work optimally, so that, even if they do not have a re-priority contribution, they will still have to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135400	There we are fortunate enough that we have municipal autonomy, and that is precisely where we are responsible for the framework that was agreed upon. KL represents the municipalities and the government is on the other side. That framework is agreed every year, and within that framework we can then prioritise, streamline, re-prioritize, we can call it many things. So it is, of course, a perfectly natural part of running a municipality, that one should of course do so, and that is why I just mentioned a few examples, but I could mention many other examples at the more curious end. And I just note that if one really wanted to give priority to core welfare, one might consider it when, for example, in Gladsaxe and Lejre municipalities, chickens and chicken houses are made available to citizens, so that they can see whether life with chicken teams is something for them. Perhaps it would be worth considering whether we should not take action there just to take a curious example.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135445	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135451	I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the wording of the proposal for adoption, which the Left is also behind, namely that the municipal re-priority contribution should be used to ensure the core welfare of the municipalities. Should this be understood as a shell, as we heard the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party present it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135507	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135509	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135512	At least we got confirmation. So I think I will ask: what has happened in the last 14 days? Because when I was down here in the Parliamentary Chamber 14 days ago with the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Finance told me and the others who were in the Chamber at that time that the re-priority contribution was to be used for priority areas, including tax relief, but that is no longer the case. It will only be used to be taken back to the municipalities. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135541	Yeah, that's how it's supposed to be understood.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135543	The next question is Mr. Jonas Dahl, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135548	It is interesting, then, that we now have a vision of the matter, so to speak, and it is also interesting that there is apparently so much disagreement in the blue block, in relation to whether to take the money back to the municipalities in 2017. This is something that the Danish People's Party and the Left support, but it seems that Conservatives and Liberal Alliance do not support this. That's very interesting. But what has happened in the last 14 days? Fourteen days ago, the money from the re-prioritisation contribution, the downgrading contribution, was to be used for tax cuts. What has happened since they are now to be used in the municipalities? I welcome the turnaround, but it is a relatively large turn that has happened in the Left in 14 days.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135625-2	It can be said, as I said in my speech, that what we voted for is a two-legged policy. Firstly, we want to create scope for investing in the core welfare areas. This is also clear from the text of the adoption here; it is the core welfare that must be given priority. Secondly, we will also create room for the better to invest and create jobs in Denmark through lower taxes and charges. It is a policy we had before the elections, it is clear from our government programme, and it is a policy that we are still standing by. Then today we are discussing the re-priority contribution, and there is the announcement that, with the adoption text here, the money coming from the re-priority contribution can then go to investments in the core welfare of the municipal sector. I do not see this as contrary to what we chose before, when we promised to invest in nuclear welfare. We invest in core welfare, we did so with the Finance Act, and we do so with the re-priority contribution in 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135725	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135728	From the SF we welcome the U-turn that has now taken place. Then I'd like to ask you something else. We heard from Dansk Folkeparti earlier this day that this should also increase the compensation. Can the rapporteur confirm that, overall, Rudersdal, Hørsholm, Gentofte, Lyngby-Taarbæk and Allerød municipalities are going to have billions of dignity billions, where the money comes from the re-prioritisation contribution than had been obtained by an ordinary compensation where the block grant we know today had been followed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135757	I do not think that the municipalities would get more billions, because it is only one billion that we set aside for the elderly, after all, extraordinary. But I kind of share Mr. René Christensen's point of view is far away from the fact that it is important that we create better opportunities for municipalities in those regions of the country where there are difficult conditions. That is why it is precisely because this cannot just stand alone; it also means that we have relaxed the law of plans, we have relocated state jobs, we have created an agricultural package, all of which include. with the aim of creating better opportunities for the municipalities, as everything else equally has more difficulty in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135831	The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135834	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur spoke earlier about local self-government, and the alternative is very much in favour of this, and that is also why the alternative is very much against this re-prioritisation contribution. Some money is being taken, and then they may be taken back. I am also very pleased, of course, that this proposal for adoption has now been put forward, among others. Left, who says that the money at least in 2017 should go back. But I would really like to hear from the rapporteur about the whole structure of the re-priority contribution: does it not really help to hamper local self-government?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316135915	I think that, if you put on the positive hat, you can say that it can help to strengthen local self-government, because this does not change at all the fact that it is extremely important in municipal self-government, in the municipalities, to work with things every day and to give priority to hard work. Some of it was of course at the curious end, but now I mentioned the administrative costs in the City of Copenhagen compared to the City of Aarhus. There is a difference of 0.5 billion. kr., if you figure it out per. citizen. Still, that's something to come for. That does not change the priority contribution, perhaps quite the contrary. This raises the challenge and the effort to make things work together. Of course it does. However, when we see here too that the funds collected through the re-prioritisation contribution go back, as it has done for 2016, where it has not only been recovered, but actually received EUR 0.5 billion. kr. I think that the concern, perhaps not from Mrs Josephine Fock's side, but from others, is a little exaggerated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316140016	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316140019	I can understand what the rapporteur is saying. From my point of view, it is just that the fact that you get money taken into the budgets, which you have to count into the budgets, you have to budget with it and then maybe get it back leaves a degree of uncertainty in the municipalities, which I do not think prioritises self-government. What I would like to ask in my second question is: is there now agreement that the money should ensure the core welfare of the municipalities, but does this mean that we in this Parliament must now define what core welfare is? What is core welfare in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316140057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316140058	I do not quite understand the uncertainty, because it is quite natural and recurring mechanics that every year before the summer holidays a municipal agreement and an economic agreement are negotiated with the government in office at all times, and according to this, the municipalities are budgeting in the autumn. That is what will be done in the future. We have done this for this year, in other words 2016, where we also have the re-priority contribution. However, in relation to the question of core welfare, it is for me the children's area, the school area and the elderly area. These are the three core areas that I would at least say it is if I were to try to define it, but of course it is a difficult size. But that's probably where I'm gonna start.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316140136	The last question in this round will be Mr. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316140140	Thank you. I have been taking note of the views expressed by the rapporteur for the ruling party, the Left. It is always interesting to know what a government party has of opinions. When I sit and listen to mr. Jacob Jensen, it is because I was standing with Mr. Jacob Jensen, rapporteur, in a television study in the debate on DR 2. It was November 12th. On a very clear question from the student host Clement Kjærsgaard about whether the money from savings in the municipalities can go to lowering the tax, the answer was quite clear. It was also great news in all the media. The clear answer was: Yes, some of them. That was the policy we had then. Is it true that the Left now has a different policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316140228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316140229	We have the policy that I have tried to outline. Our policy is on two legs: we want to be able to invest in core welfare areas such as health, the area of the elderly, we have done so with the Finance Act and, at the same time as the other leg, we want to invest in making it easier, better, easier to invest in creating jobs in Denmark through lower taxes and taxes. That is the objective. That is the aim of our policy. How the process is, sir. Magnus Heunicke of course well botanize much in, but the process is not so crucial to me. What matters to me is that we reach the target. I'm counting on it to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316140301	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316140304	One might call it botanizing to care whether it is a party's policy to take money from the municipal core welfare. The rapporteur listed just before what he thinks it is, and I thought it sounded very sensible and good. If you want to take money from nuclear welfare and spend it on tax cuts, what the rapporteur himself said he would do, and all the ministers with the Prime Minister in the lead have said before that they want it, it is quite different now. It's so 2017 it's all about today. What, then, is the policy of the Left when it comes to 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316140332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316140333	This will be considered in the context of the annual municipal agreements. But I just want to say that when Mr. Magnus Heunicke agrees that core welfare could be older, schools and children, so one might question whether it is core welfare to invest in a billion-dollar cultural house at Aarhus Harbour, or whether it is core welfare to invest in a ski slope out here on Amager or hen team in Lejre and Gladsaxe and stripes of other examples, which just illustrate the point that of course the important priority must be first. I don't get involved in how to do it municipally. But I would just like to say that when you come and say first of all that people have to go out and pick up money in the children's institutions, in schools or in the elderly, it is not right that we invest in some of the things I have sketched out here at the same time. There is, of course, a possibility of prioritising, and that is what we are proposing with the re-prioritisation contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316140422	We thank the rapporteur of the Left and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next one is sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316140440	We are pleased that we have this debate today. When we had a debate with the Minister for Finance 14 days ago during the Wednesday Question Time, the Minister for Finance asked why we are discussing this all the time. It can be said that one of the reasons is that the government can succeed in pushing this issue through, among other things. to raise the debates on a regular basis. In any case, we have heard both the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party and the rapporteur for the Left say that the proposal for adoption tabled jointly by the Left and the DF means that the money from the re-priority contribution, the 2.4 billion. kr., must go back to the municipalities. This is an interesting development, because when we had the Wednesday Question Time, the Minister for Finance said that we cannot guarantee that that money should go back to the municipalities. They should go to priority areas, including tax relief. The only thing that needs to be said is that debate is useful. It's good to push the government. We now have a government which, with this proposal for adoption, has in fact publicly announced before the negotiations taking place in the National Association of Municipalities that we are prepared to give back all the money. This is clearly a strengthening of the negotiating position of the National Association of Municipalities, and we are very happy about this in the Enhedslisten. In this context, I would also like to say that we very much hope that the municipalities, the National Association of Municipalities and the 17 members of the National Association of Municipalities, who have to decide on a possible agreement with the government, will not enter into an agreement with the government which includes a re-priority contribution. Because I could not agree more with the Finance Minister's party colleague in Kalundborg, the Left Mayor Martin Damm, President of the KL, who outlines three possible solutions for the re-priority contribution: the good solution where everything is scrapped; the evil solution, which is a solution where the money is returned; that is the solution that lies in the proposal for adoption from the Left and the DF; and then the cruel solution, which is the one that the government has toured until recently and had as its position. So perhaps we are back in the negotiating game that is running to talk about having the opportunity between an evil solution and a good solution with the cruel solution as having slipped out. At least that is what the government has now publicly responded to. I think that's really nice. I also find it very interesting to see the proposal for adoption put forward by the parties Enhedslisten, Alternativet, SF, SS and R, where, after all, we all want a different political majority in this Parliament, going out and saying clearly that the re-priority contribution must be scrapped. If there is a new government, there will be no re-priority contribution. The joint political message seems to me to be very worthwhile and it sends out a clear signal as to what the five parties behind the proposal for adoption think. I think that is extremely relevant. This is, of course, relevant in order to avoid the billions of cuts involved. It's not just about removing 1%. You have to look at it in a completely different way. You cannot remove money from the municipalities without having concrete consequences. There are 98 municipalities. A municipality is approx. 1% In fact, the re-priority contribution is equivalent to cutting away a municipality. If, at the same time, we have so many refugees who come to the country and who need help, it is in fact the case that there will be a municipality that has not been financed, because the government has announced for the time being that the municipalities will not be compensated for the increase in expenditure. This is also, of course, part of the negotiations with the National Association of Municipalities, as there are currently. It is absolutely crucial that the re-priority contribution be scrapped, otherwise we will be laid off by SOSU helpers, there will be more elderly people, there will have to carry a wet diaper, there will be more children being abandoned, and we will see fewer standards in children's institutions. That is what will happen if there is a re-priority contribution and the money is not returned. Then it can be said that if the money is returned, we still have the management problem that only the municipalities enter into budget agreements in the autumn, and then they go out and fire a lot of people, and then some money comes back to the Finance Act, and then they have to hire those people again, except if some of the people they have chosen to fire are fortunate enough to have six months' notice. In other words, in terms of governance, it is completely madness and, by the way, also an undermining of municipal autonomy. I think it is also important to point out in this debate that the five parties that are behind the proposal for adoption here, the red parties, actually also represent a majority on the board of the National Association of Municipalities, namely 9 out of 17 members on the board of the National Association of Municipalities. So pressure has also been put on the government in the negotiations. If the parties stand firm, we represent a majority on the board of the National Association of Municipalities, and I am sure that will also be part of the government's deliberations in the negotiations that are going to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316140927	Thank you. There is room for two short remarks in this round. The first one's from sir. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316140933	I almost thought it was the good one, the bad one, and saw the really funny solution. I think there was a satire program that used to be called. Thank you for the introduction. I don't mean to be polemical at all, but when sir... Rune Lund also says that if there is such a change of priority contribution, it will per year. I would just like to ask: see Mr. Rune Lund no possibility at all of making it more appropriate and more efficient in the municipalities? I mentioned, for example, that the City of Copenhagen has an administration, and if you compare it with Aarhus, how expensive it is to administer the City of Copenhagen per year. There will be only half a billion inhabitants there. kr. To fetch. See, sir. Rune Lund doesn't have any potential in it at all? Is Mr. Rune Lund did not agree with the 90%. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a few comments on the report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316141022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316141023	I'm sure there is. I have also personally had the pleasure of working in my civilian life before I joined the Danish Parliament this time, as a budget bishop and calculator, where I have worked with efficiency improvements in the municipalities. Of course, it can be made more efficient. The municipalities do that all the time. The municipalities have been doing this for years. They re-prioritize, they streamline, they make things more rational, they use resources sensibly. What is the difference here is that they say: you have to realise savings equivalent to 1%. and deliver them to the Treasury which then becomes such a sugar bowl that you can distribute from, among other things. in the context of financial law negotiations. That's not a good way to do it. One of the motivations to make a good efficiency is to say to the employees and users: If we streamline and do things more sensibly, then the money stays here, but we spend it in a different way. This guarantee does not, of course, exist if you have a re-prioritisation contribution, where, for example, there is one. will be handed out for tax breaks if that's the cruel solution we're talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316141119	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316141120	No, that was the really fun solution. I'm kidding. Sir. Rune Lund says that the municipalities spend the money efficiently, but that there is also something that is core welfare. Mr. Rune Lund, isn't something more important than anything else? I mentioned, for example, and it wasn't because I had to interfere with it, but I just used it as an example • Aarhus Municipality, which has invested in a billion-dollar cultural house, Dokk1. One might think that it is really nice and important, but could one have imagined that perhaps that money in the core welfare area could have been used for the renovation of schools or other and that way around having strengthened the core welfare? Is this not an option that can also be seen from the Enhedslisten side, namely that not all the money is necessarily devoted to core welfare, but that perhaps there too could be a slightly different priority?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316141203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316141204	Now I don't know what sir. Jacob Jensen means by the word "core welfare," because what does that mean? Does this mean that the only time in a nursing home is to dry your butts and change your diapers on the old ones, and then they can take care of themselves? Is that core welfare? Well, welfare is a lot of things. In general, I think that the term 'core welfare' can be very problematic, because it smells of very, very scraped welfare. I am not one of those who think that culture is something that is a kind of whipped cream or a luxury that municipalities should not deal with. I believe that culture is also an important part of the work of the municipalities, and I think it is wrong to say that you can just cut a lot there. The municipalities have cut, streamlined, saved and abandoned jobs for years, and they have come to the point that they cannot save any more without having significant consequences without harming the children without harming the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316141245	For the sake of the time limit, there will only be room for one more questioner in that round, and that is Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316141251	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech, which I really thought was quite interesting. But there were a lot of examples of older people not feeling well out there, that they are not being talked enough with the elderly and that the primary school is bad, and it is true that those examples are out there. Why, then, do we not agree that there must be a re-prioritisation, that is, a solidarity system in which the municipalities in which there is growth and employment, the municipalities in which the universities and the infrastructure are located, where things are happening, which is, in fact, a good thing; we all welcome the fact that we share a little of the growth that is taking place in those places? You take 1%. of the turnover there is and distributes to the neighbouring municipalities, where it looks a little difficult. Is it really a long way off for Enhedslisten to show solidarity with the municipalities that are having a difficult time? Does it matter that something goes from the City of Copenhagen, where you have growth, to Langeland, where you definitely do not have growth? Is that what you're against?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316141346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316141347	No, it is not, and there is no doubt that there are some municipalities in this country that may be Langeland, and it can be Langeland, for example. also be Lolland where you are charged some expenses that you are not master of yourself, for example. in relation to the fact that there are many people receiving cash benefits who move to the municipality. These are some costs which, so to speak, have been imposed on the municipalities without being compensated for, and I think we need to discuss how we do it. And I just want to say that when the discussion about a compensatory reform comes, the Enhedslisten will be very open to looking at how we can compensate some of the municipalities that are very badly affected by things that they do not control themselves. We'd like that. But that is something else, we think, than under an efficiency hat to take a re-priority contribution, where you take some money and put it in a sugar bowl in here, in other words in the treasury. We say that the efficiency and re-prioritisation that must take place in the municipalities has been doing so for years, they are already doing so, and we should not interfere with that by the state. We don't have to steal their money to put it in a sugar bowl that can then be handed out from in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316141450	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316141452	Thank you for your answer. In other words, it is recognised that there is the challenge here, that there are some municipalities where there are now, you have to be careful with the terms "if not whipped cream, then something to take off. There are also municipalities that are having a really difficult time and where, of course, the municipal councils are doing as well as they can. Then you also have to be careful, as we do in here all the time, to say that the municipalities are doing so well, so well. There are also examples of municipalities that actually make it really bad. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: do you want to support the proposal put forward by the Left and the Danish People's Party? Because this can actually help to raise some of the challenges that the rapporteur also raised in his rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316141530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316141531	I would first like to say that I do not recognize the picture that around the municipalities there are a lot of whipped cream. I certainly do not think there is. However, I say that the Enhedslisten, in the context of the discussions on a compensatory reform, will be very much in favour of a discussion on how we can, for example. can compensate some of the municipalities which are most severely affected at the moment. Will we support this proposal? We're still thinking about that. To vote for it speaks that we have come a little closer than we were 14 days ago with the Minister of Finance down here in the Parliamentary Chamber. Against that it says that the proposal lays down, as it were, the principle of the re-priority contribution itself, which we consider to be fundamentally wrong. So it will be the two considerations that determine our final position.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316141616	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. We move on to the next rapporteur in line, and that is Mr Beazley. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316141625	I would like to start by referring to the background to the re-prioritisation contribution. The background is that in the last parliamentary term we had a government which at that time consisted of the Social Democrats, Radicals and the SF. The three parties together set up a Productivity Commission, which selected the people who were thought to be the smartest in the country to explore how much efficiency the public sector has. The Productivity Commission went deep into three areas, all of which were at the heart of the municipalities: childcare, schooling and care for the elderly. The three areas represent the majority of public consumption in the municipalities, and the result of the Productivity Commission's study was that there was a potential for efficiency in the three areas which account for the majority of municipal consumption of at least 10%, only if the municipalities that are not as efficient become as efficient as those that are most efficient. At least 10%. It came out that the Productivity Commission also stated that there was, of course, also the possibility of being more efficient in the municipalities which are already the most effective today. The efficiency potential has not been exhausted simply because some people are more efficient than others, even the efficient ones can also be more efficient. So at least 10%. Then there was a parliamentary election. The Liberal Alliance went to the polls for the entire public sector to be made more efficient by 1%. a year for 10 years, so that we gradually came up to 10 per cent. Then this new government makes this one percent government policy for the municipalities. Municipalities must be made more efficient by 1%. a year. The Left has an appeal against it, and they say: the municipalities, yes, they can make it more efficient, but they certainly do not have to deliver any money to the Treasury from their efficiency potential, because that is the money of the municipalities. Now it is the case that every year the municipalities receive 65 billion. kr. in block grants from the Treasury. 65 billion kr. Therefore, one could reasonably say that if the municipalities can drive themselves cheaper, which the left wing apparently agrees with them, then the Treasury must also be able to feel it in the form that the block subsidy does not have to be so high. So you do not have to grant the same subsidy when what you are subsidising can be made cheaper. So that's the rationale behind the re-priority contribution. Firstly, it is a recognition that the municipalities can drive themselves cheaper, and secondly, it is the view that when they can do so, the State's block grants should not remain unchanged at 65 billion. kr. It's allowed to fall. The Liberal Alliance wants the money from the re-priority contribution to be spent on two things. They must be used to relieve the burden on citizens when they come from transfer income to work. We want there not to be taxes on the first DKK 7,000. of monthly earnings. That's the first thing. The second is that we want it to contribute to the financing of the more elderly and more children coming in the coming years. So some of the money needs to be spent on increased service production, the remaining money needs to be spent on lightening the tax at the bottom. That is our policy. This is why we have put forward the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament states that released funds in 2017 as a result of the municipal re-priority contribution are used to support the future municipal economy, e.g. through increased service and higher employment. The funds must be given priority where the need is greatest. The actual implementation takes place in the context of the negotiations on the local economy and the financial law negotiations. V 36).
ParlaMint-DK_20160316142043	The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate. We thank the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance and move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316142118	The rapporteur keeps coming, but it is also called an urgent question. Thank you for the floor. In the alternative, we think that the criticism from the municipalities has been so clear and so serious that we have to stand on the side of the municipalities in this matter and ask for a clear response from the government. That is why I also recognise that the government has now said that it will send the money back to the municipalities in 2017. Having said that, however, we are still of the opinion that a change of priority contribution is a completely wrong way of running the municipalities. I think that this is the latest in a number of measures that restrict local government and the right of municipalities to give priority, and this applies from the tax freeze to the expenditure ceiling, where we restrict the municipalities' ability to spend money in the municipalities. We are of the opinion that we should set the municipalities free. So we will continue to work to ensure that the re-prioritisation contribution should go completely, because I think it is a bad thing. I think the municipalities should know what they have to do with. The municipalities are told to save 2.4 billion. kr., and that they may get them back, and we simply do not think that this is a serious way of budgeting, and that is not in line with local self-government. I think it has been interesting to hear that the money now has to go back in 2017; it should go to municipal core welfare. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance whether that means that we in the Folketing should then sit and decide on the individual municipalities, i.e. whether it should go to elderly welfare, or whether it should go to children's care or to schools, or whether it means that the municipalities will of course now have the funds and can use them as they please. We are very critical of the re-priority contribution, because we would still like to get rid of that, even in the remaining years, and I hope the government will take note of this and thus completely remove the structure they have introduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316142344	Thank you. There is one brief comment for the time being. It's from sir. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316142349	Thank you. I have, of course, taken note of the opposition of the alternative to this way of re-prioritising, but I would just like to ask whether the alternative does not agree with me that we should look at the public sector under one which I tried to express in my rapporteur's speech, that is to say, that we are just saying that there is now the box that that money is going to be used for, and if they have not been used, they will certainly have to be used anyway. And then there is another class, they have some other means, they need to be used for something, and they certainly need to be used, because it is not acceptable to move them around. Does the alternative not, as I do, feel that the public sector is dynamic, and there are times when the needs differ from one area to another, and that, just as Parliament has the overall responsibility to create the framework according to how we politically stand, yet yet it creates the framework where we can see that the need is greatest. Then we can discuss what the need is, whether it should be health or the elderly or tax relief, or what I know. But does not the Alternative also have a view that the public sector should be seen under one and that we should not look at the individual boxes separately?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316142451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316142453	Thank you for the question, and if I understand it correctly, then yes, I agree that one should see it under one. What I just think is extremely important is that we make a municipal agreement, the government makes a municipal agreement with the municipalities in June, and it is in that agreement that the municipalities must know what they have to do with. Then they will have to decide for themselves out there in the municipality whether they give priority to one area rather than the other, because there is a huge difference in the circumstances of the individual municipalities in different areas. That is why I am so concerned that the municipalities should know what they have to do with, and they know that in the municipal agreement. That is why I believe that it is a mistake for us to say that you should withhold 1%, by the way, and then you may be able to get some of it back. Well, hopefully they will do so here in 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316142542	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316142545	And otherwise I didn't understand the question correctly). That was really true, and thank you for the answer. It wasn't quite right next door. As I see the alternative's response here, the concern for the alternative is more that our proposals for adoption, that is to say, the motion for a resolution by the Left and the Danish People's Party, show that it is also the financial law negotiations. If it had now been said that it would all be organised during the municipal agreement negotiations, there would have been no problem. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316142610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316142612	No, that is not quite understood, so I have expressed myself unclearly. What I mean is that it is important to me that the municipalities know one hundred percent what they have to do with, and I would rather, once we have decided what the municipalities have to do with, leave to the municipalities themselves how they spend their money. Then there may be very special situations, such as: Here about the refugee situation, where we say that there may be a need to provide the municipalities with additional funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316142639	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Alternative. We are moving forward in the line of rapporteurs. The next one is sir. Martin Lidegaard from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316142649	Thank you very much. The Radical Left strongly opposes the re-priority contribution that the government has made up here. This is not because we do not believe that the municipalities can be made more efficient. Of course there can be. Nor is it because we think that we should try to see whether it can be made more efficient, but it is simply the method that the government has found here, which is completely inedible, because it is, it can be said, unconscious, it is a green harvester that just goes beyond all municipalities without prioritising what we want more or less of, and then it is also very centralist. What is so unsympathetic about the model that has been found here is that all the unpleasant decisions have to be made in the municipalities, the concrete savings on care for the elderly, in kindergartens, schools, on all the core welfare that is in the municipalities, and then it is the Finance Minister and the Danish People's Party who are going to be sharing good gifts in the Finance Act this autumn. That is why I would also like to say that the most interesting thing that has come out here today is, in my view, two things. The first is that it completely sails in the blue block, where you mean very different things about this re-priority contribution, but the interesting thing is that one obviously agrees to some extent with us that it would therefore be more reasonable if the municipalities had at least a little influence on what this money is going to do. That, for example. instead of sitting and distributing them a late night hour in the Ministry of Finance in November, where the municipalities cannot get it into their budgets, where the municipalities do not have a say in what should be a priority in the municipalities, and where very few people should sit and distribute these many billions, then in fact some small opening up to the fact that it might be the municipalities themselves who have provided this money, which helps to determine what to do and how to prioritise them in a way that does not cost expensive bureaucracy and where it can also be included in the budgets of the municipalities, namely by agreeing on this in the municipal agreement. It would be interesting if the government had chosen to invite a discussion both with the municipalities and with the rest of us on how to achieve the efficiency of the public sector that is necessary. Where is it that we want to find it, where is it that we want to increase budgets, instead of doing it blindfolded and forcing municipalities to make savings and even distribute Christmas presents without taking any responsibility? Everyone knows that the Radical Left upholds financial responsibility. What is the solution to this country's economic problems is to carry out reforms that make the whole cake bigger, so that we can afford, among other things. to the elderly. It doesn't help anything just to save out in the municipalities and distribute the same amount of money and then let quite a few people take care of it instead of the common decentralized principle, the whole agreement and the principle of an agreement between the municipalities and the state and the respect of municipal autonomy and decentralised. It's gonna be exciting to see how it's going with all these different decisions tomorrow. On the radical side, we can just say that we mean the same thing as we have always thought, we are fervently opposed to the re-priority contribution, but if it is finally that a majority in the Folketing intends to implement it, then of course we hope that the municipalities will have as much influence as possible on how it is to be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316143015	Thank you. There are two short remarks, the first is Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316143022	It sounds really good with these fine words about municipal autonomy and that the Radicals are watching over it and so on. When Mr. Martin Lidegaard was in government, and that is not much more than half a year ago, one was in a situation where one cut down into the public service framework, but at the same time one entered here from central and prioritized teams I think it was Margrethe Vestager, at that time Martin Lidegaard's chairman, who made it a pool to the municipalities, I think it was half a billion, something like that, perhaps also in several times, to educators. There you went out first and took the money from the municipalities, and then you went from central teams in and dictated how the funds were to be spent all the way to the last kindergarten. What is wrong with the way we do it? What is different from when you were responsible? The same thing was done: took the money and then prioritised the areas which seemed politically important to prioritize.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316143119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316143121	For me, the crucial and very important difference in principle is that we agreed with the municipalities. We did not make any efficiency improvements in the municipalities, without it being agreed in the municipal agreements that we would do so. What the government has done here is, of course, that during the budget estimates years in 2017 and 2018 and 2019 it will be determined that a full percentage should be given priority every year, but without there being any influence for the municipalities on what that money should be spent on. And that's the big difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316143152	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316143154	Well, as I remember, when you made this pool for the educators, the municipalities were very much against it. They would rather have been over the block subsidy, but the then SR government, perhaps I should have said to the RS government, trumped through the 500 million that had to be taken, a total of 3 billion savings over the period, and then they took and dedicated the 500 million against the municipalities' will for one specific area. And now you stand and say that we must now also take care of municipal self-government. What is the difference between what was done at the time and what we are proposing with a re-priority contribution, where we add extra money to the municipalities in 2016?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316143233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316143233-2	I think it is fairly clear that planning a full percentage of savings every year 3 years into the future without even having asked the municipalities or getting it into a municipal agreement is very different from in individual areas and, as a rule, always agreeing at least the savings themselves in the municipal agreements. That's a big difference. That's a huge difference, among other things. just in amounts • billions of dollars in difference • but also a very large difference in principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316143303	The last question in this round is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316143307	Thank you. And I would like to stay on the same track because when we look back over the last four years, when the rapporteur himself has had a great deal of influence in the government, you can see that year by year has been saved. After all, there has been no re-priority contribution that has been brought back to the municipalities. Why, then, does the rapporteur think it is so bad now that we are actually adding more money to the municipalities than has been taken in recent years? Now we're starting to make it right again. But we are taking money back to the municipalities. After all, we have said that this will be done in 2016, and it has now been heard here that it will also be in 2017 when the money will be given welfare. However, when the rapporteur was in government, money was just taken; there was no reversal, as is the case with this re-prioritisation contribution. So why is it so bad here? Why are the municipalities worse off now than they were in the last four years when the rapporteur was in government?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316143407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316143407-2	In other words, we do not know whether or not the Danish People's Party will adopt their proposals for adoption tomorrow when it comes to voting on them, but I find it difficult to see how more money should be made available to the municipalities by first forcing them to save 1%. and then make a proposal for adoption that you should prioritize the municipalities when you have to sit in the financial law negotiations and distribute this money. It will certainly not give any more money to the municipalities. In the best case, it's a big zero. Well, the Lord gives, the Lord takes, but it doesn't help the municipalities' finances.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316143440	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316143442	Now I just have to correct and say that the budget is actually increasing by 0.5 billion. kr. In 2016, it's not like a zero. However, the rapporteur was able to vote in favour of the proposal because then he was sure that the money remained in the municipalities so that we could get a majority in favour of this with the re-priority contribution. But that does not change the saving of 3 billion. kr. during the reign of the rapporteur, when the money was not returned to the municipalities. And in that time the municipalities have actually had to save and not be able to spend it on other welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316143518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316143520	That is true, and it is also an answer to the rapporteur from the Left. During our reign, we made quite large savings both in the municipalities and in the state. We had a major economic crisis and we had to get out of it, and we also took extraordinary steps in that direction. But that cannot be used to legitimise so that we can cut down even further in the next four years. We had an economic crisis and we had to get over it. Our response to the economy now is reforms; it is to make the cake bigger, instead of the municipalities having to eat off their own tail.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316143552	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. And I'll pass on the floor to Mr. Jonas Dahl as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316143601	The SF is opposed to the re-priority contribution or the downgrade contribution, as I quite rightly think it should be called. The government's own figures for the economy of the municipalities show that in the years 2017-2019 more than 7 billion will have to be saved. kr. As a result of this re-prioritization contribution. And, in my view, it is an expression of purely news talk when it comes to priorities, because basically it is a question of municipalities having to make historic savings if these promises of tax relief and promises of better health are to be respected. Then there's only one place to take the money from. That is why we should rightly call it a down-priority contribution, because children, schools, the elderly and the disabled will suffer in the years to come. In my own municipality, the municipality of Aarhus, to which the rapporteur of the Left also referred, according to the Labour Movement's Employment Council, 400 million are to be collected. kr. It is on top of the approx. 2,000 employees already had to be disposed of in recent years. And this also means that the developments we have seen and are going to see, I believe, in both larger and smaller municipalities in the years to come, will be that there will be significantly fewer employees to provide the citizens' welfare. That is why it will also be a pure poison to lay out for local welfare, because in municipalities, day care centres, homes, schools, throughout the municipal sector, large savings will be forced through, and it will also be felt by citizens' welfare. I also think it is an infinitely bad idea that we should sit down and make the detailed regulation that Christiansborg is now proposing, and that is what we are proposing with the re-priority contribution. So I think that the government and the government's support parties owe some clear answers to how much money the government is planning to return to the municipalities. Now it has come out a little clearer, at least from parts of the blue block today, that it is in 2017 that you can probably count on some of the money. It is obviously not from a single blue block what is a little strange in itself that the government has support for the policy that it is apparently planning to pursue. But how much money is actually being brought back to the municipalities? Which areas of the municipalities and regions should be strengthened and given additional funding? And what areas do the government think can be cut off locally? We have heard the rapporteur of the Left say today that culture can be affected. I should like to say that there is not much culture left if you cut the 7 billion. kr. in the field of culture, but I'm sure you can do that in many places. Thus, both politicians and citizens and employees must already prepare themselves for the savings that come, whether you like it or not, whether you want to talk about it from the citizen or not. After all, the answers are completely fluctuating in the wind, even after today's debate. The Left, Conservatives and, in particular, the Liberal Alliance, must have their desire for tax relief met. Now we have heard today that, if you ask the government, it should not be financed with the re-priority contribution, but if you ask the Liberal Alliance, it should be financed with the re-priority contribution, and the Danish People's Party would like to spend the money on better care for the elderly. I would like to conclude by saying a few words about that. I think it is sympathetic to want to strengthen the care of the elderly. But what happened to the gift book that was then opened with the dignity billionaire? The figures show very clearly that the municipalities with the highest tax bases and some of the country's largest pension assets for citizens, i.e. Rudersdal, Hørsholm, Gentofte, Lyngby-Taarbæk and Allerød municipalities, are those who have gained relatively more from the dignity billionaire compared to what they would have received if it had actually been a general municipal subsidy. I believe, however, that we must be quite imaginative, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also tried to be, if we are to believe that it is the poorest municipalities that get more out of it. On the contrary, I would say that these are the richest municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316143947	Thank you, and there will be room for two questioners in this round. The first is sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316143952	When you ask municipal councillors, what has been done in an opinion poll or a survey, whether it is possible to make things more efficient in the municipalities, an overwhelming majority of them reply: yes, it is possible to run our municipality more efficiently. By the SF and by Mr. Jonas Dahl, something other than the many members of the municipal council who say that it is possible to run the municipalities more efficiently without compromising the service to the citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316144023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316144024	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen asked two questions. One was whether the municipalities can operate more efficiently. I think they can. Then Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen subsequently took the second step in that question, and perhaps it was also what was really not asked in that study • if you could run the municipalities more efficiently without going beyond the citizen-friendly welfare if you just cut unconsciously? And no, actually, I don't think you can. So, of course, this is also about making some wise efficiency improvements, and I think that is something I can do. But the question is whether it is wisest that those priorities are being made from Christiansborg or that we leave it to the municipalities. I am therefore confident that the municipalities will be able to fulfil that task.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316144100	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316144102	So SF also believes that the municipalities can drive themselves more efficiently if only it is done wisely. So the question is: since the municipalities can operate themselves more efficiently and cheaperly, it must be so forever that the block grant from the state to the municipalities must always be at least 65 billion. kr., or may it be so that when the municipalities can run themselves a little cheaper, is the block subsidy from the state also slightly smaller? After all, the grant is for the operation of the municipalities, and the municipalities can run themselves cheaper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316144135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316144136	I think it is a very important incentive, including in a municipal council, that if we can do things more effectively in one way or another, and I think we can do that, then it must also benefit local community welfare. I think that is far better than giving it to tax cuts, which is what the Liberal Alliance wants. I have full respect for the fact that that is what you want. I just disagree politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316144153	The last question in this round is Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316144200	Thank you. I heard the rapporteur for the SF say that there is less growth in the municipalities' service costs here in 2016. I would like to ask the rapporteur:
ParlaMint-DK_20160316144221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316144222	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316144224	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316144226	That's a no I heard here from the SF. Having said that, could the SF's rapporteur not be involved in the educational effort, for example, towards the Social Democrats' President, Mette Frederiksen, who tells the wondering world that there is less growth, that it is quite awful and that it is the government's fault and DF's fault and all sorts of others' fault that there is minus growth, that it is not correct? Could it not be a very good service information to get here that there is no minus growth? By the way, it was there when the SF sat in government for a few years. That's when there was negative growth in earnest, but there isn't in 2016. Don't we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316144306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316144307	We fully agree that there is an injection of funds in the 2016 Finance Act. I believe that what is extremely worrying, even in the municipality of Denmark, is whether it is going to last. I am therefore pleased that the Danish People's Party and the government seem to agree now that the money from the re-priority contribution to tax relief should not be spent either in 2017. I just have to say that there is obviously no agreement on this in the blue block, and frankly I am concerned about that. When you start cutting down by 7 billion. kr. in the municipalities with a re-priority contribution, it makes me really concerned about what it means for welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316144336	Thank you to the rapporteur for the SF. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316144346	The Danish economy is under pressure from demography, pressure from an increased influx of refugees, and pressure from the OECD that we are facing the third lowest or fourth lowest growth in the next five years. What can be done about it? Yes, first of all, we must ensure that we shift the focus on private sector growth and ensure that some economy is moved from the public sector to the private sector, so that we get investment in productivity, innovation and jobs. And a very big piece in the big public economy is the municipal economy. 237 billion kr. they use 98 municipalities. They have been through efficiency improvements over the last four years of between 2.7 billion. kr. and 3 billion. kr. a year. What has then been proposed is a re-priority contribution of 1%, 2.4 billion. kr. Of course it can be done. Any company, whether it is an SME with five employees or one of the major companies, will have to carry out efficiency improvements and lean processes of 2-3 per cent. Every year every year. How can you do that? New digitalisation technologies, new forms of management, sick leave are used, and all kinds of tools are used to make the company healthier and stronger. The municipalities themselves have done the same. They have done so by making too much money more efficient in recent years, and changing governments, regardless of party color, have made those demands. So we insist that there is a need for efficiency in the municipalities, but there is also a need to look at how to spend the money sensibly. That is why we are not against making the money more efficient and demanding that the municipalities be made more efficient, so that the money is spent sensibly wherever it is needed in the public sector. It may be due to an increase in the influx of refugees; it may be that the demographics mean that more money needs to be spent on the health system; and it may be that some more money needs to be spent on making business more competitive by targeting employment measures so that we get the economy better along that path. So our position on this is that, of course, the municipalities need to be more efficient, like everyone else in this society, and that we also need to be able to make demands on the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316144608	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316144629	The Government believes that, in the light of the tight financial framework, it should be possible to prioritise funds across sectors. The government has therefore introduced a re-priority contribution of 1%. in the municipal expenditure ceiling in 2016-2019, as well as the government re-prioritisation contribution is widespread for education and culture. The government will use the released funds as a result of the municipal re-priority contribution to citizen-close welfare, so that the funds in the public sector are given priority where the need is greatest. In other words, the money from the re-priority contribution cannot go to tax cuts. For 2017, the government proposes that the money from the re-priority contribution be returned to the municipalities to high-priority areas. The precise application of the re-priority contribution is agreed in the annual negotiations on the economy of the municipalities as well as in the financial negotiations. If the parties of the Folketing want to influence where the money is to be spent, then the negotiations on the Finance Act will take place. For what is the alternative to a reprioritisation contribution? That we stop developments in the public sector, as the Socialists propose? Do we fail to give priority to new funds for health and the elderly? There is a need for sustained development in the public sector, and so we cannot live with a public sector that is cast in concrete. I am therefore surprised that, for example, the Socialists will say in advance that there can be no situation where the municipalities' budget of almost 240 billion can arise. In the case of the United Kingdom, there is no doubt that this is not the case in the case of Ireland. The municipalities received 3 billion. kr. less in service framework from 2012 to 2015. If one were to interpret history, one would think that we would agree that we can and should be able to prioritise across the public sector at a time when the money is scarce. And the basic conditions for the public economy are crystal clear: there is little money, and that applies regardless of who has the government. In the government's optics, the responsible answer is simple: we have one public sector where we need to use the tax dollars as best we can for the citizen. It is not the government's money, it is not the local authorities' money, it is the Danes' money we are talking about. The Government does not recognise the premise that a re-prioritisation contribution per year I am therefore delighted when the municipalities over a broad spectrum show that there is considerable potential in learning from each other, in improving the efficiency of digitalisation, in efficient procurement, in efficient management and operation, etc. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145004	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mr. Jonas Dahl, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145012	Now we have the Minister of Finance on the floor and welcome to the floor, but I would like to return to the discussion we also had with the rapporteur of the Left. Two weeks ago and in the autumn, we could hear the Left, the Prime Minister and also the Finance Minister himself say that this re-priority contribution or downgrade contribution, as I would call it, could well be used for tax cuts. Today we can understand that it cannot, at least not in 2017. Is that correct, and is it government policy now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145039	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145041	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145043	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145045	You always have to enjoy converted sinners, and that's what I choose in this case. It is so good that we now have the promise from the government and from the Minister of Finance himself that you will not spend money in 2017 on the tax reliefs... then you have to solve the problems with its parliamentary basis, the Liberal Alliance, later on... but what about 2018 and 2019? Can we count on the money from the re-priority contribution also there crown to crown will be returned to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145109	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145110	I just want to say that the system we have works by making annual municipal agreements, just as we do annual financial agreements. That is the system that will also apply in the future. We will make an economic agreement here in May with the municipalities and with the regions applicable for the year 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145129	The next question is Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145135	I should like to hear from the Minister for Finance whether the Minister for Finance will make a correction and send a new answer to Question No. 90 to the draft law L 1, in which the Minister of Finance states that priority may be given to the use of the re-prioritisation contribution to tax reliefs. I understand that the Minister is now saying the opposite, and that is why I should just like to know whether the firm commitment made by the Minister here will also be expressed through a correction of previous words in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145213	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145214	When we say what we say, it's because we mean it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145218	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145220	That is what we must assume, since in the answer to Question No. 90 under L 1 said that the money could be used for tax reliefs. Well, that's kind of what Mr. Jonas Dahl mentioned it. Now we understand what this is about in 2017 by the government, but what is the permanent response to the re-priority contribution? Does it also apply in 2018 and 2019 that no money can be spent from the re-priority contribution to tax reliefs?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145252	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145253	The answer in relation to the re-prioritisation contribution is that it applies between 2016 and 2019 and that each year, in the context of the economic negotiations and in the context of the financial law negotiations, we discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145309	The next question is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145315	The proposal for adoption which has been tabled states that the municipal re-prioritisation contribution should be used to ensure the core welfare of the municipalities. When I asked Mr. René Christensen and Mr. Jacob Jensen, they said quite clearly that the word should be understood as being meant. So I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: is it true that in the proposal for adoption the word should be understood as meaning?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145341	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145343	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145344	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145345	Well, it was nice to hear it, because then we got it straight. Then you can consider whether that means, if we have a debate on the municipalities' economy in 2017 in 14 days, that the government has then made further concessions. It would be interesting to look at it when we have seen how the government has moved in the last 14 days. I am very pleased that we are standing here today and seeing a government that reports out publicly that it is quite ready to return all 2.4 billion. kr. to the municipalities. I am sure that this is a signal that has been heard very clearly by the municipalities and by the National Association of Municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145420	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145421	And that's why I expect Mr. Rune Lund will vote in favour of the motion tabled by the Left and the Danish People's Party, because that is the only logical consequence of the joy Mr. Rune Lund is exhibiting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145434	The next question in the line is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145439	It's exciting to be in this debate because the government's policy is constantly moving, and so are the Liberal Alliances, and the Conservatives and the Left and the Danish People's Party. I understand that this is how I understand the Minister for Finance that now it is really clear that at least in 2017 every penny that comes from the re-priority contribution from the municipalities will go back to the municipalities. Would it not be better to negotiate how they should go out to the municipalities in connection with the agreement to be made with the municipalities here in May, so that they can budget it and we avoid that stop and go policy out there in the municipalities, and so that the municipalities have got the money and saved it out there • also have an impact on where the money is most needed in the municipalities, instead of having to allocate a late night hour in November in the Ministry of Finance, where the municipalities have not had the opportunity to budget it? What I mean is that it may be that you make savings that will not be needed out there at all if you do it in this a little backward-looking way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145539	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145541	I understand what the Radical Left is saying here. It is that the Radical Left is firmly established, so the Radical Left is not following what the Social Democrat President says, namely that we have to look at the specific situation with this re-prioritisation contribution. The Radical Left is stuck hard together with Enhedslisten, SF and possibly the alternative. We'll just have to take stock of that. For the rest of us, it is the case that we have this priority contribution, and we negotiate this with the municipalities in the municipality's economic agreement, and we negotiate this with the parties of the Folketing, of course, those who want to participate in the financial negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145625	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145627	It is true that the Radicals, like all the other parties in our part of the House, are opposed to this kind of re-priority contribution, where all the savings are to be found in the municipalities and so happily distributed at a late hour in the Ministry of Finance. We are not in favour of this kind of centralism, but it is not the same as not believing that we can be effective. My question is simply: was it not more reasonable to the municipalities, to the many public servants, that from first to save and fire people and then to four months later to get the money back and could use them, that the ministry implement that priority in the municipal agreements instead of doing so in the financial law negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145704	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145706	When we last had financial law negotiations, the Radical Left did not want to negotiate savings in the area of the state. Now I understand that the Radical Left will not negotiate on the economy of the municipalities either. For it was, of course, a violent criticism against the savings in the re-priority contribution that we made last time in the financial law negotiations, which I suppose the rapporteur can remember. So, the only logical conclusion is that the Radical Left is against all savings.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145741	The next question is Mr. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145746	Thank you. I would like to ask a little about the proposal for adoption that the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has put forward here. It must be understood that negotiations have been really tough, because the Minister himself says that this is a completely new policy from the Left, in relation to what has been heard earlier from the governing party, and that is certainly a step in the right direction. I would like to ask you about the fact that the funds have to be returned to the municipalities again, and then it says: this is in the context of the negotiations on the economy of the municipalities and in the financial law negotiations. Why both? Why has it not come to the conclusion that if the money still has to go back to the municipalities, why not get it done while you sit with the municipalities and can get input on where it is needed and they can listen to what the government wants. Then you can make that deal there and you are free of this stop-and-go policy that several people have mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145837	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145839	It is because it is the two places that we determine the economy for the state, the municipalities and the regions for the following year, i.e. for 2017. That is why I think it is very natural that we should negotiate this with the municipalities and the regions and the parties of the Danish Parliament as far as the Finance Act is concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145859	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145905	It is said that this is the way we usually do it, but it is far from being the way we usually do it. We don't usually do these exercises that the government has now set up. So what we usually do, I don't really think you can use it in this context. I believe that there are a great many mayors, and we have heard this from all parties and also from the Left, who say that it is simply a pity that you have to sit in the summer and dismiss people and hope for and cross your fingers so that you get some money back for the budget negotiations so that you can hire the same people again. However, can the Minister of Finance not see that this is not only an attack on municipal self-government but also directly poor financial management?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316145943	If you don't negotiate these things, sir. Magnus Heunicke then explain to me how 3 billion disappeared. kr. from the service framework of the municipalities, while Mr. Magnus Heunicke was in government? Did they just disappear, or wasn't it something the government had an influence on? That is an interesting question when we discuss these things, because the fact is that under the Socialist-led government 3 billion disappeared. kr. from 2012 to 2015, but apparently the government has no responsibility for it. Then we must start an investigation work on how that money could then disappear from the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316150022	The last question in this debate will be Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316150026	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for Finance. I still think that the re-prioritisation contribution is inappropriate, understood in the sense that it means that in the municipalities they do not know what they have to count on, and I think that goes beyond local self-government. I think it would be an advantage that it was in the municipal negotiations and in the financial negotiations that the municipalities' economy was determined one hundred percent so that they in the municipalities knew what they had to do with. That is why, as a starting point, I am opposed to the re-priority contribution. So I would really like to ask you and it's a bit like a follow-up to what the last speaker asked about how you're going to do it. So, it is now clear from the negotiations that the 2017 funds must be reversed, and this must then be done in the municipal agreements, and this must be done in the financial law negotiations, and the answer was that this is because this is what we usually do. But I just want to say that will it mean that some of the funds will be agreed back in the municipal negotiations and that some of it will then be saved for the financial negotiations? Or how is that supposed to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316150127	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316150127-2	First of all, I would like to say that I would also like everyone to be guaranteed all revenue. I wish that very, very much for Danish society. As far as the state is concerned, we are currently losing billions because of the fall in oil prices, and I would like us to have the same income. So the desire that, when the economic situation is going through, we all remain completely untouched by it, I regard it as a utopia. For it is Danish society that gets poorer when we are hit by this kind of recession in the economy. We then have a system whereby we free the municipalities from cyclical fluctuations, because they do not break through in the Danish municipalities. If you take 10 km across the Øresund, you can see that they have a system in which the economic situation also prevails in the municipalities' economy. So there is no pious world where you can say that whether the economy goes up or down, we just have the same money. I regret that, but unfortunately that is what the facts are.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316150244	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316150245	I think I put a lot of words in my mouth. I'll tell you what. I do not think I have stood here and said that we are not dependent on cyclical fluctuations and so on. I think I was asking about the "or that I tried to ask about how one intends to organise it with regard to the 2017 priority contribution, which I can now understand there is an agreement between the Left and the Danish People's Party to be traced back to the municipalities. Should this be done in the municipal negotiations, or will some part of the pool be reserved for this to take place in the financial negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316150316	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316150318	The negotiations must show that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316150326	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. Then I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the question, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party, for rounding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316150332	Thank you, sir. President, and I shall be very brief. I should just like to say that after this debate we have, of course, received an answer, but first and foremost one answer: the government does not have support for its basic economic policy from its parliamentary basis. That is the final conclusion that we must, of course, deal with in the coming period in this Parliament. I am at least pleased that the opposition of the Danish Parliament is clearly united in relation to, among other things. the municipal re-prioritization contribution. But in all cases it has been a debate which has shown in every possible way that what is said from the parliamentary platform matters, and it might well be that there were a few media in Denmark that could learn from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316150427	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Thursday 17 March 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316150449	I have to inform you that Rasmus Prehn (S) under No. 11 questions put to the Minister for Justice (Question No. S 799) is deleted from the agenda. I should also like to inform you that Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) under No. Questions to the Minister for Justice (Question No 12 and 13) S 814 and S 815) are deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. Question No 1, by Mr McMahon S 814 will move to written savings. I am told here that there are two further questions that are being raised today. These are questions listed under No. 20 by Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen (S) (Question no. S 806) and items listed under No. 21 by Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen (S) (Question no. S 807), which is also deleted from Question Time. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 1, and this is for the Minister of Culture by Mr. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316150608	I give the floor to the author to put the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316150612	Thank you. On the wall of Rasmus Larsen, in the Walking Hall, it is so wisely written that human life gives the law fullness. In this case, I have been made aware of a problem from Kolding Municipality regarding the organisation or association called Danske Hospital Sklovne. This is a problem which not only affects Kolding Municipality and not only affects Danske Hospital Sklovne, it could also have been the Heart Association, it could have been the Danish Cancer Society, and it could have been any municipality in Denmark that was affected by it here. It is about the fact that Kolding Municipality has changed its interpretation of the law in terms of lending the municipality's halls, rooms, etc. for charitable purposes and cultural purposes, so that, for example, the hospital clowns can no longer be allowed to borrow these rooms for charitable purposes. And there it is that I want to ask the Minister for Culture if the Minister for Culture has a position on this changed interpretation in Kolding Municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316150723	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316150725	The short answer is that I have no position on the municipality's change of practice. I would also like to stress that Kolding Theatre is not a theatre, it is a hall in Hotel Comwell, Kolding, which can be used, among other things. for theatrical performances. The municipality rents the hall 40 days a year and provides it free of charge for cultural events and also provides free technical assistance to users. In this way, the City of Kolding provides a grant for the activities that are allowed to use the room and thus get help with the technical. Thus, the municipality supports cultural activity in Kolding. It is quite common for municipalities to support activities by providing rooms free of charge, although it is most common for municipalities to provide their own premises. What seems to be at the heart of this is whether a charity event is a cultural activity and whether the municipality will support it. The purpose of a charity event is to collect money for something, the primary purpose is not to offer a cultural experience. Of course, there may be cultural content in such an event. Different municipalities make different cuts. And Kolding Municipality has decided with effect from 1 January this year not to make premises available for charity events. The municipality has considered that it would distort competition if the municipality were to support charity events and the municipality referred to the municipal authority as the basis for the decision. The legislation that is at stake here is that of the Ministry of Business and Growth, which deals with competition rules, and that of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, which is the Ministry of Local Authority. In my capacity as Minister of Culture, I have no comment on Kolding Municipality's decision. A charity event may certainly have a cultural content, but such an event primarily serves the purpose of raising money for another activity. Kolding Municipality decides how it will prioritise its resources, it can neither can nor will I influence as Minister of Culture, nor will I express any opinion on it. I know too little about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316151004	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316151005	I am, of course, grateful for the clear answer given by the Minister here. I think that this is also within the area of the cultural minister's area of responsibility, in that it is also cultural events. It is also associations that move at least in such a grey area around the area of culture. This is a matter which, for me at least, is of great importance in principle, in that it is some associations that work for the benefit of the general good and not for the sake of profit for their own gain. In this case, it is the hospital clowns, and these are events that benefit children in hospitals. That is why, of course, I had hoped that the Minister for Culture could also have expressed an opinion on the issue here. At any rate, I think I have heard that the Minister said that in this case Kolding Municipality could choose to continue to provide these rooms and premises without conflicting with the local authority.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316151110	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316151111	I do not want to decide whether it would be contrary to the local authority's power to grant aid to hospital clowns. It belongs to another ministry, and I know too little about it. I think it would be strange if the Ministry of Culture were suddenly to dig into a case under another ministry. So I do not therefore have a position on the matter either. I should like to make a factual statement on the position of a minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316151149	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316151150	Well, I recognise and respect the answer I get from the Minister for Culture, and perhaps I also had the impression that with my question here I was going to a number of ministers who could have this question or this matter within their area of responsibility. The Minister for Business and Growth, the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Interior could be a good idea. Once again, however, I would like to say that it is important in principle for us, too, in the field of culture, that we do not put barriers and obstacles in the way of associations which, for the benefit of the general good and for the benefit of ordinary people in our society, will make arrangements which are not carried by the desire for profit for their own benefit, but which in this case are hospital clowns, which are actually doing a very, very commendable job for children in the country's hospitals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316151238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316151240	The questioner knows that, sir. Troels Ravn, the more about than I do. And I haven't said anything that goes against sir. Troels Ravn's position on the matter. I've just refused to make myself a judge, among other things. because it concerns two other ministries, and also because I respect municipal autonomy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316151304	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316151305	Well, I really don't see any reason to spend any more of the precious time on this case and these questions. I move on to it to the Minister for Business and Growth and to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Interior. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316151323	Then we say thank you to the Minister for Culture and to the questioner. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European This is for the Minister of Education and Research, and the question has been asked by Mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316151341	Sir. Rasmus Prehn gets to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316151345	Thank you very much. Does the Minister consider it reasonable that Aalborg University is affected proportionately more by government savings in education than other universities, because students at Aalborg University are the country's fastest to complete their education programmes and the savings in education are primarily placed on the bonus rates for completing bachelors and graduates?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316151411	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316151413	I understand that precisely this is a question that lies at Mr. Rasmus Prehn very much at heart. The question is therefore identical in substance to § 20-question S 188, addressed to my predecessor and answered on 11 November 2015. However, I can assure you, sir. Rasmus Prehn on or perhaps more reassure him that I fully agree with the line my predecessor, Mr. Esben Lunde Larsen, put in the answer. Universities receive training grants at fixed rates per year. annual students, STÅ, in the taximeter system as well as via distribution of the completion pool. The implementation of the completion pool plays an important role in the study time model, giving universities the incentive to ensure that students are not delayed in their education. The pool is distributed partly on the basis of the number of graduates and partly on the basis of university performance in order to ensure good student progress. An increasing part of the pool depends on the universities' ability to ensure student progress. Aalborg University is better at ensuring good student progress than the other universities and therefore receives relatively more from the completion pool. Therefore, it will also benefit Aalborg University that the pot for completion bonus is increased from 0.8 billion. kr. in 2016 to 1 billion. kr. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Aalborg University will benefit if the university maintains student progress. To give an impression of the size conditions, I can inform you that Aalborg University will receive almost the same from the completion pool as the University of Copenhagen, despite the fact that the University of Copenhagen produces significantly more student years' work. Aalborg University thus has considerable benefit from the completion pool. This advantage will now be slightly reduced with the 2016 Finance Act, where the pool has been reduced as a result of the re-prioritisation contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316151634	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316151636	First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to warmly welcome the Minister back. And it is true that I have asked the question in the past, but I had hoped that when a new minister came along, there could also be some new eyes on this. For this seems rather strange to me, since the government has an official policy to encourage students to be completed more quickly. You've had a tradition of having this finalized taximeter that rewarded the universities that were best at it, and then you've had Aalborg University, which has been far, far better at securing it here than other universities, which also has a lot to do with the way you choose to organise the teaching at Aalborg University, where you work project-oriented, problem-based, and where you work in groups, so that the students help to motivate and encourage each other to take care of things, and so that it also becomes harder for the students to skip and not go up to the exam when it's time, so that you're just motivated to fit it. This has had a tremendously positive effect, which is why Aalborg University is the best at completing their students, also with some candidates who are more likely to get jobs later than others. So it's a really positive story. So it's weird that we have a government that says that you want students to finish faster, but then choose to save in the area of these incentive structures, these taximeters. This means that Aalborg University is being punished for being the university best in this field. So when there is a saving, Aalborg University must deliver 21%. of the savings, although Aalborg University, if you look at the size conditions, is only 16 per cent. of the contributions made to universities. So it's a much bigger share than the size of Aalborg University that you have to contribute to these savings. Why is it that a liberal government that usually believes in incentives suddenly removes the incentive, or at least does it less and punishes someone for being good at something? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316151854	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316151855	As I said, I can reassure the honourable Member that, although this is a change of person, the policy is the same. And so my answers to the follow-up questions will be exactly the same as the answers, my predecessor, Mr. Esben Lunde Larsen gave back in November. However, having said that, I do agree with Mr Seligman. Rasmus Prehn in that Aalborg University is exemplary when it comes to the progress of studies and that the students are complying with the study time and are thus finished within the prescribed time. And I certainly hope that Aalborg University will do what they can to maintain that. Then I am and here I am referring to my predecessor, just like Mr. Esben Lunde Larsen disagrees with Mr. Rasmus Prehn in that this is a punishment. That is not the case. What is the situation is that because of the re-prioritisation in this area, all institutions must, of course, contribute, and this also applies to Aalborg University. But that does not mean that it is a punishment. In other words, the fact that you as a public institution get a small amount of money to do good with is not a punishment. This means that we must manage within the financial framework that we have at our disposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316152032	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316152033	I had hoped that it was not just a change of person, but also a change of attitude. It is simply so difficult for me to understand that a Liberal Minister, a Liberal Minister, who usually has a drumming to make it pay to work, that it has to pay to make an extra effort and something else, suddenly changes the incentive. Then it may be that you do not punish, but that is how I experience it, and that is how Aalborg University experiences it. In any case, this encouragement to do something extra less, and the Minister himself has said so. Why is it that something in the incentive structure that is in this area is being removed? Does the Minister not fear that there is not the same incentive to tighten up and do something special, that is, when the government says: we will not reward those who do something special?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316152123	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316152124	The questioner now says that he is having difficulty understanding what is behind the change here, that is, the re-prioritisation that is taking place. I mean, I don't know, but it may also be very important to ask a questioner who basically disagrees that he should actually understand it. However, I do not agree that this is a minor incentive to maintain the good development that is at Aalborg University and the good results that they actually have at Aalborg University during the time that I do not agree with the questioner that this is a punishment of a public institution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316152213	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316152214	I hope, too, and I am convinced that Aalborg University will continue to do its utmost to make a highly qualified education and ensure that students are ready on time and can also get out and carry out the job functions they get on the labour market. But can the Minister not admit that there would have been other ways of saving where we do not go in and hit precisely these incentive structures? One could have chosen to make a more general saving, so that all universities should contribute a relative share, compared to how many students they have. Why has it not been chosen to make a fairer and more relative distribution instead of taking one university out and punishing them extra hard?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316152302	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316152303	Well, I do not agree that one university is being taken out, which is being punished extra hard. If you look at what is actually happening, the situation is that Aalborg University gets a relatively large share of the completion pool because they have good momentum. If you did it, as sir... Rasmus Prehn proposes, I am not actually sure that it would result in Aalborg University having a better situation than that which is actually the case. On top of the hat, as I explained in my very first reply, there is an increase in the completion pool.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316152348	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn. And thank you to the Minister. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 3, which is also for the Minister of Education and Research. And that is what Mrs Julie Skovsby of the Social Democrats has said.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316152355	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316152400	Thank you. In view of the fact that the government proposes to remove the possibility of SFU for employees with short higher education, cf. L 127, what initiatives will the Minister take to ensure that employees' opportunities for further training are supported?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316152424	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316152425	Thank you for the question. I look forward to the first reading of the Government's draft law on state adult education support, which will take place here in the Folketing tomorrow. Above all, however, the draft law does not alter access to continuing training for employees. Employees who have already completed higher education will also have access in the future to the same extensive supply of continuing training to which they have always had access. However, the tight financial framework makes it necessary for us to prioritise. The government has among other things: It has been decided to target the funds for the State's adult education support so that we use the funds where they do the most good. The groups most in need of support are those with least or no training. It is also the group originally intended for the scheme. The Government's bill specifically means that employees who have completed short-term higher education no longer have the opportunity to receive State adult education support. At the same time, the government proposes to reduce the rate of State adult education support for higher education from 80%. 60%. of the highest daily allowance rate. The Government proposes to maintain the possibility of State adult training support for employees with the least education, including for the upgrading of skilled to higher education. We propose this because continuing training is an important tool for quickly and efficiently upgrading the workforce. At the same time, the ongoing development of skills for staff at least training is an important competitive parameter. The State's adult education support was originally intended to upgrade basic and general skills for people with no or little training. Over the years, however, it has become apparent that the scheme has been used to a much greater extent than was originally intended for higher education. This also applies to persons who already have higher education. With the government's proposal, we again target support for the group originally intended, namely those with least or no training, of which skilled workers are qualified to a higher level. The government expects that employers and employees will also be able to see the benefits of investing in the necessary skills development in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316152658	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316152659	Thank you for your answer. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the Minister here in the Folketing. As you are new and come and look at it with fresh eyes, it is also possible to see whether the course that has now been set is also the right one. So when I now ask what new initiatives the Minister will take to ensure that employees' opportunities for further training are supported, according to the bill that will be first dealt with tomorrow, an obvious initiative is to withdraw L 127 from the ministry, look at the figures once again, go to his prime minister and his colleagues in the government, including perhaps especially the Minister for Business and Growth, and ask the simple question: Does Production Denmark really need savings on state adult education support? After all, we know that the shortage of labour with the right skills can have a major impact on the whole of the economy and, above all, on the growth of enterprises. I think it is a good idea that, as a skilled worker, you can build on your education, even while you are on the labour market. And it has to be the case that when we talk about education policy, it is a matter of raising unskilled people to the level of skilled workers, raising skilled workers to the level of KVU, thus raising our entire workforce. But it is also for the benefit of society. So I would like to ask what new initiatives the Minister will take.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316152857	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316152858	I must disappoint the questioner and say that, although there has been a change of person in the office of ministers, there has been no change in policy. I fully support what was adopted by the Finance Act, and that bill is the implementation of the Financial Law Agreement. And, of course, I stand for that on behalf of the government. What this is about for me is targeting and focusing resources so that we use them where, in my view, they are most needed, namely to raise those who have no education or maybe have the lowest education. That is where we need to take decisive action, and that is also where we know we can lift the most.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316152951	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316152952	I think people in politics make a difference. That's why I had a hope when you come and look at government policy with a fresh eye, looking at this Finance Act. This is one of the savings proposals. As the Minister says, it is a tight financial framework. Some priorities are set out in the Finance Act. One of the things you do is to give... Some tax reliefs and other things. This is not, of course, a priority that I agree with. I believe that we need to look at this in a wider perspective, namely that we in Denmark need a well-educated and qualified workforce for our production companies. And that is really where you can create even more jobs. Is the Minister not worried that we risk losing jobs when we downgrade continuing training?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316153055	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316153056	We will have the opportunity to discuss this a little more in depth tomorrow at first reading. However, I would just like to emphasise that for me, it is about ensuring that we focus on the target group originally conceived as the target group for state adult education support. That means, for example, that this is the case. It is about support for dyslexic education, it is about hf, hf individual subjects, it is about preparatory adult education, it is about primary school subjects, it is about general adult education, it is about those areas that can really help to raise those people who, in one way or another, did not gain a foothold in the education system, but who, of course, must have a chance to maintain or perhaps get a link with the labour market. So that's what this is about for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316153156	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316153157	After all, I see the possibility today that we can have a slightly larger perspective and not do what we are about to do tomorrow, when we first deal with the legislative proposal. So this is about thinking this bill into a bigger context and looking at the government's education and research policy together and seeing if we're going in the right direction. I see it as taking a step back with this bill. That's how I think a lot of people see it. I would just like to ask the Minister: what steps forward do they want to take?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316153231	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316153232	I shall try to repeat this once again: for me, this is about focusing on what was originally conceived as the target group and concentrating on the group which has no education, or which, if I may use that image, may be the lowest in the hierarchy of the education system. There we have the opportunity, even if we look at what is demanded of skills and qualifications, to raise a large group so that that group can maintain a foothold in the labour market. And that's what matters to me. Moreover, I find it strange to hear a Socialist in this way disregarding the fact that we have a major task here when it comes to providing the group of citizens with the necessary qualifications required in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316153327	We thank the questioner and thank the Minister. We move on to Question 4, which is addressed to the Minister with the long title of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, and the questioner is Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party
ParlaMint-DK_20160316153344	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316153349	Thank you for the floor, President. My question is: what is the Minister's position on realism in the Minister's own statements that: the Grimhøjmoské must be closed; how does the Minister intend to implement it; and does the Minister not think that when a minister speaks, it happens on behalf of the government, it commits, and it must stand up to believers?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316153409	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316153410	I stand by what I have said, and that was what I said that I would rather see the mosque closed. However, as I also said in the same breath, the more it takes to prevent these people from just moving somewhere else and then continuing to preach the crazy views that they have. That is why, as the Prime Minister said yesterday, immediately after Easter, he will invite all party leaders to a meeting of the Prime Minister's Office to start work with the church minister Bertel Haarder at the table with myself and other relevant ministers to try to find some real solutions to the challenges we face. I look forward to that very much. I am not here today with any quick solutions, nor do I believe that there are quick solutions to this problem either. But there will be follow-up and consequences, and so will there. However, this must be done wisely and, if our efforts are to have a positive effect, I believe that we must also take time to find solutions together. There is no doubt that we must have taken action against these very closed environments. We must take tough action against the darkened forces that unfortunately exist in Denmark and which do not respect either the freedoms or the values on which we have built Denmark. But it must be done in a way in which, of course, we do not set aside our democratic rules and where we do not suspect all Muslims across the board. But I have to say that what I have seen, among other things. in TV 2's revelations, is completely outside what you should be able to experience in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316153628	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316153629	I would like to begin my question by quoting the Minister: the Grimhøjmosque must be closed and imam Abu Bilal must be gone. It is then the Minister of Integration who speaks out. When I saw and heard that statement, I was truly happy. The usual thing, when there have been things and cases that came out, about the Grimmøjmoskeen • It is certainly not the first case • That politicians have queued up to express their contempt for the statements, and then it goes a week with it, and then the ordinary snitch talk, where you actually just talk such ordinary democratic small talk, which means that nothing will ever happen. That is why I am also disappointed that we are coming down here in the Chamber, where we are actually proposing that the Grimhøjmosque should be closed and that the government should then say that there is no idea of this. So I just ask, first of all, what is to be trusted? Is that the Minister's word, or is it just a private person, and can one, so to speak, commute between speaking as a private person and speaking as a minister? I think that's a bad thing, because then people get the idea that the government is going to do something about the problem, and then the government isn't going to do anything about shutting this mosque down anyway. And I think it is highly unsatisfactory that at some point we are not hammering on the nail's head, so to speak, and so to speak we are simply not going to put up with this. That is what I thought, that is to say, it was finally reached, that when the Minister said that the Grimhøjmosque had to be closed, it was in fact intended to act. And then it happens again that it ends in a lot of chatter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316153846	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316153847	First of all, I would like to say to Christian Langballe that it is of no use to quote only half of a sentence. Because what I said exactly was that I would like to see, and I would like to see that, the Grimhøjmosque razed to the ground, but the other thing here is that attitudes are still thriving and that is what we must have done about. It is of course no use to remove a mosque physically only if attitudes continue to flourish. That is what I said in the second part of the sentence, and I stand by it completely, I stand by both. And that is precisely why the Prime Minister has summoned the leaders of all the parties of the Danish Parliament to a meeting of the Prime Minister's Office right after Easter, where we can jointly, and this also applies to the Danish People's Party, make suggestions where we can sit and work with it, and hopefully we can get the spade bit deeper, which I certainly agree with Mr. Christian Langballe in that we should.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316153953	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316153954	I mean, the other day I was at a gathering where we got to talk about the Grimhøjmoskeen... it interests a lot of Danes, I'll just say hello and then I say: the mosque must be closed, but unfortunately we are the only ones who mean it in the Folketing. No one else is serious. It makes people express their astonishment: Well, hasn't the Left been out to say that the Grimhøjmosque should be closed? And that is all, it is a signal confusion, and I think a little, to be honest, that this is a double agenda, where on the one hand you say that the mosque must be closed, and then when we enter into negotiations here in the Folketing, you say: yes, yes, maybe it should, but we cannot do that anyway. And that's when it ends in democratic chatter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316154039	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316154040	Honestly, sir, I don't think so. Christian Langballe is quite fair compared to this. I stand by everything I've said. I would like to see the Grimhøjmoske closed, but it is of no use if the thoughts continue to thrive and if they imam, among other things. Abu Bilal, who also travels in the Grimhøjmoskeen, is still preaching these ideas, which are completely twisted and are so far away from the Danish set of values and the freedoms on which generations before us have built Denmark. So it owes Mr. Christian Langballe answers: What should you do about the fact that your mind is still thriving, but the building is not there? That's kind of the big problem with this. But I look forward very much to discussing that, both with Mr. Christian Langballe, hopefully, but at least with Mr. Langballe. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who was initially invited to a meeting of the Prime Minister's Office.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316154135	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316154136	It has nothing to do with bulldozers and that it is a building, it is the association itself that you shut down. And I have the basic view that there are some people out there waiting for the government to act on this issue and really take it seriously, and secondly, that it is the only language they here imams understand... so not circle teaching, but that it is said that we will not put up with this and that it translates into closing that mosque through the basic law. That's why the constitution clause is there... it's for you to be able to close such associations that stand against everything Denmark is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316154228	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316154228-2	We don't necessarily disagree, but sir. Christian Langballe just still owes away an answer to what Mr. Christian Langballe then will do so by the fact that the attitudes are still thriving. You can shut the mosque down, you can close the association, but you think Mr. Knox... Christian Langballe that Abu Bilal will change the complete mindset of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316154255	Thank you to the questioner and the Minister. We go to question 5, which is with the same crew.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316154303	Please, sir. Christian Langballe to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316154306	What is the Minister's position on realism in the Minister's own statements that there is no reason to keep the Grimhøjmoskeen open or leave imam Abu Bilal in the country, and since the Minister obviously does not want the said imam in Denmark, does the Minister have a concrete proposal on how to get out of the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316154332	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316154333	If you do not approve of basic Danish standards but want a different social order, then I would urge you to consider whether you should not settle somewhere else in the world. Unfortunately, there are plenty of countries where these thoughts thrive. It is a completely grotesque view of equal opportunities, or one could say: lack of equality when one accepts stoning, when one accepts that violence can take place against both women and children. That is what we have witnessed here recently through the hidden footage that TV 2 has shown. And it doesn't belong in Denmark at all. So I can only encourage the people involved to leave, and then they must preach these beliefs elsewhere. The questioner knows as well as I do that in a legal society like the Danish one we cannot simply throw people out of the country if they are Danish citizens. I have said that I would like to have a look at the basis for the imams that we have seen appearing on TV 2's broadcasts, and we can then look at what it looks like. However, as the Prime Minister has also stressed in Question Time as recently as yesterday, we in the government will do everything we can to stem the radical forces that we see in some of these mosques. It is both about looking at the supervision that is with the mosques, but of course also about the requirements of the religious environments that are in Denmark, and also about the requirements of the associations that represent them. Of course, this is also about building on the efforts that are already taking place, but I would just like to say that there are no proposals that are not welcome now. All suggestions are welcome. That is exactly why the Prime Minister has called the leaders of the Danish Parliament's parties to a meeting of the Prime Minister's Office right after Easter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316154552	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316154553	Well, now Abu Bilal evidently got citizenship in 2001 • Why don't we understand in the Danish People's Party. That is also why we have thought it necessary to tighten up, and fortunately so has been the case. However, we simply do not think that people with these attitudes should have citizenship. There are several ways to attack the problem, among other things. by examining whether these positions are there when persons apply for citizenship. We would think that was a step forward, that is to say, that we actually began to consider how many of Abu Bilal's types are on the citizenship bill. It was a long word to come to this and then take it really seriously. We have a declaration of loyalty which we sign, and the declaration of loyalty is aimed precisely at respecting the people's rule and fundamental Danish values, the constitution, etc. So I would like to ask: will the Minister go in the direction of saying that we should take this so seriously that we are actually starting to focus much more on the fact that Islamists who want the Danish people to go where the pepper grows should of course not have citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316154718	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316154719	It can be said that this is indeed a discussion that we have had, also in connection with precisely the granting of citizenship, not very long ago. So we have seen the discussion. I just want to say that I do not reject anything, I do not reject any proposals. I do not do that today, and I certainly do not, when we come to the PM's Office, where I hope in return, and I believe that the Danish People's Party, among other things. will make a series of suggestions. And I think we should look at it all, and I think we should look at it all without prejudice, that is, in the way that what must be the goal for us is to make up for what we can see is happening in some mosques in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316154802	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316154803	There is, in fact, a question which I thought was a shame that was not raised in the broadcast or the broadcasts about mosques behind the veil, etc. etc., and it was: What really stands highest, the Constitution or Sharia Law? There I have to say that it is my clear feeling that for types like Abu Bilal the Sharia law is simply far above the constitution, and that also dictates his view of Denmark. I would like to know whether it would be an idea to start thinking about whether types such as Abu Bilal, who in fact do not recognise, as it were, the very framework of the people's regime, should have renounced their citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316154850	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316154851	Well, now it's actually not that easy to dismiss citizenship. Christian Langballe better than anyone, in that Mr. Christian Langballe is actually chairman of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, that is to say the committee which grants citizenship. But having said that, I still think we should try to look at all the proposals that might come. When you see the broadcasts that we have witnessed, but also listen to the debate in general and discuss these things, also with some of the extreme forces we see here in Denmark, there is no doubt in my mind that unfortunately there are people in Denmark who in no way support the Danish set of values of freedom. There is no support for the Danish social model at all. The only thing you support is the benefit system in Denmark, and that is deeply problematic.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316154954	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316154955	Agreed. The reason why I am asking is that if you take section 44, where it says that citizenship is granted by law, that is that it is the Folketing that does so, it does not actually say anything about it, and it is also clear from the commentary on the basic law that I have that citizenship cannot be deprived of. It doesn't say anything about that. And it is actually mentioned in the comments that this can be legislated for if that is what you want. It does not say that, but it does not say that citizenship cannot be deprived of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316155035	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316155036	No, but we have still signed up to a number of international conventions which bind us and we can then have different views on that. But it must also be said that in some cases we have, of course, implemented the right to double citizenship, it is one of the things that actually makes it easier to take citizenship from certain people than has been possible so far. But we are bound by a series of international conventions that we have signed. And I recognise that there can be differences of opinion as to whether we should have done so and whether they should continue to be kept or broken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316155112	Thank you, sir. Christian Langballe for the effort. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 6, which is also for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, and that is from Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316155122	Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316155125	Thank you. And it sounds like this: The minister has said that she wants to have the Grimmøjmosque smoothed with the ground or closed, and how does the minister think it will happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316155138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316155139	As I have already clearly stated, I saw most of all that we razed the Grimhøjmosque to the ground and that the problem was then solved. But even though the questioner did not quote me in full, I have also said that, and I think that is part of the picture that unfortunately it is not, for attitudes would still thrive even if the mosque disappeared. That is the second part of the sentence that I said that day. But I stand by it all. On the one hand, the Constitution sets a framework which means that you cannot simply close a mosque. On the one hand, it is not the mosque in its physical form that is the problem, which I also discussed just now with Mr. Christian Langballe, who, by the way, he agreed with, as I understood it, but that the people behind the human vision and the values that they have would still be able to spread their completely insane attitudes. However, as the Prime Minister also stressed in the question hour yesterday, it is quite clear that we need to take action and we need to take action across a broad spectrum. I very much hope that the Danish People's Party will be a part of that, and I believe you will. Because we cannot live with the fact that we have closed environments in Denmark, which in this way in my view directly opposes Danish society and the set of values on which Danish society is based. And as I have already mentioned today, it is both about looking at the supervision and requirements of the religious environments that we have in Denmark and their associations. The fight against social control, including help for the women and children who get into trouble, and the efforts to de radicalise are already well under way. I think that much more can be done, and we must. However, I also believe that the work on the labour market and the fact that more people have to enter the labour market are very, very important. This is one of the things we have been united in introducing the benefits of integration. However, I believe that much more can be done, and I look forward to doing so, also with the Danish People's Party, just when we get on the other side of Easter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316155359	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316155401	We are also looking forward to the talks on radicalisation and on everything we have seen in connection with TV 2's documentary programmes, the four documentaries which have been quite horrific in themselves. It's not because everything's new. You've heard these rumors, you've heard some information in the past, but it's gotten to do something about it. Now you have evidence of everything you might have heard in the past, and you have new things on tape. We think that's really good work by TV 2. Then I would just like to say to what the Minister says: 'where there are also some sensible things among you that what is so important when new information comes to light on, for example. The Grimhøjmosque is that there is a change of behavior for the government that sits. In the past, we had a Social Democratic radical government that refused to close the Grimhøjmosque on the basis of the information that was then and which was ugly enough. Now we have new information, we have a new government which has the opportunity to close the mosque if you like and, of course, close the association which is behind it and which is why they have a mosque. When I hear the Minister say some of the very sensible things that are being said here, I think that things are going well along the way, but that there is a lack of action; that there is a lack of a conclusion which means that we are actually getting something done about the trends that we see in these mosques and which are also contributing to women being outside the labour market because they are in fact considered to be following the advice or demands of the man. That's also some of what's going on in the Grimhøjmosque. But could the Minister not answer: when the Minister and the government say here that you want to level the mosque with the ground, why would the Minister really bring the mosque to the ground if the thoughts do thrive elsewhere? I don't really understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316155617	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316155620	That is exactly what I was trying to say in my opening speech, namely that what I said that day was that I wanted most to level the Grimhøjmosque with the ground, but that we also had to recognise that the thoughts would still thrive, just elsewhere. That is what I hear today, including that of the Danish People's Party, and that is the conclusion which Mr von der Vring has drawn. Peter Skaarup is calling for, to which we must now work together, a conclusion on what we are doing about it. What do we do about attitudes like these? How do we get to the root of the nettle? For right here the picture with the nettle and the root may be very good, namely that it is no use just to cut off the top, i.e. the mosque itself and the association itself, because the thoughts will still thrive. So that's what it's supposed to be about when we get on the other side of Easter. I would just like to stress once again that I will not reject any proposals in advance. I think we should discuss this with the seriousness of the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316155731	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316155732	I would like to ask as a follow-up: what is it that prevents the Minister from closing the Grimhøjmosque? I'm having a hard time seeing it. If we now take section 78 of the Constitution, which I can quote from here, then we say in paragraph 78. 3: No association can be dissolved by government measure. However, an association may be provisionally prohibited, but proceedings must then be brought against it immediately for its dissolution. ▪ Then you go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. 4: • Seeking the dissolution of political associations must be subject, without special permission, to legal proceedings before the Supreme Court of the Kingdom. In fact, it is said in the Constitution that we are not meant to close associations, but that there may be associations that are so wild and greedy and crazy and we must say that the association behind the Grimmøjmosque is an example of how to do it anyway. And that is where the government must dissolve and ban the association in order to pursue a trial afterwards. Why don't you do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316155831	Before we go any further, I would like to remind you that the last two questions and answers are only 1⁄2 minutes. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316155838	Perhaps I do not think it is for us here in the Assembly today to stand here and make a legal statement, neither from Mr Vandemeulebroucke nor from the President-in-Office of the Council. Peter Skaarup's side, or on my side, about whether an association can be closed. And by the way, it's a job that would have to be done in the Ministry of Justice, that is, the legal work about this. But the interesting thing is not just whether you can close an association. What's interesting is how we get rid of these crazy thoughts and how we get rid of the completely twisted set of values on which some of these mosques are based, and which some of the imams are unfortunately preaching from.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316155925	There's a co-questioner. Sir. Christian Langballe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316155933	Dear Minister, this is talk. I don't need a long legal explanation of what's in those paragraphs. It says that the respective minister can close an association and then it has to go to court. If you don't mind, I'll answer something else. When you close an association, you make it clear that this will not help us not to put up with it in Denmark, and I would say that is the only language these imams can understand. For years politicians have distanced themselves, but the Imams know that nothing is happening, nothing is happening. You're at a distance, and what do you do after that? Then you back up and then you come to the democratic chatter and process discussion and everything else, and then nothing happens. The only thing they wanted to respect is that you actually went in and let this mosque and then told them, to the Danes, that we're not gonna put up with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316160042	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316160043	I just have to say that I still think that Mr. Christian Langballe lacks the answer to the second part of this, namely what we do about the fact that attitudes are still thriving. If we closed the Left today, I can say that I would still be a Liberal and a Left in my heart. So even if you closed the Left as party or association today, I would still be left. And if I'm to be completely honest, I actually believe that Abu Bilal, even if you close the Grimhøjmosque, will still have the attitudes that he has stood and preached, and which are completely incompatible with the Danish set of values. But I just think he still wants the opinions. That's kind of why we're going to go deeper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316160133	Sir. Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316160134	I totally disagree with that basic assumption. You can talk about these darkened imams and all sorts of things that they live in the Middle Ages and so on, but that is not true, because they completely understand our democratic system and they also understand how to milk it via different associations. They understand our basic positions, they understand politicians, and they also understand that politicians do not want to act. There are 31 mosques and imams that are out backing up the Grimhøjmosque. What's going on? Nothing! That's the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316160209	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316160210	If we closed the Danish People's Party as an association today, Mr. Christian Langballe then continue to have the attitudes that he has?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316160218	Thanks to the co-author. Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316160226	On the basis of what the Minister has said, including the answers to Mr. Christian Langballe, I think there is a risk of this, and I would like to hear the Minister say that as a minister you will have to create expectations for the citizens that actions will not happen when you say that I want to bring the Grimhøjmosque to an end, that you want to close the Grimhøjmoskeen, and you want to do what the Minister says. All means must be used, says the Minister. Is there not a risk that we will create expectations among the citizens that something is happening now, even if nothing is happening?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316160315	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316160316	Well, that also depends on the Danish People's Party. That depends on the joint work that we are now going to do, because I am not going to reject any kind of proposal at all. I think the seriousness of the matter speaks for itself, and that is precisely why we have to meet after Easter, and then everything has to be on the table. Then we will have to discuss the proposals that may then lie and, as I said, I reject nothing in advance. And if I am to be completely honest, I would like to see the Grimhøjmosque razed to the ground, and I would also like to see not only the Grimhøjmosque razed to the ground, but also the attitudes that unfortunately thrive there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316160357	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the next question on the agenda, Spm. No. S 805, tabled by Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316160403	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316160404	Speaking of which, the question is this: what initiatives will the Minister take on the basis of the information provided in TV 2's documentary programmes • The mosques behind the veil on extremism, the repression of women, bigami, social fraud and the fraud of public funds?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316160423	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316160430	What we have seen in TV 2's hidden footage in the mosques behind the veil is in every way unacceptable, yes, to say it as it is, it is terrible. Imamer, who teaches the stoning of women and guides women to stay with their violent husbands and calls for violence against children, is an expression of an absurd mindset that does not belong in any way here in Denmark. We already have a broad-ranging effort today, but we must do everything we can to do much more about it. We need to get to the root of the nettle, and we need to do much more to open up the otherwise very closed radical environments that we see. This was also emphasized by the Prime Minister at Question Time yesterday. We in the government will do everything we can to stem the radical forces that we see. It acts among other things. to look at the supervision and requirements of the religious environments and their associations. It is also about building on the efforts that are already taking place against social control and, of course, continuing the fight to prevent radicalisation. Finally, it is a question of making very clear demands that everyone should be on the labour market. Because I actually believe that being on the labour market also means getting an understanding of Danish values. Of course, you also acquire the language, but you also get Denmark under your skin. Last but not least, of course, we have to deal with the children and young people. They need to know their rights. They need to know where they can get help, for example. grow up in a violent family, but they also need to know what we expect of them as good citizens of Denmark. So in other words, all means must be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316160640	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316160641	I think it sounds very good that the government is prepared to use every means to counter what is being done by extremes in Denmark in order to indoctrinate the environments where the mosques are, and therefore we in the Danish People's Party can only welcome that the government will do some things. What I want to say is that it is also urgent. It is important to do so, and it is important that some results come out of it. There must be consistency between what you say and what you do, and there I cannot help thinking about what we have discussed before, where you jump up a little like a lion and fall down like a lamb, that is to say you say that you want to level a mosque with the ground and that you want to close a mosque, and that does not happen. There I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on whether there is no risk that the Danes will actually see everyone jumping up like lions but falling down like lambs, and whether, if the government does what everyone else does and has done in the past in such a case as this, there is a risk that it will not move anything and that the imams involved in these mosque environments see it as a free round that does not actually meet the resistance that these environments should face. And in this context, I would like to ask the Minister about the reaction that we see from the spokesmen of these mosques and imams, the 31, who in fact concentrate solely on the issue that they see in relation to journalisticism, in other words how they have obtained the various information from TV 2, instead of apologizing and complaining and saying that they will change their behaviour from day one. Is it not a problem and it is also a trend seen in other countries that these environments are increasingly becoming so self-evident and that they are given so much sovereignty because of weak authorities that they think they can behave completely as they please?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316160848	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316160849	I think it is absolutely disgraceful to see the reaction of 31 imams and associations to good journalistic work in my view. Unfortunately, I cannot even say that I was so really surprised, but I thought it was shameful to see their reaction. In relation to the other, I can just say that something is supposed to happen, but it is based on the fact that we all want to. Now, I do not doubt that the Danish People's Party would like to participate, but you can be more in doubt when you come to the left side of the Assembly Hall. But it's supposed to be hard on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316160932	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316160933	Then it is fortunate that the Folketing is composed in a way that the electorate has decided, where there are opportunities to obtain a majority with some parties bypassing some of the parties that have been responsible for a very liberal immigration policy over the years. And I would like to ask whether the government is prepared to use the majority of the Left, the Conservatives, the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party to do what needs to be done without waiting for any other parties to join the car. That is one question. The second question is again in relation to the Grimhøjmoskeen. I see it as a little as if we allow the arsonist to continue his work, just somewhere else, if it is that we do nothing here. Can the Minister not see that there is a problem and that there must be consistency between what you say and what you do?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161024	Speaking time must be observed, it is 30 seconds. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161027	There must also be consistency between speaking time and time spent. In fact, I do not think we are so disagreeable, but I think it would surprise me if we had a lot of disagreements about this. I think it is time for something to happen and I think it is time for us to go deeper than we have been in the past. That is not to say that I reject everything that has happened before, because I believe that very good has been done, including in the work on de-radicalisation and prevention and such things, but I am just not sure that it can stand alone. But that's kind of why we're meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161108	Thank you, Minister. There's a co-questioner. Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161114	What I just hope is not going to happen is that it is expected that if you send Abu Bilal away for a high school stay, he will jump out as a peace angel and a super-democrat. What I just find problematic and, frankly, as I think the Minister is derailing the debate is saying that if it were the Danish People's Party. We're over in something else quite different. We are over in some people who know the Western system and who actually distance themselves from the basic values of what has built the Denmark legally and in terms of value in which we live. It is people who simply know that they are opposed to Western values. And there I just think that the only thing that works isn't circle teaching, but that you use the hammer, that you say: we won't put up with this. And I would also like to say that if you can close a religion that says something, you can close a new association that says the same thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161218	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161220	Now it was actually the case that I started with an example of myself and the Left. If the Left were closed, would I still have the liberal basics that I have? Yeah, I wanted that. Even if our headquarters in Søllerød were closed, I would still have exactly the same opinions. That's pretty much it. And then it is true that I mentioned the Danish People's Party as another example and I do not think that they are so far apart. But I don't know if Mr. Christian Langballe has heard that I have rejected any proposals today. At least I haven't heard it myself. And that is precisely because we mean something about the work that needs to be done, with all the parties of the Folketing. Then we'll see how the ends can reach together and if they can reach together. That is certainly a precondition for not rejecting anything in advance, and I certainly have not done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161311	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161312	I would just like to say that now there is a lot of talk about the rule of the people and that all attitudes must thrive there, but the rule of the people is basically based on the people's confidence that those they have set to rule our country do so too. And if there is disappointment and distrust as a result of the fact that politicians actually cannot do anything, that we are all impotent, then it will in fact be very, very damaging to our people's rule. They expect us to act, and I certainly hope that the Minister and the government will do the same in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161353	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161355	Yes, we must act, but we must do so together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161408	Thanks to the co-author. Sir. Peter Skaarup at the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161416	I must admit that it still provokes me a little, that the Minister is taking so lightly the place that TV 2 has revealed is behind many of the extremist things we have seen, namely the Grimhøjmosque. I would like to use that picture with the Minister, which I tried before, with regard to the arsonist association. Let us say that a pyromaniac society has emerged in a place that teaches its members how to set fire to houses. Then it is that the Minister says in his logic that yes, it does not work, such a place should be leveled, but you will not do that anyway, because then they will just go on somewhere else. Can a society live with that? Can a society say that if we close somewhere, they'll just keep going elsewhere, and then it doesn't matter? Or should we take action wherever it may be, in the Grimhøjmosque or anywhere else where these associations are located?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161507	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161509	I just think it is right to ask this counter-question: how will Mr. Peter Skaarup then ensure that attitudes do not continue to thrive? And yes, I'd rather the Grimhøjmoske leveled to the ground. I really saw that. But we also have to deal with the reality that attitudes will continue to be there. Attitudes will continue to thrive. So I actually think we're gonna have to go deeper into this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161538	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. The next question is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161546	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161557	Thank you. What integration initiatives will the government take in the wake of TV 2's revealing documentary series • The mosques behind the veil?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161600	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161603	As I have already mentioned in various ways in replying to questions 795, 804 and 805, what we have seen in TV 2's broadcasts is totally unheard of in Denmark or ought to be, for now it has been heard. But it's unheard of that these attitudes are thriving. As I have said, we have already made a broad-ranging effort today, but we can and must do even more precisely to open up the otherwise very closed environments that are at stake. It was also emphasized by the Prime Minister yesterday at Question Time that we are going to do it on the part of the government, and we are going to do everything we can to stem the radical forces we have witnessed. It is both a question of looking at the supervision and requirements of the religious environments and their associations, and it is also a question, as I have already mentioned, of building on the efforts that are already taking place in the area of social control, and among other things. also reach out to the women and children who get stuck. It is also about how we can prevent radicalisation and how we can create a much better link with the labour market. This is something which, in my view, is absolutely central, particularly in the two-party and tripartite negotiations that are currently under way. Then I would like to finish by saying to all the ordinary Muslims who are also in Denmark that we support you. We support the fact that in Denmark people can easily live their lives in a country with freedom of religion, believe in the very god they want, stand up, do their job, attend their education, take part in leisure activities. These are the ones we have to back up, and we do. The second is to take a hard look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161812	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161813	I think the Danes lack political leadership. I think the Danes miss politicians who say something and then do it. One of the things that has pleased me with the Minister has been that the Minister has been very quick to say that we should bring the Grimhøjmosque to the ground. I fully agree with the Minister. That is also why I do not understand why we need to have so much talk, why we need to have so long a wait, why we cannot get into business. Wouldn't the Minister like to bring that mosque to the ground?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161847	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161848	Well, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen has to answer whether Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen believes that attitudes will still thrive. Thinks sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, that Abu Bilal still wants the same opinions, even if the association is closed, and even if the house is razed to the ground?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161907	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161908	Well, now it is the author's privilege to ask questions, and it is the Minister's privilege to answer them. What TV 2's documentary revealed was not new. It's been going on for years. Many attempts have been made, in a good sense, to make the best of it. But the question is whether the time has not come for us to send some very, very clear signals, as the Minister himself has said: Even the mosque with the ground, take the spoon into the other hand. You have to send a clear signal that enough is enough. Why doesn't the minister want to?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316161942-2	Well, as I've said, the reason why we're meeting in the PM's Office now is so good enough, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who was initially invited to the meeting, is precisely that we should discuss all the proposals that might lie. But I'm also just saying that it's important that you go deeper into this, so that we get rid of the attitudes that otherwise characterise the mosques in question, so that we get rid of the set of values that are so incompatible with Danish values and with Danish society and with Danish traditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162026	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the author. The next question is, no, sorry, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen has one more question. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162040	It's okay, no problem. I think the wise people who at the time formulated the constitution have been very forward-looking because they wrote Section 78 into it, which gives us some very special opportunities to crack down on these associations. But what I would like to ask the Minister is: if you can't use § 78 in this context, how bad should it be before you can use § 78? How much can one afford to want to wrap around Danish society before there are powerful politicians or lawyers who think that now we can use § 78? Well, I think that the wise people who made the constitution wrote Section 78 into it just because they were foresightful. But I simply cannot come up with any examples of how bad things should be before we can use that paragraph, for example. To level that mosque with the ground.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162131	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162133	As I have said before here today, I do not think that two non-lawyers like us should be going through a major legal assessment of the basis of Article 78 of the Constitution. I think we should leave that to others.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162153	Then we thank the Minister and thank the honourable Member. We are jumping to question 14, and the next question is Mrs Lea Wermelin with questions to the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162213	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162215	The question is: Does the Minister believe that the nitrogen accounts presented by Eva Kjer Hansen to the Danish Parliament in answer to Question No. S 426, is correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162235	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162237	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the question. As stated by the former Minister for the Environment and Food, Eva Kjer Hansen, during the consultation on 23 February 2016, the presentation of the assumptions behind the nitrogen accounts in the above table was not optimal, as the assumptions could not be read out of the table itself. The aim of the table was to illustrate that the implementation of the measures in the food and agriculture package is possible without measurable decline in coastal waters and that the package can therefore be implemented within the framework of the EU directives. Several of the researchers who took part in the consultation of the Committee on the Environment and Food on the package on 23 February expressed the same view that the package would not lead to a measurable decline. It is clear from the law of fertilization that a professional and legal assessment must be carried out prior to the issue of the Order, which relaxes the standards. The legal assessment is based on the technical assessments already made, which are transmitted to the Danish Parliament today. The legal assessment shows that, on the basis of an overall balance sheet, the agreement on the food and agriculture package is within the scope of the EU directives. It also appears that there is a risk that the Commission might judge the situation differently, in which case the parties to the agreement will be called for a discussion of the implementation model. We can never get a completely accurate picture of what is going to happen, and it is also clear from the legal assessment that there are uncertainties linked to the assessment. Those are the conditions when major changes are to be made, and I believe that, overall, we have a well-informed basis for decision-making.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162420	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162421	Thank you. Now it's no secret that this is a case that has filled not so little. Well, that's one of them. That is why we have a new minister. I was actually hoping that a new minister would also mean that somehow we went a little more honestly to this. Now the Minister himself mentioned the hearing we held, where there were a large number of experts, and they said quite unanimously that they could not use the way in which the table was calculated here, as it is all about. Several of them also said so, but I think the Minister knows these too. Last week the Prime Minister was also in Question Time where he said, and I quote: it is obvious that the package will lead to more nitrogen in a 3-year period. So there has been a whole series of discussions on precisely the table which shows nitrogen emissions. So I would really like to ask, in relation to what the Minister has just said, whether we can expect the Minister to send a more accurate table showing the consequences of the agricultural package without the so-called 'baseline', which the researchers also quite rightly said could not be taken into account. And then I would actually like to ask, in relation to the quote by the Prime Minister I mentioned, whether the Minister agrees that there will be an increase in nitrogen emissions as a result of the agricultural package in the years 2016-2018, if the baseline effect is not taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162558	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162600	Thank you. I agree with the Prime Minister, and I do not think I can pass on a more accurate form as such, because there is, after all, a form which has been drawn up and which is included in the dossier. This can be understood in various ways. I acknowledge that it can and therefore there has also been a debate about it. I have also said at the time of my accession that I do not contribute to the writing of history, because many things have happened, and I myself have not been part of it right at the table, and therefore it would be wrong for me to botanise further in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162637	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162639	But this isn't about botanizing. This whole case is about giving correct information to the Folketing. That is also why we are asking about it, even though a new minister has arrived. It is, of course, because we are interested in the fact that the legislation we are making here in the Folketing is based on correct information. That is why I am surprised that the Minister is now rejecting it. Is that how I should understand it? Nor do I think that the Minister has answered my question before, namely whether the Minister will confirm that there is an increase in nitrogen emissions as a result of the agricultural package in the years 2016-2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162716	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162717	It is my view, as Minister, that correct information has been provided as a prerequisite for the adoption of the law. Otherwise, it would not have been justifiable to adopt the law. So it is my view that correct information has been given to the Folketing. The fact that information is understood differently, I acknowledge, and there is every reason for this, that we too are politically different places. However, I believe that correct information has certainly been given to the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162752	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162753	It is just a pity that the Minister does not at the same time recognise that all researchers who have dealt with this table also say that it is not a question of understanding it differently, but that it is a question of there not being the green plus that the previous minister kept saying that there was in relation to the agricultural package. I think it is quite fair, as the Minister also says, that we are from different parties and may have different views on things, but you have to stand by the policy that you have. So I would just like to ask again, because I still do not think the Minister is replying: Can the Minister not confirm that the agricultural package leads to an increase in nitrogen emissions in the years 2016-2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162834	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162835	I can confirm that there are different views on the effect of this. Researchers have also expressed this, but they have also made it very clear that over the entire period this should not happen. Well, it can happen in the first years, but not in the total period. Everyone has recognized this; the diversity may exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162900	Thank you to the questioner and the Minister. The next question is again Mrs Lea Wermelin, with a question for the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162908	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162909	The question is: how much does the Minister think a green supplementary package for the food and agriculture package should have and how many tonnes of nitrogen should be picked up before it is enough for the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162919	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162920	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the question. I do not think there is any need to create an additional package.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162926	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316162928	That's very interesting, because it's filled up a lot. It's not something I made up. Among other things: The Prime Minister wrote on his Facebook that a supplementary package would be negotiated, so I quote:... we can at the same time give the food cluster better conditions of competition with respect for nature and restore confidence between the parties, the members of parliament and the ministers of the blue family. ▪ Does the Minister not agree with the Prime Minister that there is a need for further green measures to ensure that the agricultural package has respect for nature, or how should we understand the Prime Minister's quote in relation to the Green Additional Package? After all, it is no secret that we do not think that the agricultural package is green enough, and that is why we are interested in the Minister taking the initiative to restore the green balance that is lacking in the agricultural package. So I am actually surprised that the Minister is now saying that there is no need for a green supplementary package. Are we to understand that it has been completely removed from the table and that no further initiatives will be negotiated in the context of the nature package? Because it's the way I've heard it before.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163032	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163034	I have signalled very clearly that a natural package must be negotiated. The parties that form part of the agricultural and food agreements have legalised the creation of a package of nature for them to negotiate. I have said that those parties are welcome to present the wishes they may have to a natural package, and this can go from increased biodiversity to nitrogen reduction measures. I have done nothing about it, either the minimum or the maximum, and that is the work that will be going on now as a result of the adoption of the food and agriculture package.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163109	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163111	But it is also the case that the nature package also before this whole matter, where it became very clear that the environmental accounts in the agricultural package were made up, at least according to the researchers we are leaning on, and in which it has also become clear afterwards that it was not clear what the consequences of the agricultural package were supposed to be negotiated regardless of what. Now the Minister says that these could be all kinds of initiatives. After all, you have set up an amount in relation to this nature package that the government is interested in using. So I would actually just like to hear: do we have to understand that the supplementary package does not go on top of that, that there will be no further initiatives beyond that amount?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163151	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163155	Thank you for the question. In any case, we have to deal with the fact that when negotiations are called for, a framework will be laid down for those negotiations, including an economic framework, and we are sure of that in the parties that are going to negotiate the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163208	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163210	That is a pity, because I have to understand that the Minister does not want the Social Democratic Party to be involved. We'd like that now. However, I do not think that we are going to make much progress, and unfortunately not in relation to the agricultural package's accounts either. Now, the Minister mentioned this earlier about the announcement, that is to say, the Fertilizer Order, and in that the Minister himself grabbed it, I would actually just like to ask it because, as I have seen it, it had just not arrived, and I understood it as if the Minister were saying it was coming today. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163244	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163248	I would like to say that I have already had a meeting with the working environmental rapporteur of the Socialists, Mr. Simon Kollerup, and I have said that all the input to the negotiations is welcome. Now it is just the case that the agreement is provided for in the food and agriculture package with the parties that concluded that agreement, and I know that the Socialists are not part of it. But we would really like to hear from the Socialists what they might have done, because there might have been some good things in our pockets that we could also benefit from in relation to nature. Then I just want to confirm that yes, it has been sent to the Folketing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163328	Thank you to the questioner. The next question is Mr. Kaare Dybvad to the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163337	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163338	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that the seven researchers who took part in the hearing in the Committee on the Environment and Food on 23 February 2016 were right when they unanimously indicated that with their professionalism they could not support Eva Kjer Hansen's statements that the food and agriculture package provides a green plus in 2016, 2017 and 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163402	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163403	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. First of all, I would like to put an end to the misunderstanding that the food and agriculture package in isolation, in other words in isolation, must provide a green plus in the first few years. The measures in the package must be seen in conjunction with the changes we expect in the future nitrogen intake to the aquatic environment, the so-called baseline, and I note that several of the researchers in question indicated that they do not expect a measurable deterioration in the aquatic environment, regardless of whether one way or another is calculated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163443	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163444	It is then on some other occasions that the Minister has heard the scientists, at least in relation to what I have heard. At the hearing in the Committee on the Environment and Food, Professor Jørgen E. Olesen said that as a result of the agricultural package there will be clearly increased emissions for the first four years. Now I have had the pleasure of seeing the Minister in his former role as minister of the scientific field, and he, at least as I remembered the Minister, had great respect for the scientific work, and I would like to know whether that respect for the work of science is also reflected in this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163529	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163530	It certainly does, and I can confirm that. Therefore, I can also quote what Jørgen E. Olesen among others. I think this will give rise to a slight increase in emissions over the first few years, so what I also said in isolation. How they spread out in years, I don't know. I very much doubt that at any point this can be measured out there because of this leveling. Sir. Flemming Møhlenberg from DHI also attended the hearing and he said: The increases that could be, perhaps up to 8%, in discharge, will completely drown this year to the year-variation, driven by variations in meteorology. It is therefore necessary to focus on the long-term perspective. I hope that answers about how the government understands what has also been said at the hearing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163612	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163613	Yes, I think that is a very correct term to use in this context. I would just like to refer to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, who said in the course of the same hearing and the subsequent consultation that it was 100 percent and irrefutable that the consequences of the agricultural package have not been properly presented to the public and the Folketing. Does the Minister agree with Mr. Rasmus Jarlov's interpretation of that question?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163643	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163644	I kind of agree with both of you. Rasmus Jarlov and Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen. On the basis of the material presented, both voted in favour of the adoption of L 68. And I agree with the conclusion that after a few years the package will reduce the annual nitrogen load. I do not want to go into historical discussions of one particular table... I have also been asked that by a questioner earlier today... because it could easily have been presented better. I note that we have a number of researchers' statements at the hearing that the relaxation of the package in the first few years will hardly bring about measurable changes in water quality. The basis for L 68 and the forthcoming announcement, which has been sent out today, are therefore in order in my and the government's optics.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163727	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163728	Thank you for your answer here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163733	Thank you to the questioner. The next question is again, sir. Kaare Dybvad with a question for the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163739	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163740	Does the Minister believe that there is a need for a green supplementary package that picks up the environmental bill left by the food and agriculture package in 2016, 2017 and 2018, compare the opinion of the researchers at the hearing in the Committee on the Environment and Food on 23 February 2016?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163758	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163758-2	Thank you for the question. As I replied to Mrs Lea Wermelin earlier, I do not think that an additional package should be put in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163808	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163809	I still had some doubts, because the Prime Minister said during Question Time on 1 March, and I quote: "Does this mean that this government should not do anything else to deal with agriculture and nature? No, of course not. Then he specifically pointed out that the government will make a great nature plan. Now, of course, there is a difference between a green supplementary package and a large nature plan, but does this nevertheless mean that, when you do not recognise the need for a green supplementary package, then at least you recognise the need for a bill, an uncovered natural need, because of this package?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163855	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163856	Thank you for the question. At the time of the government's accession, when the desire for a food and agriculture package was launched, a natural package was also launched. Because we want to promote biodiversity. We have tabled a motion for a resolution on more untouched forests. We want to protect nature and the environment on a wide range of fronts. That is one of the points we address in the negotiations on a natural package, as I also answered Mrs Lea Wermelin earlier. The government has an ambition to increase the diversity of our nature, the availability of our nature, give a boost to the whole of nature. We can balance that with a food and agriculture package, and that is the debate that is going on before that very long.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163942	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316163942-2	Thanks for the future music. However, I would like to quote Professor Kaj Sand-Jensen, who says that in 2021 we will have a very large unsolved effort need and that it will be completely impossible to achieve the objectives in relation to our aquatic environment by 2027. There are not so many years until 2021, and I would like to know if this great nature plan is simply in place and has been effective by then.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164020	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164021	Thank you for the question. There is no doubt that the government has a clear ambition to be able to deliver something in this whole area. What is important, of course, is that some of the initiatives that are being taken have very, very long periods of effect, which are as long as ten years in terms of results, for example. our groundwater and the like. That is why it is difficult to relate to a forecast for 2021-2027, but it is clear that the government is doing so, that with the actors who are in the whole field, we constantly take stock of the development of our environmental, water and nature efforts, and these are also some of the discussions we are taking with the Commission, in relation to whether we as a nation comply with the directives that we have to comply with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164103	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164104	Yes, 10 years is a long time, but compared to 2027 it should be possible to do just that. However, we can certainly, and this is the question, be calm in the Minister's statement that we are complying with the aquatic environment requirements that will be imposed on us in 2017 and that we will not have a problem like what Kaj Sand-Jensen is concerned about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164131	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164131-2	Thank you for a good and relevant question. In other words, it is the Government's ambition that we deliver what we have to do in relation to the requirements imposed by the directives. That is why I have handed over a decree with both an environmental and legal professional basis that meets what is our understanding of the directives. Then the Commission can have a different understanding, and that is the discussion that will be between a nation state and the Commission at intervals when there is legislation that the Commission either looks at or disagrees with or what it may be. The same goes for this area. But it is absolutely the Government's ambition to comply with the directives that exist. Should we be required to do things, we will discuss them with the Commission, and we will, of course, look at it, in the event that something might have to be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164219	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the author. I have to inform you that those of Pernille Schnoor under No. 18 and No 19 questions put to the Minister for Employment are deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. As has already been announced, Question No 1 is also taken into account. 20 and 21 deleted. The next question is therefore Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen with questions to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164244	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164247	Thank you. Can the Minister give a guarantee that the introduction of the ceiling on cash benefits will not lead to further postponements of the housing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164255	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164256	Thank you for the question. With the bill, we will strengthen the economic incentive to work so that more people will become part of the working community and fewer people will receive public support. It has been essential for the government and the parties to the agreement to strike the right balance between a reasonable level of dependency and a real economic incentive to work. With the ceiling on cash benefits, a couple on cash benefits with three children will have just over DKK 15,000. available per month after tax and fixed housing costs, or equivalent to approx. 406,000 kr. in total public benefits and pre-tax subsidies per year, when looking at the standard family types. It is therefore also my clear opinion that if you have regular rents and make the necessary priorities in the household budget, you can make things stick together and stay here. I would like to point out that the ceiling on cash benefits is set in such a way that if you have an income from work, there will be room below the ceiling to receive housing aid and any special support. I believe that the draft law has found a fair balance so that there is a healthy economic difference between being on cash benefits and being in employment at the minimum wage fixed by the agreement. At the same time, however, it is clear that greater economic priority is required in everyday life if the ceiling on cash benefits is affected as a recipient of cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164431	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164433	Of course, I thank you for your answer. It is always a pleasure to discuss with the Minister. I know the Minister's answer. The minister looks at these sums of money and thinks that you have plenty of money to sit in the homes. But I just have to deal with all the consultation answers that have been. And I also have to deal with the figures that are actually correct and that we know. In the '00s, when the last ceiling on cash benefits was created, it happened that the number of postponements from housing actually increased. Then the Social Democratic led government came and removed this cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule, and then it happened that the number of postponements dropped, and it fell by almost 28%. When this happens, when the number of deferrals increases when you make a cash benefits ceiling and falls when you remove it, I just have to ask the Minister if it does not look like a drawing that the cash benefits ceiling actually has an effect on the number of deferrals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164542	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164544	It is clear that if you go down in income, there is a greater need to prioritise your expenditure. And in relation to the information to which the questioner refers, we should of course be aware that there is a challenge in the implementation of the ceiling on cash benefits. The individual may be aware of this, and the municipalities and housing companies may be aware of this, but with the small corrections actually made to the benefits, in relation to the total income of employees for collective pay, the corrections should not in themselves give rise to delays.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164623	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164624	Once again, I hear the Minister completely rejecting the fact that the cash aid ceiling of the '00s' had any effect on the number of postponements, that is to say that it increased, and thus that the ceiling on cash aid that is now being set will lead to more delays.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164642	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164643	I am not rejecting anything, because I have no basis for assessing what caused an increasing number of postponements in the 00s. But what I am pointing out is that now we know what we are doing and we have the tools to help those people who may have priority problems, because we know that delays often lie behind complex reasons. But both housing companies and municipalities now know what we will hopefully decide tomorrow and can therefore take stock of it and help those people who may have problems with prioritising.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164720	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164721	So if the minister can see that you're getting smarter in the long run... that this gives you more delays, is the minister ready to withdraw the cash benefits ceiling again?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164736-2	No, I'm not ready to withdraw the cash benefits ceiling. I think it is a necessary correction to make so that we have a reasonable link between collective pay and the highest levels of income in the cash benefits system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164756	Thanks to both the minister and the questioner. The next question is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen with a question to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164803	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164804	Thank you very much. If the Minister finds that it is okay that a woman with disabilities, who has been 25 years on cash benefits, has had 13 work tests, is a spastic with extensive cognitive problems due to her illness and is a single-parent, loses more than DKr 2 000. net per month of availability due to Dansk Folkeparti and the government's savings on cash aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316164829	It is the individual municipality that is responsible for organising the active effort and helping the individual citizen back into the labour market. And it is also the individual municipality that is responsible for assessing, for example, whether or not there is a risk that the local authority will be involved. should be implemented with a view to strengthening the ability to work or determining whether an early retirement pension should be granted to the citizen. I cannot go into a specific case, but I would like to repeat what the purpose of this bill is. With the bill, we will strengthen the economic incentive to work so that more people will become part of the working community and fewer people will receive public support. We do, among other things. with a ceiling on cash benefits, which puts a ceiling on the total amount of cash benefits, housing benefits and special support available. And we're not cutting the cash benefits that the questioner uses. It has been crucial for the government and the parties to the agreement to strike the right balance between a reasonable level of dependency and a real economic incentive to work. With the ceiling on cash benefits, a single provider of cash benefits with three children will have approx. 12,800 kr. available amount per year; month after tax and fixed housing expenses, or the equivalent of just under DKK 282,000. in total public benefits and pre-tax subsidies per year, when considering the standard family benefits. I think this is a reasonable level when you consider that cash benefits are a temporary benefit. If you are more permanently unable to work at all, you should not be in the cash assistance system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316165000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316165001	The right balance was said. Now, for example, we have. This example, Lonni, who wants to work but can't. There's a reason she's had 15 work tests. There's a reason she's spent 25 years on cash benefits. Of course, the Minister cannot go into a single matter, and I fully understand that, but Lonni is just a very good example of someone who very much wants to, but cannot, and who never comes to what it looks like. Even sir. Joachim B. Olsen stood up and said he didn't think she was gonna get started. Then I guess there's something about it when he says it. I just have to ask you that. For these people, there are a lot of them. There are many people who would like to, but there are also just many people who can't because they have a disease, a disability, somebody else whether it's innate or not. That's just why I have to ask again: how is this going to work, taking money from these people, if that's not why they're where they are? How's that gonna work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316165109	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316165110	The ceiling must apply to all those who are on cash benefits, so that you get the logical distance from collective pay. However, we also believe that we should have created a much greater dynamism in the cash aid system, so that the increase in the number of cash aid recipients we have seen in recent years ends and that people either gain a foothold in a working community or receive treatment in relation to the challenges they face personally or in family terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316165145	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316165146	So that is to say, the Minister thinks it is right to take some money from the ready to act, that is to say to take money from people who cannot work and who do not come to it, even if you take money from them because they have other problems than that. Does the Minister think that's right?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316165202	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316165203	If there is no prospect of having someone or being able to work, then you should not be on cash benefits. But if it is so that, regardless of whether you are ready for activity, a working capacity can be found, then what can be done must be done to enable this perhaps small working capacity to be activated in a few hours a week. This in itself will strengthen the individual recipient of cash benefits and also strengthen the economy following the introduction of the ceiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316165234	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316165235	But then I would like to raise my hand to the Minister. For we ourselves were involved with the Left in making the cash benefits reform in 2013-14, and there are then some out there now, who might not be where they are, for example. This is Lonnie. That's where the minister says it might be. Couldn't the Minister call the parties again so we can clean this up? And then the Minister could simply wait with this bill until we have made sure that it is the right places. Isn't that the right way to do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160316165310	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316165311	If the legislative proposal is adopted at the third reading tomorrow, I believe that the comments have already taken account of the issue, because it is in the comments that people on cash benefits must have the help they need and that we will follow the municipalities and advise the municipalities closely and evaluate it as soon as there is an evaluation basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316165333	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the author.
ParlaMint-DK_20160316165339	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 17 March 2016, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
