ParlaMint-DK_20160428100011	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Minister for Health and the Elderly (Sophi Løhde): Bill no. L 184 (Proposal for a Law amending the Health Act, Law on the Authorisation of Healthcare Professionals and Various Other Laws) The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From a member of the Danish Parliament, Roger Matthisen, who is on leave, I have received notification that from 3 May 2016 he can again meet in Tinget. Nikolaj Amstrup's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428100055	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428100121	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428100150	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428100213	Thank you, Madam President. The bill that we are going to deal with here is part of a comprehensive legislative package in which the Danish Labour Damage Agency's tasks with the handling of personal injuries are transferred to the newly created institution, Labour Market Insurance. The main proposal was actually adopted here in Parliament at the beginning of the week, on Tuesday, and, as I said, we are positive. Furthermore, today's draft law means that the handling of personal injuries in Greenland is also transferred to the Labour Market Insurance. However, it is assumed that the task solution will continue in Nuuk. The Socialists are generally in favour of the proposal, but as we have also mentioned at the first reading of the main proposal, we have a number of general questions and concerns which we want to clarify in committee. This concerns, among other things: a guarantee that the transfer of tasks will not adversely affect processing times; the question that relocation to central centres should not be financed by fewer employees and therefore longer processing times; and the concern that labour market security should have both a decision-making authority and an appeal unit under the same hat. In addition, we also believe that, in the context of this bill, we should look at some of the consultation answers that have come from the Greenland Workers' Associations. With those comments, I can say that the Socialists are looking forward to the further work in committee on the legislative proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428100353	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428100400	L 152 is, after all, an expiry of L 140 and L 141, which we were third-read in this Chamber on Tuesday. It is about moving jobs throughout Denmark and will mean that the Danish Labour Damage Board and several agencies are moved from the capital. This is something that we in the Danish People's Party fully support. This also means that the tasks of the Danish Labour Injuries Authority are transferred to the self-employed institution of the labour market and that the occupational disease insurance system is abolished. In order for it to work in Greenland and to ensure that those who need it can get the processing and payment they are entitled to, we therefore have this legal treatment of L 152, which will ensure that there is and remains a department in Nuuk, which we in the Danish People's Party see as an entirely natural part of the merger and dismantling of various regimes. The bill has been submitted to the various stakeholders in Greenland for consultation, and the consultation answers that come in will be looked at so that everyone can see the sense and take ownership of this bill. With these few comments, as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, I should like to say that we support L 152.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428100526	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428100535	Thank you. In the autumn, the government and the Left introduced an ambitious plan for the relocation of state jobs to ensure a better balance in Denmark. The plan is ambitious in that we will end the distortion experienced by Denmark when it comes to centralising state jobs. In the plan we presented, among other things. the objective of transferring state jobs to the ATP in order to bring the tasks closer to the citizens. In Greenland, however, the transfer of state jobs to ATP requires some changes in the system known. In short, with the bill here, we transfer the work-related tasks of the Danish Labour Protection Agency and a number of other tasks relating to occupational safety in Greenland to a new institution called Labour Market Occupational Safety. Firstly, it will ensure the operation within the current framework and, secondly, it will bring the jobs of the Labour Damage Board closer to the citizens and, thirdly, it will hopefully increase the efficiency and simplification of the procedure. I can see in the consultation answers that there is a concern about the new structure in terms of deterioration of sparring opportunities between authorities and the area of health and safety, and it is feared that the deterioration of cooperation in the field of health and safety will have legal implications for the outcome of cases in the field of occupational injury. I hope that this concern has been clarified, as it is important to emphasise that the current employees of the Centre for Occupational Damage in Nuuk will be transferred to the Labour Market Security and the same will apply to the tasks of the employees. In this way, we ensure the competences of the Centre for Occupational Injury as best we can, while maintaining the current cooperation between the Centre and authorities in the field of health and safety at work as far as possible. If you have an ambitious plan such as that of the Left and of the government on the relocation of state jobs, then of course it also involves restructuring. But it is a priority for the Left that these changes and restructurings take place as effectively as possible. We believe that this bill helps, and that is why the Left will, of course, vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428100749	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left and there are no comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428100753	Then I have just been informed that, at the request of the proposers, item 10 of the agenda, which is the first reading of B 144 on the right of municipalities to recover claims themselves, will be deleted. And when that is said in the middle of the debate here, it is more so that the rapporteurs can just prepare themselves for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428100812	The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen, not Mr. Sørensen. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428100820	Thank you and thank you for remembering my name. Enhedslisten must have solved a few things before we can announce our position on this bill. Firstly, I miss an indication of the position of the Greenlandic Landsting and the Greenlandic Government, but the Minister may be able to clarify that later. I have seen a consultation answer from the Ministry of Health in Greenland, in which they say that they have no comments, which must mean that they are positive about it, but we like to wear belts and belts in relation to Greenlandic relations, and we usually have an explanation that the matter has been dealt with in the Greenlandic Landsting and that the Greenlandic Government has therefore announced that it wants a draft law on some changes in conditions in Greenland. So that is one thing, and it may be a formality, but it is so important in principle for Enhedslisten to know whether there is a positive attitude to such a proposal, and we usually follow it as long as it is proposals that do not have any intrusive significance in relation to the agreements we have concluded between Greenland and the Kingdom Community as such. So we're gonna have to figure that out. In fact, as the two previous rapporteurs mentioned, we would also like to know what the consequences of this are, and there we have noticed, as did the previous rapporteur from the Left, who was in the chair before, the answers to the consultation, and it is after all the social partners, a wide range of organizations in Greenland who have expressed great concern about this exercise. So we're gonna have to solve that, too. Then there is the matter of principle. After all, the Enhedslisten voted against the creation of this construction, i.e. Labour Market Insurance, and we were highly critical and we are still away from it to hand over tasks to the ATP. I am not going to repeat all our concerns, but there is also a very wide range of organisations at home, not least professional organisations, which have expressed great concern about this here and a fear that it might lead to longer processing times and less legal certainty. It should not rule out voting in favour of the bill in the end when we have solved these things, because the damage has been done, if you can say so, and if it is a strong wish from Greenland that you want to have this construction, then we will not stand in the way of it. But to sum up, we will have to report our position later when we have finished the committee's work. As paragraph 1, we need to clarify what the Greenlandic Landsting and the Greenlandic Government are saying and, as paragraph 2, we need to have some in-depth answers to the concerns expressed by the social partners in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428101122	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. And I certainly won't forget, sir. Finn Sørensen, it was only because Christian Juhl was on the rapporteur's list. I'm glad you're not someone who's so forgotten! Thank you.). You don't, so thank you. Sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428101137	Thank you. The previous rapporteurs have, of course, already explained the content of the draft law here. The Labour Damage Board is converted into the Labour Market Occupational Insurance as an independent institution, and the Liberal Alliance can support this. Generally speaking, we believe that there is a need for a positive development in this area, and I can also hear that several other rapporteurs have pointed out that there may be too long waiting times at this stage in the Labour Damage Board. For us, it is not so much a matter of relocation of jobs and the Labour Damage Board, but more of getting positive developments and changes in this area going. We believe that it can contribute positively with this change and bring down waiting times, among other things. through efficiency and digitalisation, and that this can benefit the area in general. So, of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428101235	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Nikolaj Amstrup, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428101240	We have the same relatively positive attitude to what several of the other rapporteurs have also expressed, but we also have the same concerns that we have been able to read about in the hearings. However, I also see in the Ministry's reply that they are aware of the risks. So we are still hesitant about the draft law on labour market security in Greenland and in committee work need to clarify more about the consequences, especially the consequences with regard to loss of knowledge and competence. However, if there is any certainty that the Minister can remove the concerns mentioned, as I think it is stated in the consultation note, then we can also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428101338	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428101348	Thank you. On the radical side, we are also in favour of the proposal. It makes good sense when we move the other parts of the work injury treatment, and we will therefore support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428101403	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428101417	You can really talk about a bad coincidence here. As the cases pile up in the Labour Damage Board, the entire institution is now being reorganised. The focus should, of course, instead be on dealing with the many cases, so that the very many people concerned can have peace of mind. The extremely long processing times combined with new structure are just inviting the problems inside. Instead, the Ankestyrelsen should be helped to keep its nose on the track in order to complete the proceedings. After all, the SF voted earlier this week against the first part of the proposal, and we are certainly not in favour of the proposal itself today. As you know, however, a majority voted in favour of the first part. That is why we will say: on this basis, and if Greenland, after considering and responding to the hearings, wants this bill to be transferred to Greenland, we will probably vote in favour, but we are awaiting the examination.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428101522	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428101535	We also expect to vote in favour of the bill. This is, of course, a change of consequence, as the text says, which is a necessary change, given that we have created the social security system. And unless there are some very big objections from Greenland, I find it hard to imagine anything other than that we are going to support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428101601	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428101606	It was not originally intended that this draft law on occupational injury insurance in Greenland should be dealt with first in Greenland. Fortunately, this was corrected following a criticism from the Greenland MPs. If one had not listened to the criticism, one would have been at odds with the Self-Government Act, according to which there should be an opinion before a matter relating to Greenland is dealt with in the Folketing. I therefore strongly urge the government to ensure that laws relating to Greenland are dealt with in Inatsisartut before being dealt with in the Folketing. The draft law on the transfer of the tasks of the Labour Damage Board to the self-governing institution The Occupational Insurance of the labour market is part of the Government's desire to relocate state jobs. If it directly or indirectly has an impact on Greenlandic conditions, Greenland should first be heard and involved. It was recently announced in Politiken that the government has planned the relocation of state jobs within the Spatial Data Board. We knew that part well, but what was forgotten to inform Greenland and the people in Greenland about was that the relocation had the consequence that the government could not live up to the political agreements reached between Greenland and Denmark on the supply of charts by the Spatial Data Board. In the extreme, it can mean the difference between life and death for Greenlanders and also for tourists in Greenland. Today, almost half of these cards are missing, and the relocation of the Spatial Data Board will mean that it is impossible to live up to the agreement, as 12 out of 15 employees have chosen to quit their jobs as a consequence of the relocation. We can only encourage a closer dialogue with Greenland on matters that directly or indirectly affect the people of Greenland. As is stated in this draft law amending the law on occupational injury insurance in Greenland, it is essential that the administration is anchored in Greenland. With the proposal, however, it is unclear what the overall consequences will be for Greenland. In Inuit Ataqatigiit, we are pleased that the newly created institution, Labour Market Insurance, maintains the Centre for Occupational Damage in Nuuk with the same tasks in relation to the Law on Occupational Injury Protection in Greenland. With regard to the consequences, however, it would be appropriate today to clarify: 1) whether the Minister can guarantee that the State does not plan to move jobs from Greenland to Denmark in the context of the bill we are discussing today, and 2) whether the bill will have consequences for the duration of proceedings in Greenland, which is already long. Competences in a number of areas of occupational injury insurance are transferred from the Director of the Labour Damage Board to the Minister for Employment. The Director has so far negotiated with Greenland's Self-Government on these areas, and it is therefore encouraged that a close involvement of Greenland is ensured in the future. We refer the draft law to the Greenland Committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428101936	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Aleqa Hammond, SIU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428101946	The Government has decided to set up occupational insurance, which is in line with the abolition of occupational disease insurance in the labour market. The tasks of the Danish Occupational Health and Safety Authority and the Labour Market Occupational Health and Safety Agency are transferred to the new institution Labour Market Occupational Safety in relation to the Law on Occupational Health and Safety in Greenland. The draft law will not bring about substantive changes to the legislation. For example, you want to do something about it. the right to refer decisions of the Labour Market Occupational Insurance Board to the Administrative Board, as well as the right to review the decisions of the Labour Injuries Board and the Ankestyrelsen. As a result of the abolition of occupational disease insurance in the labour market as an independent institution, a number of changes have been made to the law. The tasks of occupational health insurance in the labour market are thus transferred to occupational safety. The requirement for the administrative management of occupational injury insurance to continue under the Labour Market Occupational Insurance is met. Siumut looks forward to looking into the various consultations from Greenland during the committee procedure. Mr Siumut's group in Inatsisartut proposed yesterday that the draft committee be referred back to committee with the remark that the proposal does not alter the situation of the victim in the Greenland labour market. With these brief comments, Siumut supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102119	Thank you. And then it's the Minister of Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102132	Thank you. The purpose of this bill is to transfer the tasks of the Danish Labour Injuries Authority concerning the processing of claims under the Law on occupational injury insurance in Greenland to the Labour Market Occupational Safety Act. In relation to the administration of occupational injury insurance in Greenland, it is assumed that after the transfer there will also be a local unit in Greenland which is responsible for the solution of the current tasks under the law on occupational injury insurance in Greenland. These are, therefore, organisational changes. No change in the rights and obligations of injured persons or insurance companies shall be foreseen under the applicable legislation. The social security system becomes an autonomous public-law entity in which the rules applicable to public authorities are directly applicable. This is true, for example. the administrative law, the disclosure law and the personal data law. ATP has many years of experience with large-scale administration. ATP has shown that they are able to handle the case management safely and effectively. This experience can be very useful in the field of occupational injury. As a starting point, occupational safety in the labour market will ensure operation within the current framework. Since the transfer plan was published on 1 October last year, ATP and the Labour Damage Agency have been working to prepare for the transfer. The aim is that the transfer is carried out after the possible adoption of the bill in such a way that it supports safe operation for the benefit of the injured and that there is a safe transfer of the employees. The employees of the Centre for Occupational Injuries in Greenland will continue their work as before in order to ensure that the competences are maintained in the field of occupational injury. The transfer of tasks of the Danish Labour Damage Agency to ATP is part of the government's plan to relocate jobs, which is important in terms of creating cohesion throughout Denmark. I would therefore like to thank you once again for the consideration of the draft law, and I look forward to a good committee reading where, of course, we will help to clarify all the issues or concerns that may be related to these organisational changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102402	Thank you. There's a comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102406	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the presentation. I understand from the rapporteur for Siumut that the matter has not been settled in Inatsisartut, in other words the Greenlandic Landsting. I assume that the government agrees that we will not proceed to the final adoption of this bill until we have a message from the Greenland Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102433	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102434	The process we are running here is in agreement with the Greenland Government, and I assume that a respectful vote can be taken on the further process in connection with the committee procedure and with continued contact between the Greenland authorities and the Danish authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102456	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102458	Thank you. Well, I also think that the cooperation is going on in the best way possible. I would just like to make sure, as we have done many times on the part of the Greenland Committee, that we do not go to the final adoption of a legislative proposal until there is a clear message from the Greenland Government that we support the bill we are debating. I would just like to remind the Minister that we have had a lot of discussions on this and that the statement made by the members of the Greenland Committee and the Greenland Committee is that we should not actually go into the first reading of legislative proposals until we know the position of the Greenland Government and the Greenlandic Landsting. So I hope that the Minister can give a clear yes to the fact that we will not proceed to a final vote until we have a message from Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102549	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102550	I would bet that this is something that will be clarified in the further process. I do not know in detail the timing of further Greenlandic treatment, but of course I would like to see it handled respectfully in a satisfactory way for the Greenland Parliament and for the Greenland Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102612	Then there are a few additional comments. Here you go, sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102616	Thank you. It's just that I don't think the Minister is answering Mr. Finn Sørensen's question. It is clear that the Minister will pursue that. I think everyone will appreciate the Minister doing so. But if that effort does not succeed, what is the answer to Mr. Finn Sørensen's question?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102635	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102636	I believe that this should be clarified, if necessary, in agreement with the Greenland Government as far as we are concerned. Since I am not aware of exactly when and how the further treatment takes place in Greenland, we must leave it open. I will, of course, do what the government can do to ensure that this whole process continues to be reconciled with the Greenlandic Government in respect of the processes that are to take place between the Greenland Government and the Greenland Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102711	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102713	After all, it is probably the Minister who is responsible for bringing this matter to a final reading here in the Folketing. But is it to be understood that the Minister cannot rule out driving across the Greenlandic decision-making process and making a decision here before it is decided in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102732	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102734	Since these are two governments, as they are two parliaments, we will of course do our utmost to ensure that these processes are linked. That is all I can say now, as I do not know the times and details of the further processes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102749	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102752	Thank you. There are two questions in this. One is a procedural question about how we are law-making in here, and that is where we, as Members of Parliament, have the opportunity to say that we will not submit a report until we have received answers to all the relevant questions • which virtually all of the rapporteurs mentioned • because it is important in the cooperation between Denmark and Greenland when we change some rules. Then we come to the heart of the matter, and that is that we do not want the processing times, which are long enough in advance, to be further extended. It's kind of just that. I believe that if the Minister answers the questions that we put in committee, it may also help the Greenland Parliament to come to a decision more quickly as to whether or not they support the changes. I hope the Minister will agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102836	On the other hand, I can give a very clear answer to that: yes, we will make such a contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102842	Thank you. Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102845	The intention is quite clear, and it is that there should be no reduction in the number of employees and that there is a clear focus on the fact that the processing times should not be longer. They need to get shorter. So the whole move to decentralize here is about getting a faster processing time. Then I think it can also help with the procedures.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102906	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102907	There are no impairments of rights for anyone. There will be no reduction in staff. Staff shall not be relocated. In other words, in addition to the objective of the overall legislative proposal, namely to ensure coherence in Denmark, this is also a project that is being run through in order to improve the processing process, to reduce the processing times, to develop the IT systems that need to be developed quickly and efficiently in order to achieve those objectives.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102935	There's a comment from Mr. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428102941	Thank you very much. It's just a brief comment. I would like to say that I think it is a little too bad that the debate has turned into a process, in terms of how it is handled. After all, we have already discussed the framework in the Greenland Committee. This treatment takes place one hundred percent within the agreement between Denmark and Greenland, and the pace of treatment is also one hundred percent after an agreement between the two governments. So there is nothing here that is not one hundred percent within the framework of the agreements we now have in place. I think that if we were to have a debate here, it should be about the substance of the legislative proposal, rather than about a process in which the rules are followed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428103019	That concludes the debate. No one else has asked for the floor. I propose that the bill be referred to the Greenland Committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428103037	The debate is open. It's sir. Orla Hav, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428103056	Thank you. With the proposed bill amending the Archive Act, the government is putting an end to a situation that has long been unsustainable and has called for a solution. That is why it is good that we have the opportunity today to deal with the bill in the Folketing. The bill deals with the use of the royal crown by inns, companies and associations on the basis of historical reasons. First of all, I would like to make it clear that we in the Social Democratic Party believe it is important that we are aware of the symbolism of the royal crown. The royal crown is a landmark reserved for state authorities and the royal house. That is and must be the starting point. We want to hold on to the fact that there is no free blow when it comes to who can and cannot use the crown of the king. At the same time, we must note that the legislation currently in force in this area is not fair. Last year there were press stories about Grønhøj Kro, who was previously royally privileged and therefore used the royal crown. However, this was illegal under current legislation, despite the fact that Grønhøj Kro, like many other inns, is a natural part of the Danish cultural heritage by virtue of having previously been royally privileged and therefore used the crown. There are also a number of companies and associations that have previously been allowed by members of the royal family to call themselves royal or to use the royal crown in their logo. However, this practice has no legal link with the legislation before us today. Therefore, it makes good sense that there is a legislative possibility of using the symbolism of the royal house in the future and thus being allowed to use this symbolism. In the optics of social democracy, it is wise. We should not put our backs on it, but instead support the opportunity to safeguard and highlight the Danish cultural heritage. Therefore, the Social Democratic Party can support the government's bill that permission is given for inns, companies and associations to use the royal crown when special historical considerations advocate it. It is reasonable that, in this situation, we should focus on cultural historical considerations. At the same time, however, it is crucial that the Minister in the further work on the bill ensures that the criteria for when the royal crown can be used by other than state authorities and the royal house are established and designed in a way that will effectively support the preservation of Denmark's cultural heritage. I look forward to the Minister involving the committee in the definition of these criteria. We look forward to that work and will follow and take an active part in it and, as I said, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428103406	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428103416	Thank you, President. After all, it is a happy day when we seem to already have a majority in favour of a legislative proposal. In the last parliamentary assembly, the Danish People's Party had a motion for a resolution in the Chamber with the support of the Left and Conservatives to do something for the royal privileged inns and their use of the closed royal crown. Unfortunately, this was voted down, but fortunately we have a new majority with a Minister for Culture at the forefront who would very much like to look at it, and that is what has happened. It's been a little weird to follow the whole discussion about the king's crowns. After all, we found that Post Danmark, which is partly owned by the Swedish state, must continue to use the closed royal crown. The bakers also had to use the closed royal crown, and you didn't really know why. Since then it has been found that the bakers in Vienna in 1529 discovered that the Turks were digging their way under the city wall, and so they were allowed to use the closed royal crown down there, and it has apparently spread to the rest of Europe and at least in Denmark. The royally privileged inns go back to the 1100s for some; it is almost a thousand years of cultural history that we are dealing with, so they have used the royal crown for many years. In 1912 a law came into force that tightened the requirements, and since then the use of the Crown has been part of the penal code, namely section 132, which states that the Crown of the King is a state characteristic. So we have had to take account of the royal house and the state name on the one hand and the cultural historical on the other. This has not been done in the past, and therefore Grønhøj Kro ran into a police report and a sentence that meant that they were not allowed to use it anymore. This has meant that the Folketing has become a little more reasonable, so today we seem to have a majority, perhaps a united Parliament, to vote in favour of allowing the inns to use the closed royal crown. So what exactly are we giving permission to do? Yeah, it's like they can use it, but not just freely. So you can't use it for paper and logos. They must continue to have it on the historic building before 1912 so it cannot be on a modern concrete monstrum built after a fire. Nor should it be on a website unless it is a picture of the building with the royal crown. You can have a reference sign with the closed royal crown, which is excellent. The second thing we encountered was that there are some associations that have been using the closed royal crown for many years, including the Danish community. I got some inquiries from them and they were deeply concerned about the bill because they felt they were forgotten, and indeed they were. Fortunately, the Minister has listened to the request and it is now written in that if associations can prove that they can bring back some connection to the royal house in the form of having a royal patron, historical connections or other things, then the National Archives can give them the opportunity to use the closed royal crown. And we are very pleased with that in Denmark. Last but not least, we must also take a position that in future, in the law, we call the State Archives the National Archives. It's a small thing, but we do that in everyday speech, so it's fine that law and everyday speech are consistent. So all in all, I actually think it's a happy day. It is good for the cultural heritage, it is good for the royally privileged inns, it is good for the owners who are now told that it has always been the owner who has been awarded the privilege, not the building or the inn. There has been such little uncertainty about it, but it has been clearly stated. At the same time, we take into account the almost a thousand-year tradition and thereby also preserve the community that the Danish people and Danish society have with the royal house, and I think that is good for all parties. I think it is a good country and I would also like to thank the Minister and my colleagues in the Left and the Liberal Alliance for their support and support for the fact that in future we can give some kind of permission to use the Crown.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428103848	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428103853	Thank you. I am completely infected by the joy that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen expresses this relatively limited proposal, but I also share the pleasure. What I am thinking of is that this proposal is, after all, a restriction on the right of the Royal House to vote. And I'd just like that, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen to confirm, because it is not so often that the Danish People's Party takes part in the adoption of a proposal that restricts the Royal House's right of decision. 'Cause that's what this is all about, and I just want you to know that. Alex Ahrendtsen to confirm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428103929	Here you go, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428103930	It's nice that I can infect and inspire Enhedslisten, we'd like to do that more often. Whether it is a restriction or whether it is an improved relationship between the royal house and privileged inns in Danish society depends a little on the interpretation. We really just think it is a clarification of a use, of a custom and of custom. The law hasn't been quite precise enough since an anonymous person could report the inn to the police, after which the National Archives had to take the case up and take it to the city court, and then they got a verdict. So the law hasn't been precise enough. This will be the case with the present legislation. I do not think it can be called a restriction.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428104017	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428104019	After all, access to documents has shown that the royal house has been extremely active in maintaining its right to prohibit others from using the royal crown. And it can be said that, at least in the case of the royally privileged inns after an owner who has been given the privilege, that will no longer be the case, nor can it be the case with associations. So in this sense, it is clear that the law makes clear something that means that the king's ability to use the law has been curtailed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428104055	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428104057	I would call it clarification, and the royal house can continue to choose royal court suppliers and thus give them the right to use the royal crown. And then the king's crown is a landmark, in addition to belonging to the royal house. So there are two things in it. In addition, we have cultural historical considerations, and I know that the Royal House is also committed to preserving cultural history, so I am sure that they are just as happy with the proposal as we are because it takes cultural history into account. That's what's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428104129	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428104131	Sir. Søren Søndergaard is absolutely right. It is interesting, I think, to hear the Danish People's Party in fact such a slightly hidden attack on the royal house here. I have to say. Well, the party has been in a choice between the king and the inn, and there they have chosen the inn. I think you have to admit that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428104153	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428104155	I think it's wonderful that socialists throw themselves into the defense of the Royal House's freedom to use the royal crown. I'm having a hard time seeing the limitations. We see this as a clarification and we are actually pleased that this bill is now being adopted. I also hope that SF and Enhedslisten will be inspired and supported on the bill for the benefit of the inns and perhaps even for the benefit of the royal house.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428104228	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428104229	Exactly, right? First for the taverns and then afterwards for the royal house. Yes, yes, we have noticed the priorities of the Danish People's Party. That is the party of the inns, we can understand here, and that is fine, but there is no question of us defending the royal house here. We just note that the Danish People's Party here is in a hidden attack on the royal house, because you would rather have the inns. I really think we should put ourselves behind the ear.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428104256	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428104258	We are the party of the inns, just as we are the party of the royal house, and there is no contradiction. Perhaps there is for SF and Enhedslisten, but not for Dansk Folkeparti. We welcome the proposal. It is a clarification and it helps the owners of the former royally privileged inns, and it may even live up to the purpose of the law of 1912. I do not think that it had been imagined that it could have ended as it did with Grønhøj Kro.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428104324	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. After all, you sit and you're quite happy on behalf of the people's regime on a Thursday morning like this. Here you go, Mrs. Britt Bager, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428104336	Thank you very much, President. With this bill, the Minister for Culture is given the authority to determine when inns, associations and companies may use the closed royal crown. For some people it may seem like a minor matter, but the bill must be seen in the light of a number of cases against innkeepers who have been fined for using the closed royal crown. We in the Left do not think this is in any way reasonable, and we are therefore pleased that the law is now being changed. We consider the royal privileged inns to be part of Denmark's cultural heritage, because they tell the cultural history of the highways, which provided the traveler with an accommodation with food. Here the king's crown was used as a symbol of the special status of the inns. So there are cultural historical considerations which argue that the inns that have so far used the closed royal crown can also do so in the future, provided that they meet a number of requirements. At the same time, it is also important to take into account the fact that the closed royal crown is a state feature, and it will and must remain so. I dare to say that the former rapporteur touched on virtually everything that this bill contains, so I would just like to say in conclusion that the Liberal Party believes that this bill finely balances the cultural consideration of the use of the closed royal crown and the concern to protect what we consider to be a state feature. Of course, we support the proposal 100 per cent and we look forward to the bill being adopted and the law coming into force, hopefully, so that no more innkeepers are caught.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428104525	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428104535	104 years ago, Enhedslisten did not exist, but if we had existed in 1912, we would undoubtedly have supported the cessation of the existing practice of granting a special grant to selected innowners as royally privileged. Even though it was far before our time, we are glad that there were then forward-looking people who could see that it belonged to the past to assign a royal stamp to selected persons as specially privileged. In fact, we could hope that today there was also such a forward-looking majority, a majority which dared to do away with all the royal privileges which exist to this day and which really do not serve a sensible purpose, for example. the title of royal court supplier, to name one of the smaller ones. But that is not the question we are discussing here today. The question we are discussing is whether inns in which a former owner has been given this royal privilege of operating inn should continue to be able to sign the royal crown, or whether we should continue to have a situation where more than 100 inns throughout the country can be punished under section 132 of the penal code, for example, as has been mentioned as a current example, not to remove a carved royal crown on a granite stone as a visible expression of the historical fact that the inn has once been royally privileged. Enhedslisten's taste for royal destruction may lie in a very small place, but so can our understanding of any attempt to change history retroactively. Therefore, Enhedslisten can support this proposal that the Ministry of Culture can lay down detailed rules for the king's crown to be used by inns in logos, when historical reasons speak for it, as stated in the legislative text. We will be aware in committee that precisely that use, when historical reasons justify it, is maintained. History should not be reversed retroactively. It is to be understood in all its diversity, in good and evil terms, and therefore it is also good for us that the visible expression of royal privileges is placed in line with other ancient memories.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428104816	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. Then it's mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428104826	Thank you. Sir. Søren Søndergaard began by saying that the Enhedslisten did not exist in 1912. There is much good to say about that time, one could then mention. In fact, this bill has had a process in which the Minister for Culture has had a lucky hand in balancing the discussion that has been going on and the situation that a number of inns had come into, which was unsustainable over time. And in terms of both cultural heritage, which has been mentioned, history and tradition, and then a royal house that we still want to protect, also in terms of visibility, it has become a bill that we can fully support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428104916	Thank you. And then it's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428104926	Another batch in the series of those that did not exist in 1912. In my optics, this is a limited proposal, and as I myself was out to pronounce in the autumn when some of these matters were discussed, I can see no reason at all why we should expose any inn owner to having to destroy his façade with hammer and chisel to remove a king's crown. In fact, basically, I do not think that there should be any special rules for a closed crown of kings, since in graphical language one has to talk about that it is a reasonable generic object that can be designed in many ways. And therefore, the royal family and the state should be able to protect exactly the royal crown they want to use under the ordinary patent and trademark rules. Having said that, however, it is an excellent proposal which will then take a step in the right direction and which will ensure that we still have some beautiful old inns.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428105023	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stamp, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428105037	Thank you. We also think that a very fine balance has been found in the proposal, which provides for a slight relaxation of the rules with respect for inns that have an old tradition and have felt that it was a major attack on their storytelling, that they were not allowed to use the royal crown, but at the same time not to give a complete free pass for it to be used everywhere. In fact, I was recently at an Indian restaurant in Hillerød, which had a royal crown on their facade. They had had it for a very long time, and I think it is because it was once a tavern. At least the Indian restaurant owner couldn't really understand it, the day he got a letter and now I can't remember from which board said that now he had to remove that king's crown from the gable. He couldn't really understand that, because it had always been there. But as I said, it was probably because it was an old inn. Perhaps it is not exactly the Indian restaurant's right to use the royal crown, which is crucial here, for the owner was not part of his storytelling, but it is for some others. And we have respect for that too, and that is why we think that this bill has landed very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428105142	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428105153	We support this proposal. I think that Mr. Søren Søndergaard gave an excellent, very fundamental speech, from which I feel completely covered. I will then refer to it and say that we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428105209	Thank you. Sir. Nase Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428105215	It is very rare for us to deal with a legislative proposal for those who are historically interested. I find it exciting to dive into Denmark's history. It is indeed the case that the state-approved highways arose as a result of the state power, the king, considering it its task to ensure that travellers' needs for accommodation and a cheap meal were met during the journey. The privilege, the permission to keep the inn on certain terms, was granted to a particular person and was not inherited. Each new inn owner had to apply for the privilege to be renewed and the holder of the privilege had to pay an annual tax to the Treasury. However, with the Law on the Protection and Trade of Strong Drinks of May 10, 1912, a licensing system was introduced, and the system of royally privileged inns thus disappeared. Several inns and innkeepers retained the royal crown as a symbol for historical reasons, but that practice has been illegal, and that is being changed now with this bill. We think this is a sensible legislative proposal. It's not a revolution against the royal house. This is not an attack on the royal house. I think the Royal House can live with the fact that with this bill we give the Minister for Culture the power to give the former privileged highways the opportunity to continue an old tradition of using the royal crown as a symbol when special historical conditions speak for it. We in the Conservative People's Party support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428105407	Thank you for that, and then it's the Minister of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428105414	Thank you to all the rapporteurs, and not only for their support, but also for some speeches which raised the matter from the historical perspective where it belongs. And then when Mr. Søren Søndergaard is looking for a reason why Enhedslisten can also support the bill, and finds the reason why we are in fact restricting the royal power in the country, so I think we should be generous and let him keep that justification. On the other hand, Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen accepted that Dansk Folkeparti is among other things also the party of the inns. That was said, and I would like to sign for it both as Minister for Culture and as Minister for the Church. As you know, it is better to sit in the inn and think about the church than to sit in the church and think about the inn. I would like to make it clear that the crown of the king is a state feature which will continue to be reserved for the state and the royal house, and that will not change if this bill is adopted. But there will be an opportunity to use the royal crown in exceptional cases for cultural historical reasons. This applies to some associations and companies and to some inns that previously had owners who were royally privileged. But we retain the closed crown of kings as a landmark. The state needs to be able to signal to its citizens when it is a state authority or institution. Therefore, we had to strike a balance between the need to make room, on the one hand, for an important cultural history and, on the other hand, to preserve the closed royal crown as a distinguishing feature of the state and the royal house. I am pleased that all the rapporteurs believe that we have found a balance that we can live with for many years to come, hopefully, and that is why in reality there is a little historical winging about what we are experiencing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428105644	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428105656	The debate is open, and it is the Minister for Culture first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428105729	Thank you, Madam President. The SF's proponents want an analysis of the social and economic conditions of performers and creative artists. Not least, a number of problems for artists in relation to the benefit system are being identified. The comments mention, for example, the challenges of artists in the grey area between being employees and self-employed and artists' challenges in earning the right to benefit when receiving art support. I understand the desire to look into these issues, but the fact is that, as a follow-up to the Daily Benefits Commission, an investigation has already been started under the Ministry of Employment on the position of self-employed freelancers and fee recipients in relation to the benefit system. This is among other things. groups like artists who will be in focus in the investigation work. In fact, the working group responsible for drafting the report meets with the artists' organisations so that there is no possibility of forgetting the problem raised here. It is planned that the working group will make its recommendations no later than one year from now, so it can be said that a substantial part of the issues referred to by the proposers as motivation for the proposed investigation are already under investigation. The so-called Book and Literature Panel under the Ministry of Culture conducts a study on the conditions of artists later this year. And there are also plans for an explanation of the visual arts' relationship in collaboration between the Danish Arts Foundation and private foundations. I therefore think it is necessary to say that something is going on in this area and that the consideration which the authors of the motion for a resolution feel should be taken seriously and taken into account in the relevant forums. That is why the government cannot support the proposal put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428105953	Thank you. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party, has a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428105957	Thank you, Minister. It is true that, in addition to the Supplementary Commission, work is being done on freelancers and so-called atypical employees to which the artists come. That is quite correct, and that is why we thought about it when we drew up this motion for a resolution. But the fact is that the artists have a broader set of issues to deal with. It is not just about the daily allowance, but also about the tax, the transport allowance, and how to define, for example. grants in relation to various other schemes. And it is true, as the Minister says, that there are some things going on, but would it not be a good idea to get it together so that we can have a comprehensive overview of it? Is it wise to have a lot of different things running in different places and in different ministries. Would it not be an advantage for cultural policy to have a much better overall view of this problem area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428110057	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428110059	I understand the argument. However, if we were to follow the proposal, we would inevitably have a relaxation of what the proposers want to set in motion and then what has already been set in motion. And that is why I think that the proposal should at least wait a year until we know what comes out of the other things that have been set in motion. If then the proposers have some questions about taxes and other things that have been mentioned, then we could start with a dialogue between the Ministry and the committee on these issues. Because I do not want to rule out that there are other things that can be taken up. But I think it is strange to sit in a committee which has begun and then hear that a new committee is now being set up to deal with the same things. I think we should take it in the right order.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428110204	Thank you. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428110208	I understand the argument. What I mean, however, is that where the work of the benefit commission continues, it is very specific about labour market policy. I also think we need to have a cultural policy perspective on this from the basic point of view, that if we are to have art and culture in this country, we also need artists and cultural people who can produce and practice art. That is why we have a joint responsibility to ensure that we are also aware that they have reasonable financial conditions. And that is what we want to see done, as has been done in other countries, for example. Norway.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428110249	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428110251	Now I do not know exactly what comes out of the investigation that is in the process of working together between the Danish Arts Foundation and private foundations. I don't know. But I think it will be a fairly wide-ranging analysis, and I know at least a large private fund that is quite concerned with what the proposers are talking about here. That is why I believe that more will come out of the analysis that the Art Foundation will make together with private foundations than the proposers might know when they wrote the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428110334	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428110339	We can, of course, clarify this by means of a number of questions in committee. And then I understand the Minister in that way that if it turns out that we do not have the broad study of both the income situation of the creative and the performers, the Minister will be open to the fact that we are actually starting it in another way. I would just like to say, in relation to the committee dealing with the benefit system, that this is the general benefit system for self-employed persons and freelancers, etc. It is not specific to the target group called artists. And both the performers and the creative artists have some particular problems besides them, sir. Holger K. Nielsen mentions with tax, also in relation to the benefit system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428110425	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428110428	It may be that Mr. Søren Søndergaard is right about this. But there is one thing I would like to say quite frankly, namely that we can never create security for freelancers and paid and self-employed workers; we can never create the same security as there is for employees with fixed jobs and perhaps pensions etc. There will always be some who make terribly much money, and there will be some who make terribly little money. That is the way the world is, and we cannot fundamentally change that. But now it is being checked in a number of fields whether there is anything we can do and if there is something that is then missing, then Mr. Søren Søndergaard in any case a good argument for raising it, both in one way and another.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428110529	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428110532	Thank you. I can hear that the Minister does not support this otherwise excellent proposal. But if we stand in a year's time when the other studies are completed and can see that they are not adequate, does that mean that the Ministry will start to get the overall picture of economic and social conditions? Because what I think is important in this proposal is that it is not just about cash benefits or about taxes. It is precisely about what our artists' social and economic conditions are all together, so we can go in and see if there is anything we need to do in relation to legislation, art support and a number of other things to ensure our artists' proper conditions. So, in a year's time, when all these various statements have been seen, will the Minister himself set in motion a more comprehensive statement in this area if there is still a lack of scope?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428110628	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428110629	If there are vital areas for the daily lives of Danish artists and the opportunity to work, which are not dealt with and evaluated in the initiated committee work, then I would be a bad minister of culture if I were not interested in it. For what we are talking about is the undergrowth of Danish cultural life, which must be allowed to develop and which may initially suck on the lab, but which hopefully does not give up for that reason. So, of course, a Ministry of Culture must be preoccupied with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428110718	Rasmus Nordqvist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428110719	No one here would claim that the Minister for Culture is a bad minister of culture, so I am glad to hear that. Because this is precisely about the fact that our artists are not a homogeneous group. These are part-time workers, ordinary employees, freelancers, self-employed, etc. And what I am nervous about in the studies and studies that are under way right now is that you look at small elements and do not get a look at the overall picture of the social and economic conditions of Danish artists. But I look forward to the work of the committee here and to further discuss it with the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428110750	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428110752	That is exactly what Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist therefore that it is very different subjects we are talking about, and that it is very different situations and problems that advocate that in different forums you look at the individual corners of the problem, also because I do not think that it ends with a single overall solution. I think so, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist believes that we should remember to look at everything. But it does not end with a single solution. Because the conditions are so different for the people we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428110842	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line. Here you go, sir. Daniel Toft Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428110916	Thank you for that, President. The Socialists want to ensure the best possible quality in our art and culture, and here, of course, the performers and their social and economic conditions are crucial. As an executive artist, one most often has a working life which is arranged in a significantly different way than that of an average employee. That is in itself natural enough, and I also believe that many artists are aware that they have chosen a career path that is not always quite straightforward. Nevertheless, there is good reason to focus on the economic and social conditions of performers and creative artists. In the comments to the motion for a resolution, the proposers well describe how a number of labour market-related schemes and some tax rules do not seem to take sufficient account of artists' working lives. Some of this is about cash benefits, but there is also more to it than that. For the Social Democrats, high-quality art and culture are very central and important, and this requires artists to be able to dedicate themselves to their art on the basis of fair working conditions. For the same reason, the Socialists are fundamentally positive about the purpose of this motion for a resolution. It is important to know what the situation is for artists today in this area. For the Socialists, however, it is absolutely essential that such investigation work as this could be organised in such a way as not to disturb or conflict with the important work currently being done by the Social Fund Commission on the rules on unemployment benefits for self-employed people and those with atypical forms of employment, including artists. Whether it is possible to find a good solution to what the authors of the motion for a resolution can do, we need to clarify during the committee procedure, where it may also be appropriate to consider whether there are any economic implications of this resolution. Depending on how these things come into place in committee, the Socialists will put our position on this resolution before the second reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428111124	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Here you go, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428111136	Thank you, President. It is in many ways a sympathetic proposal which the Socialist People's Party is considering in this Chamber today. We debated it during the election campaign. At Berlingske there was a debate meeting on e.g. the vulnerable economic situation of artists. And the SF should be commended for having fulfilled their promise to do something about it by means of this motion for a resolution. If we in the Danish People's Party are to vote against, or at least follow, the Minister's recommendations and possibly work on the problems that exist in the committee, this is because of what the Minister has said very clearly, namely that there is already an investigation work under way in the Daily Money Commission. In addition, we may be slightly reluctant to focus solely on a small group, as the artists are, because there are a large number of others who live in a precarious situation. After all, a word has been created, namely the priesthood, about the people who live in a vulnerable situation in the labour market. This does not just apply to artists. It is known that there are approx. It is estimated that in 10 to 20 years' time there will be half a million people who, in one way or another, will end up in the grey area of which the motion for a resolution tells us very precisely. They are neither self-employed nor permanent workers, which is why they are caught up in the benefit system. We would very much like to take a look at that. However, we would also like to await the Commission's proposals for solutions if they can find any solutions at all, because that is not easy. I myself have lived as a writer, translator, publisher and thus as a self-employed person, and at one point I had ten different incomes at once. There was no possibility for me to be part of the established benefit system, which is why I was not in an unemployment fund. It didn't pay for me, because I wouldn't have been paid anyway. You live like this from week to week, from month to month. It gives enormous freedom, and I loved it, but it also gives some uncertainty. For some, this is problematic, and it is also problematic for artists, but it is equally problematic for the many project-employee academics or the many people who live from job to job who are not artists. Therefore, we prefer an overall solution if it is possible at all for all who live on the prefect's terms, and not that we only take into account the small group that the artists are. That is why we will probably in the first place follow the Minister's recommendation and then look at what we can do in committee and, ultimately, wait for any solution proposed by the benefit commission in 2017 if they are completed by that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428111457	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428111501	It is quite true that we have this so-called "preciary' and that it will be an increasing challenge, one can say, and that is also one of the points raised by the benefit commission. We also agree that we should not play out artists against other groups in that category. But I also think that we should turn it around and ask what importance it has to art and, like what this means for the art unfoldment. A very good example was when the Danish Actor Association was in the deputy in the Culture Committee and described how the ceiling on the transport allowance is important for their importance in getting out into the country and performing. In other words, the fact that they are quite quickly hit by the ceiling means again that their incentive to take a job in Jutland, if they live in Copenhagen, will be smaller. So I think we have a common task in that, like saying: How is art best developed? How does it get out best? And if there are some systems in different places that limit it coming out, let's look at it. That's what's our starting point for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428111614	On the other hand, it is possible to contact those who hire artists. They should also ensure that artists receive some form of transport allowance, which is perfectly normal. When you give talks in a church to a congregation council, you also get your expenses covered. But we would like to take a look at it if the Commission does not address the problems of artists. We want to help look at solutions if solutions can be made that apply to everyone. We do not want to look at a very specific group, namely the arts, and then forget all the many others, and that is why we actually kindly reject the proposal at first.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428111658	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428111703	Again: we fully agree that we should not play out one group against other groups. But does the rapporteur not think that what I said before can be sensible to take as a starting point what this means for the unfoldment of art, and, like, how do we get the best cultural and artistic expression in this country, and then take a look at whether there are some things in the systems that limit it? It is not just unemployment benefits; it is also a number of other factors that are involved, as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist mentioned in his speech earlier. It's about getting a comprehensive account of it. Yesterday, at the hearing we held in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, it was also called for a great deal of attention to be paid to a knowledge centre, to simply getting a better overall view and more evidence of what the situation is like for the arts and the consequences for cultural life and culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428111801	Here you go, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428111802	Well, the overview will hopefully be in 2017, and what is then missing, we must fill in the cooperation between the Minister for Culture and the committee, where SF is very much to be the driving force. I see no reason why we should set off any extra work when we know that there will be an overview sometime in a year's time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428111824	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428111826	When I hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, I wonder whether Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen does not believe that there are some particular problems for artists in relation to earnings that do not apply to all others.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428111842	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428111843	There may be individual cases, but in general we are reluctant to regard artists as a specially selected group, which must have special privileges and for which special studies must be carried out when work has been started in connection with the Daily Money Commission, which also has to look at the problems of artists within the benefit system. Should there then be some issues that have not been clarified, then we will take them afterwards to see if solutions can be worked out in the tax system. However, we are not particularly happy to take out a small group and say that it should be given special treatment, that it should have some special conditions. There are also other people in this country who live a bit as artists but who are not artists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428111939	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428111940	Therefore, we also think it would be perfectly natural if there were a particular problem in the transport industry with drivers, that the Danish People's Party's Transport Rapporteur took it up and perhaps put forward a proposal that it should be examined so that something could be done about it, as the SF's cultural rapporteur has here taken up the particular aspect of culture. One thing is at least one hundred per cent certain, and that is that the committee set up as a result of the benefit commission will not solve the particular problems of artists in general. Perhaps it does exactly that in the area of unemployment benefit, but that is only part of the area. That is why I would urge the Danish People's Party to consider whether it would not support the transport rapporteur, as guaranteed, if it were in relation to the drivers, here too, that a study be carried out to clarify matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428112033	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428112034	We would like to await the work of the benefit commission and then it turns out that we need further information and that there are problems that are not just for artists and that need to be addressed in other areas, for example. in the field of taxation, we are willing to discuss it. However, as the motion for a resolution is before us, we do not have the opportunity to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428112059	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Britt Baker, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428112111	First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for tabling a basically sympathetic motion for a resolution which focuses on the economic conditions of Danish artists. As the two previous rapporteurs and the Minister have already explained, the authors of the proposals demand an analysis of the social and economic conditions of performers and creative artists. With that in mind, I shall move on very quickly to one of the points which makes it impossible for the Left to support this motion for a resolution. As already mentioned, a working group has been set up under the Ministry of Employment, which is already in the process of looking at, among other things: the situation of selfemployed and freelancers in relation to the current benefit system. In other words, the work that is called for in the proposal here overlaps. The working group's overall recommendations will be presented in the first half of 2017, which is why it simply does not make sense that we should now launch a further analysis on the conditions of performers and creative artists. Let us now begin by waiting for the outcome of the work in progress. In addition, we need to bear in mind that artistic areas range very widely. Therefore, there are also major differences in social and economic conditions in the various areas, so it can be difficult to examine the situation in one overall analysis. Full investigation may need to be more targeted, and in this respect it is worth noting that there are already several targeted studies on the drawing board. Among other things: the Minister referred to a study of the author's situation later this year. Against this background, and as I have already said, the Left does not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428112305	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428112320	I would like to start by thanking Holger K. Nielsen for making this motion for a resolution on the social and economic situation of Danish artists. We think this is an important proposal and we support it, just as we have been doing for a long time now. A witty head once said that artists are often at the top of the poster, but at the bottom of the payroll. The problem is, it's more than a joke. For although there are of course artists who make really good money and that is where the vast majority are concerned, being an artist is a low-wage job. We know very little about exactly how bad things are, and that is one of the problems. In the end, many of us may suffer from the delusion that being a creative or performer actually bears the salary in itself, yes, that may even be the case that the finest art is actually best created in the light of the candle on a damp twig room and preferably on an empty stomach. In preparation for this debate, I have been looking for some summary statistics on the incomes of artists as a whole. After looking at different places, I went to the website of the Ministry of Culture, where I found a very good study, by the way. It was dated July 1997. It had been 13 years in the process, and it concerned only the incomes of creative artists and not those of performers. The reality is that we simply lack facts in this area. That is point No. 1. Any meaningful discussion about solutions or the need for solutions, if you like, must be based on a certain element of factual knowledge. We have to have that. But knowledge is not enough. We must also have developed some proposals for solutions, and here too things are not going very fast, to put it mildly. Let us take as one example the interplay problems in the benefit system. This causes many problems, both for performers and creative artists: the collusion between pay and business, the clash between having to be available for ordinary work and yet having a contract for a job several months into the future, the clash between what is really free time and working time for a creative artist. Those problems have been discussed for a long time, and many might have hoped that there would be some answers to this in connection with the agreement on a new unemployment benefit system concluded in October 2015 between the government, the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party. If so, they were disappointed. Instead, the parties to the agreement have set up a working group to look only at the problems of the self-employed in the benefit system. This working group will report, as has been said, in the first half of 2017. But even if it succeeds, even if it is respected, even if the working group is fully up to its task, there will still be a large number of problems in relation to the particular problems of the benefit system for creative and performers. In addition, there are the artists' particular challenges in relation to various public services and public authorities, for example. SKAT. From the side of the Enhedslisten we will use the committee procedure to identify where there is a need for further studies, and we will encourage artists' own organisations to play in with ideas and suggestions. Against this background, we will also give our support to the fact that, before Parliament goes on summer holidays, we will be able to adopt this call to the government to initiate a study on the social and economic conditions of artists in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428112742	Thank you. Then it's mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428112754	Thank you. If we now have this motion for a resolution today, it is of course very reasonable to note that there are certainly major differences in terms and possibilities behind this, and that is why it is very good that the Minister can refer to an explanation that is under way. Today, we could also discuss how much and whether we should regulate in every way, whether it will be better. In other words, artists are also a people from which I sometimes belong the term freedom, namely the freedom to practice and create his art, and that there should not necessarily be a safety net in all contexts. A number of artists are self-taught. There are also some who make good money in the different arts, both music, visual arts, creative art etc.. And the thing about thinking that you have to get it into a template is certainly a good thinking on the socialist side of this floor, but we think it is a misconception and that we should create opportunities and not restrictions. We are usually good with rules, with restrictions, and this does not actually promote any production at all, even in the field of art. Let me just give you an example. Agriculture has suffered for a number of years from the fact that we introduced land subsidies. It is simply a subsidy for a piece of land, whether it be produced or not. This means that the skilled farmer was given just as much or no more than the less skilled farmer. It's unhealthy, it's bad. It is very good to reward those who are skilled and good and who create something • those who make a special effort, and fortunately many do, also within the world of art. That is why I would just like to say that the investigation that is under way is fine. We agree that it is good to wait, as the Minister has said, but we do not stand in the way of making rules and safety nets at all costs and so on. under an area that is diverse and unfolds because of talent and diligence and exciting initiatives. Those opportunities still have to be there so that the good, the skilled and the industrious also end up getting a little more than those who are less skilled, eager and industrious. So we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428113025	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428113029	Now it was sir. Leif Mikkelsen, who himself brought agriculture into play. I think there are many artists who would be very happy to receive just one thousandth, one millionth of the support that is being poured out on Danish agriculture. But let's just leave it alone. Another point that I would like to ask the rapporteur is the idea that it will be brought into line with the poor. Well then, there are means of countering that, and that was one of the points that we were able to discuss during the committee procedure, and in order to clarify what the situation was. I do not imagine that a creative artist, for example. can be on cash benefits while he creates and makes some work which can then make a large income, not have to be offset for it. That's why I think it's sir. Leif Mikkelsen, who has a very templately and regular approach to this, where the rest of us have a much more flexible approach, which of course means that if you make money from your art, you do not get public support at the same time. Isn't that a point of view, as Mr. Leif Mikkelsen can share?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428113142	Thank you. Sir. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428113144	Yes, but let me just say, first of all, that we do not go wrong in relation to agriculture, that in my party we are quite in favour of abolishing subsidies and subsidies, because we have a belief that Danish farmers will be able to cope well with other farmers, even better when there are the same conditions, whether in one place or another. So it's just for now not to go wrong in the city, sir. Søren Søndergaard. As far as artists are concerned, we can welcome the fact that there are many artists in Denmark who are doing excellent. And there are many who have learned their own art and live from it. It is within the music, within the arts, within the creative arts, sculptures, etc. And that freedom and that opportunity we just have to make sure away is still there, because then that forest will, in my best opinion, grow. I would therefore like to say that I am always nervous about the fact that, especially when the left makes proposals, it is because you have to have a planned economy, and then everyone has to have virtually a level playing field. It tends to end up with that, and that is why I would like to raise the warning flag today before we fall on each other's legs to be friendly and say that it is indeed a good proposal and worth discussing. I think I sense where it might lead, and that is why I am raising the warning flag today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428113254	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428113256	I didn't know that sir... Leif Mikkelsen is such a nervous secret as it seems. But Mr. Leif Mikkelsen can be calm. However, on the subject under discussion here, I would like to say that when, for example, I come to the vote on the motion for a resolution, I shall be voting in favour of the motion for a resolution. Looking at the survey back from 1997, which you can find on the Ministry of Culture's website, it is interesting that one of the major differences in income among artists is in age. Well, young artists earn virtually nothing or have minus, older artists earn more. It is in general that there are also young artists who earn a lot, and older artists who earn a little, but that is not the general picture. And the question of how to ensure that young artists get started on start-up aid, I had almost said, which is popular in other areas, for example. some of what could be discussed on the basis of such an analysis.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428113344	Thank you. Sir. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428113345	Yeah, we could discuss that. There is nothing strange about the fact that the beginning is more difficult and that you have to be an artist and be able to sell your products before you make money. That's the risk of being independent. I have been self-employed for a very long time and have lived with that risk. And that's a risk that the self-employed have. If you choose that path, then it is not as safe as it is to have some contractual employee job where you have notice period etc. It's not like that when you're self-employed. And that's the risk and the freedom that I actually sense our artistic environment is comfortable with. What I just want to say is that it should not be sold in some misguided effort to ensure that we now finally have to secure everyone. It is not everything that can grow, it is not everything that can bear, and not all artists should then perhaps end up living on their art. They must also have the opportunity to discover that hoof, it wasn't them, and then go to something else instead of having a safety net that keeps them going. That's why.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428113436	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428113439	But the latter is absolutely right. We don't disagree with that. Of course, it cannot be completely compared with ordinary employees' jobs. Nobody does. What you are suggesting is a reasonable one and then more knowledge of it. That's what this is about. I am not going to comment on the general view of the Liberal Alliance, but when it comes to talent and survival, is the rapporteur so sure that it is those with the greatest artistic talent who also always earn the most money?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428113520	Sir. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428113521	No, because the question is who will decide it. Is it the Folketing that has to adopt rules on this, or is it the market that actually guarantees artists who can live on art? There we believe more in the market than we believe in Mr. Holger K. Nielsen or others in here can find a set of rules that can mean that we then hold hands under them and those artists because they are probably worth supporting. I also think that perhaps we would soon disagree on what was worth supporting. So I think it is very good that it is the market that decides. When the artists want the freedom that I am quite convinced they want it, I actually hear a lot of people who want it and don't want it clinging, yes, it's the market that decides if it carries, if it flies, if they make really good money, and if they have a good future ahead of them. And that's actually a good principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428113604	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428113606	In other words, since the beginning of the 1960s we have had a cultural policy in this country, where the purpose is precisely that it would not otherwise be able to survive, and then we would have an incredibly poor society precisely because we cannot put artistic talent into the logic of the market economy, which Mr. Leif Mikkelsen will do well. That is why I really think that the Liberal Alliance should think through the argument that comes here. However, I would like to say that this is not, of course, about just having a planned economy or complete security in relation to everything. I would call it reasonable and again more knowledge in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428113657	Thank you. Sir. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428113657-2	Yes, but it sounds very relaxed and reasonable if it can land there. So we agree with the support for parts of our cultural life. Among other things: there are dozens of volunteers working throughout the Danish association life, where every single crown is given out very well and you get big currency in society for the money that is spent there. Then there are other parts of cultural life where there will be such a tendency to support, which may not make any sense. We welcome the fact that fortunately we have many who are doing well on their own, and we would like to both award and support and make visible, create opportunities and not restrictions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428113741	Thank you. Then it is the next rapporteur, and that is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428113751	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking Mr. Holger K. Nielsen to make this proposal, which I would call not only sympathetic, but really, very important. When we look at the role of artists and art in society, it is essential in my optics that we continue to support and help the artists to create and practice. And, unfortunately, we are currently seeing that the situation of artists and the conditions of art are under pressure in our society. Artists are not such a homogeneous group, for they are precisely unemployed, self-employed, freelancers and part-time workers. They are often people with a patchwork economy, and in order for us from here to support them in the creation and practice of their art, we need to have knowledge. This isn't about making a template to put everyone in small boxes, but it's about meeting the artists where their challenges are, and for us to do so, we need a more holistic picture of what the situation is, that is, the social and economic situation. I think it is important to stress this very point with the overall picture, i.e. an overall picture that is not about a small corner like the daily allowance. For some time now, we have not been able to reap the low fruitage in terms of actually being able to help the artists. I mean, it's about what it's like to think of the work grants that the state is distributing. Is it work, or is it all of a sudden an honoration? Here we could have just gone in and said that of course it is work, and of course counting the hours. We have not managed to do so, and I think it is because we really lack the overall picture that the proposal proposes. That is why, on behalf of the Alternative, I would like to say that, of course, we fully support this. Because this is really crucial for us to be able to create proper conditions for our artists in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428114012	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428114019	Thank you. I think that from a cultural point of view, the social and economic conditions of artists are a very important area to be identified, and for this reason I think that the perspective should in fact be broader. Because there is no doubt that it is a discussion about aid schemes, tax rules and benefit rules and the interaction between them, but there is also a discussion about the organisation of the industry, and I do not think that is in this text at all. Because we should not forget that many of the artists are public employees. At the moment, there is quite a lot of discussion in the theatre about permanent employment versus freelance employment, and there is also the question that, as a representative of the public, one might ask: what is it supposed to create security among artists? Is it the social security system, or could it just as well be more permanent jobs? In fact, there I think there is also a major discussion about the organisation of the industry, not least in the light of the fact that it is the state, the municipalities and the regions that are the employers of the artists, and we are the cultural patronage of them all, I was going to say. For although, of course, large cultural patrons and foundations still exist in Denmark, it is nevertheless the public sector which, I think, provides the greatest support for art and culture. So I am, in fact, very inspired by this proposal, but I am also inspired not only to look at support rules, benefit rules and tax rules, because that is where I think we should wait for what is in the benefit commission, and what the Minister has also said has been broken under his resort. But I would also like, in fact, to have a more general discussion about the design of the industry in the light of the work that is being done in the forums, because I think that we are, in fact, to some extent to the point of reference in relation to that discussion. Because I think, when I read the text, it's a little like it's just that when you're an artist, you're freelancers and so on, and I really don't think it's just a condition that it's like that. I think it is also under discussion, and it is not because I want to take freedom from the artists. Because I think it is really encouraging for artists to be able to be freelancers and have loose employments in many different places, and there are certainly very good arguments for that, but I think we just play a major role as the employer of the artists, and that is why I think it is an important perspective too. So my opinion will be that in the committee work we are looking at how we can get the broader perspective in and how we can build on the investigation work already in place in the benefit commission and what lies under the minister's remit, and then we look at it with an even greater perspective. Because I actually think this is really, really important, but for me it's more than a benefit discussion. Basically, we in the Radical Left are also in principle opposed to setting up special benefit schemes for special groups, because then you will be able to quickly draw out other groups. It should not be a secret either, but I think we are equally concerned that proper conditions will also be created for the artists and that the masquerade that is right now is not entirely optimal for the performing and creative arts. So we are very happy to have the opportunity to discuss it in this Chamber and discuss it in committee, and very much gladly on the basis of the work that is before us and with a slightly broader perspective.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428114344	Thank you to the rapporteur. The last rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428114354	It is a sympathetic resolution and we are in fact very much in agreement with much of what it says. It is important that proper conditions are created for artists. Many artists are doing well, but even more are not doing so well, and the market cannot be used as a yardstick for art alone. So we agree that something needs to be done about artists and art. However, although we are positive about the SF's motion for a resolution, we cannot support it at this stage, and that is for several reasons, as both the Minister and other rapporteurs have also mentioned. There is a working group currently looking at this area and they make their recommendations in the first half of 2017 and therefore, at this stage, it does not make sense for another investigation. So let us wait until the working group comes up with their recommendations and if there are areas that they do not have, then we have to put them on, and then we have to come back to it. So a positive attitude, but we cannot vote in favour of the resolution at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428114516	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428114531	Thank you for the debate, which I actually think has been fine with an understanding of this issue and also for the importance of discussing the economic and social conditions of artists. I think we all agree that the old idea that you only get good art when the artist sits in a leaky loft and is starving to death does not hold anywhere and that artists also have the right to a proper material life and must have butter on the bread. We don't know much about what it actually looks like out there. When we hear such examples of it from artists who are not the ones who are in the glittering magazines and have hollywood roles etc., but who are ordinary artists they are actors, artists and dancers, it is, if I may say so, all around the world that it appears that many of them are living in very, very miserable economic conditions. In fact, they do. It's often very miserable. Sir. But they keep on doing it. And it is not the case that they want security, because then they would never deal with art as they do, because it is uncertain. This will continue to be the case. There is no doubt about that. Well, we can't count on you to work as an artist in the same way as if you had another job. It is true, as Mrs Zenia Stampe says, that many people also have permanent employment, and we also have to get into this in some way, but it is often very miserable. When we've kind of taken this up, it's not like we're gonna do good for these people. Yes, we would like to, but that is not the starting point. The starting point is: How do we strengthen the art of our society? We all want good art, good culture. We all want to watch the good movies, watch the good TV shows, watch the good theater plays, watch the good exhibitions. But we will not do that if we do not have artists who are able to produce the things that are able to practice that art. Then it would all fall apart and then it will be completely meaningless that we have a cultural policy at all and that we have art in this country. That's why we have to take this more seriously. I have full understanding of those who withdraw the benefit commission. We have done so ourselves, and that is also clear from the remarks, and we have actually become a little hesitant about this because we do not want to play out the various groups against each other. We have also had some discussions with various artists' organisations about this. But we have come to the conclusion that we should still have this overall study, precisely from the point of view of cultural policy. It is a cultural policy study and not a labour market policy study that we must have. Because it is cultural policy that is at stake, and it is a question of how we can maintain a rich cultural life and a rich art life in our country. So that's why we need this coherent study, which we're kind of setting up here. It was the Minister for Culture who said that it is particularly talents who have this problem. That's not true. Let me just give you an example, a case that I have received here. It's a 69-year-old visual artist, NN. He has received the honour of the Danish Arts Foundation as recognition for his lifelong artistic work. His work has inspired several generations of fellow artists, and he has exhibited at a large number of recognised museums at home and abroad. But he earns virtually nothing, for most of his works cannot be sold. His practice consists mainly of temporary works in public spaces, performances and actions. Since he does not have sufficient income in his artistic sole activity, SKAT decides that he is a hobby artist in fiscal terms. Therefore, he has no right to deduct the costs of material and production of works from his tax account, as he has done on the tax return for a number of years. The State Arts Foundation's honour is not regarded as an income in his artistic activities, evaluates SKAT, and this despite the fact that NN was just awarded the benefit because of his artistic work, and in order that he could continue his artistic work. He now has a tax debt of 0.5 million. kr. It's just an example of someone, a visual artist, who doesn't make much money. I think that somewhere we agree that there is no clear link between quality and talent and then income. So there isn't. There are many artists who have a lot of talent and who do not make very much money. That's just the way it is. But because of the tax rules, the man here simply gets stuck, because he doesn't make enough money. He has a hobby business, says SKAT, and therefore he cannot subtract it from which others can subtract. That is obviously unfair and it limits the opportunities for him and similar artists to be able to unfold. There are a large number of other examples I could cite. I will take them into the questions in committee, because I think we really need to have a more thorough and serious discussion of these matters. There are a lot of people who are actually in a mess here. I understand that there would not be such a direct majority to press the green button if we were to vote tomorrow. We must then take note of that and see what we can do about it. I am certainly looking forward to, and I very much hope, that in the work of the committee we can find some solutions and something so that we can move forward with this discussion. I would like to warn very strongly against what some people are saying, namely that we should just wait for the special committee of the Daily Money Commission to finish their work and that the others are finished. I really believe that there is reason for us to tackle this on the current basis, that we can do it too, and that we should at least have some sort of process set in motion for progress in this field. Because we need a comprehensive overview. That was also the conclusion of yesterday's hearing by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, where we discussed knowledge about cultural life and the creation of a knowledge centre and an analysis institute for culture and art. It was really interesting that it was all over the place that there are different analyses around here. In fact, there are also here, I recognise that there is ■ but that there is simply a lack of some overall analyses of it, some overall studies of it, so that we can get a comprehensive overview of it. This has been achieved in Norway, and it has actually been very, very enjoyable. I really think we need the same thing here in Denmark, and despite the fact that the majority will not vote for this, what I am, of course, sorry about is that I hope that we in the committee can find something that is constructive and that points forward. At any rate, the artists deserve the Folketing, the politicians, to take this issue more seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428115327	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428115346	The debate is open and we can just reach the Minister for Culture before lunch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428115358	The Danish People's Party wants to set up a language technology committee to draw up a strategy to strengthen Danish language technology and thus ensure the Danish language in the digital field. The government would like to consider setting up a language technology committee because it is an area of rapid development and it is important that the Danish language is included in this technology development. The concept of language technology covers a very wide range of aids, games and systems for spelling and grammar control. In some areas, it is only in recent years that technology has reached a stage of development which leads to a wider demand for new products. This is true, for example. speech management in robotics or dialogue programs. Efforts are already being made to keep an eye on the opportunities and challenges. The Danish Language Board has the task of monitoring how the Danish language is affected by language technology, for example. when we are increasingly using spell checking and dictation tools. The language board also has the task of building a language technology network and mapping the language technology landscape, but there may be good sense in putting extra focus on this area and on whether we use all the opportunities that exist to promote work on language technology. The interesting thing is whether there are some linguistic building blocks that can contribute to the development of technology in our particular language. And it is relevant to examine whether in other countries experience has been gained with such linguistic elements or building blocks. The proposal's comments specifically mention the experience of a Dutch project, but there may also be others, for example. Nordic projects, and I am, like the proposers, interested in knowing what such experiences can be used for. What effects does it have, for example? In the Netherlands and Belgium, have efforts been made to strengthen the development of language technology? One possibility is that the Danish Parliament's Committee on Culture will hold a hearing this autumn, possibly together with other parliamentary committees, focusing on experiences with language technology and perhaps gaining experience from other countries, for example. from the Dutch project. In relation to any committee work, I would say that the terms of reference for which the committee must work should probably not embrace everything, because the field of language technology can be extended greatly if all possible aspects are taken into account. That is why we in the Ministry have some suggestions on how to focus a language technology committee work. We would like to contribute to this in the discussion of the motion for a resolution by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, and I would like to point out now that there is already an opportunity to apply for research funding for language technology research and infrastructure. The Government will therefore propose that a possible language technology committee may examine the application of existing schemes to support the development of Danish language technology research and infrastructure, and the committee can then examine whether the existing options are adequate. In relation to the observations made in the motion for a resolution on ensuring education in language technology, I would like to point out that, according to the University Act, it is the individual university that decides which research-based courses are to be applied for in Denmark in its disciplines. The decision to set up new training courses must be based on a professional assessment and on studies on needs and dialogue with customers. Therefore, I would suggest that a possible language technology committee can enter into dialogue with buyers and institutions on whether the need for bachelors and candidates with language technology competence is covered by the current training provision. I would like to contribute to these and, if necessary, other proposals to define and focus the work of the committee in connection with the committee's work. The conclusion is that the government cannot recommend voting in favour of the resolution as it stands, but the government can support the basic idea contained in the proposal to set up a language technology committee and thus focus on this important area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428115938	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. We'll continue the treatment after lunch. The meeting is suspended until 8 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428130019	The sitting is resumed. The debate will continue with the first rapporteur, Mr President. Daniel Toft Jakobsen of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428130047	Thank you. With this resolution, the Danish People's Party wants to oblige the government to set up a language technology committee. The committee will draw up a strategy to strengthen Danish language technology and ensure the Danish language in the digital field, as the proposal states. The comments of the proposal outline a whole range of tasks to be addressed by a possible language technology committee. The Committee shall, inter alia: examine how the state can support the development of Danish language technology, the possibility of providing language technology training, and how a language technology infrastructure can be developed and supported. We can support the ideas behind this motion for a resolution in many ways. The article from the Language Board referred to in the comments to the motion for a resolution tells us in a good way about many of the potentials of language technology, and therefore there is a need to discuss, and preferably in dialogue with the Language Board, what opportunities there are to strengthen Danish language technology and thus also strengthen such technologies as automatic translation, aids for vague reading, intelligent search, speech synthesis and speech recognition in the Danish language. As a small language country, we have to recognise that there is a challenge in developing high-quality language technology solutions and products on normal market conditions, and this situation deserves attention, also because language technology is currently used in very many diverse welfare technologies. In relation to the specific motion for a resolution, the proposers will finance the work of the Language Technology Committee by allocating funds to the 2017 Finance Act. On the part of the Socialists, we will not commit ourselves to funding under the Finance Act at this time, partly because we cannot be sure where the money will then be taken from, and whether there will again be weak groups to hold up, partly because there are many different needs to cover in the cultural field following the cultural cuts that have been made under this government. So the Socialists are happy to enter into a discussion on Danish language technology and how we, from a political point of view, can possibly contribute to strengthening it. We would also like to discuss some of the things that the Minister for Culture mentioned in his speech during the committee procedure, but we do not want to commit ourselves to individual appropriations under a Finance Act for 2017, which we do not yet know, and therefore we cannot support the resolution as it stands right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428130315	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428130320	Thank you, sir. Daniel Toft Jakobsen. After all, the Minister for Culture suggested that the Committee on Culture could organise a hearing. And the Minister also suggested that we could then work towards setting up a committee. Could the rapporteur tell us whether he supports the Minister's wishes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428130346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428130347	I think the proposal for a hearing sounds like a good idea. As I said, this is an important area where there is potential and where there is a need for a discussion on how we can strengthen this area. So I think the proposal for a hearing sounds good. Nor can I rule out the possibility that it might be a good idea to set up a committee to do some work and make some proposals. But it will depend on how it is put together in such a concrete way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428130419	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428130421	Such a committee of language technology must, of course, be made up of experts; it must not be made up of politicians. And, of course, we need to talk to one of them. Danish Language Boards and other language experts to learn how to put together such a committee. However, as I understand the rapporteur, we are also prepared to support that work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428130443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428130445	Well, as I was also trying to say in my rapporteur's speech, we are willing to discuss these things. We would just like to have it in a perhaps more general discussion, because there are other cultural needs too, and because it also matters to us where the money is taken from. That is why we would like to get it into such a more holistic discussion, rather than simply voting in favour of such an individual motion for a resolution without further ado.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428130509	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Britt Baker, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428130514	Thank you. In line with the Minister's statement, we in the Left believe that this is an interesting proposal, both because language technology already fills a lot in the Danes' daily lives, but equally because of the future development opportunities in technology. Language technology exists today in teaching, translation, reading aids and much more. And, as has already been mentioned, in recent years we have seen enormous development and demand in this field. It is undoubtedly a development that will continue, and therefore it is important to consider language technology and its potential for development from a Danish perspective. Against this background, I can easily follow the motivation of the proposers to focus on language technology. It is indeed a very important work. In view of the specific content of this motion for a resolution, the Left basically supports the criticisms made by the Minister before lunch. In addition, we particularly support the Minister's proposals on how to focus on language technology committee work, and we also support the hearing that the Minister mentioned. From the point of view of the Left, the proposals for this work make a great deal of sense and, of course, we will contribute constructively to the discussion in committee itself. So basically, the Left supports focusing on language technology, but overall we are not voting for the content of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428130654	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428130700	Digital development presents us all with great challenges, and this also applies to the preservation of the Danish language. If we leave it alone, we will see a widening gap between the use of new technology and the use of the Danish language in connection with the new technology. It will inevitably create a greater divide in Danish society. In addition, there are the opportunities that we will miss, for example. to use telecommunications technology to help blind and partially sighted, dyslexic and foreign languages; to use voice technology to increase the use of robots in what has been called the fourth industrial revolution; or to use speech technology to prevent work injuries due to one-sided repetitive work. The arm of the museum may even be sent to the Workers' Museum. That is why we also agree with the proposers that there is a need to draw up a plan for ensuring the Danish language in the digital field. Whether this is best done by setting up a language technology committee, as proposed by the proposers, and whether exactly DKK 250 000 should be allocated. We shall look forward to discussing the committee's work and clarifying where exactly the money to be set aside is to be taken from. But the purpose and purpose of the resolution can be supported by the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428130850	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428130855	Thank you for your statement. The Minister mentioned that we could hold a hearing on this as preparatory work for a language technology committee. How does Mr. Søren Søndergaard to this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428130908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428130910	Well, I would say that if the Enhedslisten just came so far with our motion for a resolution that the Minister said that we are going to hold a hearing on them, then we would of course be chaste. So I think that's a good offer, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen's got it, and I'd probably take it. In any case, I think it is a good thing. As I also indicated in my speech, there are a number of things that need to be clarified, and they can be clarified, among other things. to be clarified by consultation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428130933	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428130939	Thank you. It is, of course, a sympathetic proposal and good points are pointed out in the comments. My reaction was immediately: why is it in the Committee on Culture? What about universities and education? The comments even refer to the importance of training and its coherence. So you could say that this might be far too narrow if you had to come up with something with this. Otherwise, you might ask whether this should lead to legislative initiatives. What is to be legislated for? Should we legislate that there are certain words that cannot be found in the Danish language, or what? Questions quickly arise in this area. So we think it is a limited area to discuss in the Folketing. Finally, we must say that at this stage we cannot commit ourselves to any expenditure under the Finance Act either. There will probably be enough problems, without us going around committing ourselves to spending every other day. So we would like to stress that we are saving for better times. So we cannot support the proposal. We are, of course, happy to take part in the committee work on this. I have also noticed that the Minister is proposing a hearing, and we are never opposed to that. We're happy to have a good debate. However, we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428131105	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428131108	Thanks to the rapporteur, who asks why it is in the Committee on Culture and why it is the cultural rapporteurs who have to take a position on this. This is due to the fact that languages belong to the Ministry of Culture • Danish Language Boards belong to the Ministry of Culture, and ordered.dk is also placed there, and therefore it is also very natural that the Minister of Culture decides on this. Such a committee should actually just make some recommendations on what to do. And whether this can be done within the Ministry's area of responsibility, or whether, for example, it can be done within the Ministry's area of responsibility. The universities accept the recommendations that are then up to the individual areas to decide on. However, as I hear the rapporteur, we are in favour of a hearing. In fact, we are also in favour of a linguistic technology committee in some form, but we are not quite clear on the funding yet if it is going to cost money at all. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428131211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428131213	No, it is a fairly clear interpretation if it is considered that I should have expressed my support for the work of the committee. I do not think so, otherwise it is at least a misunderstanding, as I pointed out just now that it is our view that universities are actually working on these parts. It is part of the process, of training, etc. for those who continue to work in our education system. And that is actually why I asked the question where I wondered that it was not in the area it belonged to. And then it would also be another ministry if you had to continue working on it. That's kind of just what I was talking about. But, of course, we are not opposed to a discussion. Now it is a motion for a resolution, as per per year. This is a matter for the Commission and the Council of Ministers. So it ends up in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, and I am not just sitting there looking out the window. I'd like to promise you that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428131257	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428131300	So, the rapporteur is in favour of having a hearing on this, and I suppose the rapporteur is also in favour of setting up a linguistic technology committee with experts to advise us after we have heard the experts in a hearing, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428131317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428131319	I am completely leaning on the Minister for Culture's comment about what is going on and have a certain positive attitude, but still a wonder that it is here, it lands and so on. I'm sure I'll also say that later in the process, and it may be that it's having a moving day at some point, and then we'll look at it there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428131335	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428131340	I have learned today that one starts by saying that a proposal is sympathetic if one understands the reason for putting it forward but does not intend to support it. So I would like to start by calling this a sympathetic resolution. For completely like the proposers, the alternative is also concerned with how we keep the Danish language, which is a very small language, alive and constantly evolving, in a digital reality. Because, of course, it is important that we keep up with and develop the Danish language, so that it is also adapted to the technologies that are and we get it incorporated all the way around. I think it was quite a good proposal from the Minister to hold a hearing on this in the first place. We can agree with that, because then we can all learn more about what the next step should be. But I also want to strike a blow for the contemporary writers. When we talk about the Danish language as a small language area that needs development and to be kept alive, then it is also important that we support our contemporary authors, and that we do not go in and cut back on their help and support, as has been done. When you cut back on the Danish Arts Foundation, you also suffer from contemporary literature, which also helps to support the development of the Danish language. So it was just a page note that I think is important to include here also in relation to languages. We cannot only talk about it digitally, we need to see it in a whole, in a reality that is both digital and physical.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428131510	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428131517	Thank you. I have to come up with a different word from sympathetic, because that is always something you say when you end up voting no. I think that is a good suggestion. It is a very good proposal to look at this area and I think it is justified very well in the comments. I can see the relevance and topicality. We are voting against the proposal itself and, in fact, it is only because of the last sentence, namely that we are already beginning to talk about financial law negotiations. I do not think that quite belongs in this Chamber. But as I actually understood from the Minister, he would also very much like to accommodate the Danish People's Party and the debate we have here by setting up a committee and conducting a hearing and we will support that. Whether funds should then be set aside and that will be part of some financial law negotiations may well be. But it may be something that the Danish People's Party will have to take along at that time. We can fully support the intentions and actually believe that we can vote against funding through the Finance Act, but still believe that something is happening, because we have been given the Minister's word for that today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428131631	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428131642	A whole series of sensible considerations have been made here from the platform to this proposal, which I shall not repeat, except to say that we fully agree that this is a fine proposal that we must continue to work on. I think we should find out in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport afterwards how we are going to do this. There may be different ways to do that. However, as I have said, we are very open to various options and are in favour of this being promoted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428131718	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428131723	Thank you. The Minister suggested that we conduct a hearing which might lead to a language technology committee. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428131733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428131734	We are very open to that. I think that is quite a good proposal as one possibility. There may also be other options. But we are certainly very positive about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428131745	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428131753	We also think that this is a very good proposal. We also support the fact that we support the Danish language and its development, and we think that the Minister has made some good initiatives in relation to how we proceed with the proposal, among other things. a hearing, which we support. So we support the intentions and ideas contained in the motion for a resolution and look forward to the further work in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428131821	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428131825	Thank you. After all, the Minister proposed a hearing and subsequently a possible setting-up of a language technology committee. What does the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428131835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428131836	We support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428131839	Thank you. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428131859	Thank you. If I were a member, I would perhaps be surprised today, because virtually all the parties' rapporteurs call the proposal a sympathetic proposal and a good proposal, which is supported and which you think there are many good points in the debate, but you cannot vote for it. It is often the Folketing in a nutshell, and that is particularly what goes beyond the resolution. But if I am relatively happy, it is because I can at least note that eight out of nine parties would like to participate in a hearing and possibly set up a language technology committee in one form or another. Then there was a single party, the Liberal Alliance, that could not take a position at all, and that is fair enough, and that is the right thing to do. I just want to outline briefly why this is so important. We all have a cell phone like that. You can talk to it, and when you talk to it, it does the thing. This is due to language technology, but it could be done many years before it could be done in Danish, because we simply did not have the necessary tools available to the large multinationals. If we had now had it, Siri could have spoken Danish quite quickly after it came in English and German. Let me give you another example. I remember that Enhedslisten and, to this extent, the Danish People's Party were very upset that a document from the EU could not be translated from English to Danish. If language technology had now been developed so that good machine translations could be made and then even fine-tuned by people, it would have been possible to get a translation quite quickly. So these are just two specific examples of what language technology really does. I know, and most of the rapporteurs have also mentioned it, that it is important for the Danish language, and it is. Language technology is crucial. Many of the rapporteurs have probably also noticed that when they sit and write in Word, it may be some strange suggestions that Word, Microsoft's word processor, makes. It may also be strange red lines coming under words that are really right, and this is because language technology has not been developed well enough to enable the big multinational companies to make things for the Danes in Danish that are in order. Having said that, I will accept the Minister's outstretched hand. As far as I understand the Minister, he has said that he supports the proposal and the intention. The motion for a resolution itself cannot be accepted. I would very much like to take this up in the Committee on Culture so that we can have a hearing as soon as possible, preferably in the autumn, if possible, and I also hope that we can set up a language technology committee. Such a committee should not be made up of politicians. It must be made up of professionals, of people who know it, and there I am sure that the Ministry of Culture will also help us point out who it could be. I know that the Danish Language Board would very much like to talk about this. Your director, Sabine Kirchmeier, is very knowledgeable in this area. She knows a lot about it and cares about it, and the Minister is right that the Language Board is already doing something so small, but they also need the support of the Folketing and the government's support. Then there were also some comments about education. And that is not because a committee has to interfere in what courses universities offer, but it could help universities by recommending how such language technology training could be, and it is ultimately up to the universities themselves to find out how and whether they want to have such an education set up. There is no doubt that we need graduates both at bachelor level and at master level, because if we do not have it in Denmark, we do not have the opportunity to develop the technology either. So there's money in it, too. After all, we want to be a technological progress nation, and here we are lagging behind other countries. I think we could do better in the years to come. The first step is, of course, to get a hearing started so that we can all learn more about the complex issue. And the next thing is hopefully to set up a language technology committee that can work on it and make some recommendations and then we can take a position. You have to have patience in politics, and I have that patience. What I welcome is that, after all, there is support and understanding for the fact that we need to do something for language technology, so that Danish is also competitive in this area. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428132420	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428132424	I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party for presenting some views that are fully in line with the views we have. I can only sign for that. However, I have a question because it has been raised in the debate and this is about the fact that we are deciding on the content of the Finance Act. I would just like to ask: is it the case that the proposal for funding here is part of the Danish People's Party's financial bill? And has the Danish People's Party already drafted an overall financial bill at this stage? Because I have to admit, Enhedslisten hasn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428132502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428132504	That is a reasonable question, and it is also a good question. No, we have not drawn up a single financial bill in the field of culture, but this will form part of our input in the field of culture in the context of financial law negotiations. It was one way we could finance it. It could also be financed by means of reprioritisations within the Ministry of Culture. It is not certain that it will cost $250,000. It may cost much less; it may be that we can do it for no money. The hearing and the continued work will show that. I hope I have answered the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428132543	Is there anything else from Mr. Søren Søndergaard? No. Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428132601	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Transport and Building. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428132623	Thank you for that, President. Road noise is a major social problem which unfortunately affects many people along our roads. I have a great deal of understanding for the people who live near a permanent source of noise, such as a motorway. The decision of the Road Directorate also shows that noise from motorways is being seen as a nuisance, and that is why we must also do what we can to reduce noise along our roads. No doubt about it. However, what we end up doing in order to reduce noise must also have an effect, and it must be able to respond socio-economically. The proposal we are discussing today requires the government to put forward legislative proposals which, on the basis of noise measurements, allow municipalities to ask the Minister for Transport and Building to reduce the speed of motorways. This shall apply to selected sections of motorways passing through or adjacent to the municipality concerned. The motion for a resolution obliges the Minister for Transport and Building either to comply with this request or to give a well-founded explanation as to why it cannot be complied with. But does what is proposed also have an effect on noise levels? You could ask yourself. The Road Directorate has previously carried out a socio-economic analysis of the gains and costs of reducing speed as a noise reducing agent. The analysis dealt with Køge Bugt Motorway and the inner part of Holbæk Motorway and was that the speed was reduced from 110 km/h. 80 km/h. evening and night hours on weekdays and 24 hours on weekends. The analysis showed that the overall socio-economic result is a cost of approx. 2.4 billion kr. at present value over 10 years • 2.4 billion. kr. This means that it will only become socially economically viable if the positive effect on noise, accidents and emissions is approx. Ten times greater than calculated. The analysis also showed that if at least a significant reduction in noise is to be achieved, there will be a need to reduce noise by at least approx. 2-3 dB. This corresponds to a speed reduction of at least 20-30 km/h. If you want a significant and clear change in noise, there will be a need for a noise reduction of approx. 5 dB. This is equivalent to a speed reduction of 50 km/h. So it is very significant speed reductions that need to be made before we achieve a clear change in noise levels. And if we do that, it will at the same time mean a significant socio-economic loss, mainly because of increased travel times for drivers, and the government does not want that. Both for the government and for the conciliation parties behind the agreement on a green transport policy, road noise is something that is taken seriously, and I would like to congratulate the various transport rapporteurs who are present at these meetings, because I have only seen that all the rapporteurs are very, very interested in us doing something about this. In fact, we have also promised each other that if and when we would once have the opportunity, we would look a lot at whether we could create a noise pool. In 2009, the conciliation circle set aside 400 million. kr. We are all aware that this pool has been fully implemented in the fight against noise along state roads and railways. However, I have agreed, as I said, with the conciliation circle, that we must allocate funds to a new pool to combat noise along the roads of the state, when there are again available funds in the Infrastructure Fund, i.e. unemployed, and that is also what we need, so that we have an opportunity for them to be available. This is the investment challenge we have discussed so much, and we will do so again. In summary, however, we in the government are very concerned about doing something to combat noise and, of course, we support the general work, but it must also be able to respond socio-economically and have an effect, and unfortunately that is not the situation with this proposal. In view of this, the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428133101	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428133105	I would like to make a comment on the socio-economic calculations with which we are always knocked in the head when something is proposed in one area or another. I just want to hear something. Are there any socio-economic calculations of the many, many health consequences that noise has in terms of sleep problems, stress, cardiovascular diseases, high blood pressure, and what do I know?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428133138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428133140	If we are to have a technical review of the calculations themselves, I would just recommend that the committee send it to me during the debate, because I will refrain from going into the details of what is included. But it's true that something like noise affects people a lot. This applies to all kinds of noise, by the way. That is why we must remember that it is not just a type of noise that affects people. It makes all the noise that people are exposed to. It is of course very important that we combat it in all the ways we can and in all its forms. I agree with the questioner on that. But I cannot stand here and say exactly what is included. But it is calculated in the way that socio-economic studies are always calculated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428133229	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428133231	This is a fact, according to both the Ministry of the Environment, and I also believe that the Road Directorate is the main source of noise in the country. Of course, I did not expect the Minister to know in detail how those calculations are linked. But I think this is a devastating phenomenon for the debate, because we have no idea how those calculations are linked together. I bet you haven't calculated what this means, what consequences it has in terms of sickness and what consequences it has in terms of lost working hours, because people have to sign up sick and can't put up for work. I bet it's not part of the calculations, or else we'll have to know what weight it's included in if it's included.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428133320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428133321	I'll take note of what Mr. Henning Hyllested thinks. And, of course, it stands to believers when Mr. Henning Hyllested will actually make a bet. But I would now like to say that I will also reserve the right to check with those who have it, so I am absolutely sure. But it always impresses me when Mr. Henning Hyllested knows he'll even bet on it. Well, then that sounds convincing. But I think we took it the other way around, if that's acceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428133350	That is very good, because I do not think that bets should be placed in the Parliamentary Chamber. The next brief remark is from Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428133359	I should like to know if the Minister is aware of the study from the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, which shows that traffic noise can be attributed annually to between 200 and 500 deaths.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428133412	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428133414	Now, I happen to know that investigation, but it's more because of my previous job. So I know that those investigations have been there. But I must also say to the questioner, so that we get it cut out completely: we have to remember each other that this is something that has been known for many years. I am not going to stand here and say it, but I just know that I did not notice that there were some proposals from the previous government, even when the SF was fortunate enough to have the post, and I think it has something to do with that it is very, very costly to start doing it this way. Noise pools are better because you put up defenses with screens and other things. So I think it's because of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428133458	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428133459	I like it when the minister connects it successfully that the SF sat in government. I mean, not everyone does it. But I have to say that when you make social calculations and we in other contexts are willing to invest even very large sums of money in health care to save between 200 and 500 lives a year, I think it will have to be included with corresponding weight when we make social calculations of what it takes to reduce noise.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428133530	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428133531	Everyone has to have the attitude they want. I just think that if you want a society like ours, and I would like to do so, you also have to accept that there are, of course, some challenges that you cannot deal with for everyone, but you can always have the will and the desire to do so, and it is not lacking on my part. I would like to take part in this, and I have also brought up when we met last time, that it could be one of the first things we focus on when there is again an opportunity to invest some money. I have been pleased that the rapporteurs have thought so, so I think this is an important matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428133604	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Prehn, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428133618	On the part of the Socialist Group, too, we are deeply concerned about the major problem of traffic noise. I think we all know stories from the real life that there are people who are neighbours to motorways who are simply suffering from these noise nuisances. There are people who can't sit around and relax. There are people who can't sit on the terrace and enjoy a cup of coffee. There are people who cannot have the window open, and there are people who have difficulty sleeping at night because of noise. So there is no doubt that noise from motorways is a gigantic problem. We had deputies in the Parliament's Transport Committee, among others. From Kolding. We have heard reports from the western part of Copenhagen. We have also heard reports from the Dust Ring area. So it's a lot of places around the country that it's really a problem. And, as has also been mentioned in the debate here, there are people who suffer from stress, cardiovascular diseases and others precisely as a consequence of noise. So, from the Socialist side, we are very concerned that something is being done in the area of noise control. What we are proposing by the Social Democrats is that we jointly in the Danish Parliament should draw up a noise control strategy, so that the pool that lies in the green conciliation circle that the Minister mentioned can be included in it, so that we allocate a considerable amount of money to make noise shields possible. But it may also be that we need to include other kinds of proposals in the fight against noise. It could be that you get better, intelligent traffic management, so that in places where there is a need to reduce the noise challenge, you can reduce the speed slightly, but also for other reasons. It may also be that we can work more with green transport in the truck sector, where we know that Danish drivers who are members of the union 3F get courses at AMU to drive more environmentally friendly. It acts among other things. About going slower. We know that trucks are one of the loudest things on the freeway. We can also do more to avoid these boring elephant shells. By the way, it is very annoying when you get on the freeway yourself that there is a truck driver who thinks: I spend just five minutes of the other drivers' time overtaking. It is very stressful for the driver, but it is also something that causes a lot of noise when driving fast in the truck. It could be another kind of asphalt. Compare Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution from yesterday we know that there are asphalt types with so-called low rolling resistance. It is also something that could be worked on to implement. There are types of tyres that cause lower noise. So there is a whole lot that can be included in the noise strategy. The specific motion for a resolution tabled by the Socialist People's Party calls for the individual municipality to be able to raise objections to the Minister, and then it is almost in the motion for a resolution that the Minister must correct, or he must have a very good explanation. That may sound very reasonable, but we are therefore concerned about this proposal from the Socialist Group. We can imagine that there will be competition between municipalities to come up with as many suggestions as possible to slow down and we will have an inappropriate control of the speed of the motorway. When we have spent billions on building motorways in Denmark, it is of course to ensure some mobility. So it would be very unfortunate if you were suddenly only to drive 80 km/h. Some people have argued that this should be done, for example. must be in the evening or at night that you have to drive slower. I also understand that those who are neighbors to these highways would like to be quiet at this time. But I also see the driver driving on a completely free highway where you are the only driver, and suddenly there is the sign down to 80 km/h. Then I think that you will be very long in the face and that it is quite unreasonable to take account of the possibility of comprehension. That is why I think it is a proposal that is out of proportion and that will have a lot of inappropriateness in it. I think we can go much further with other measures. As I said, one of the proposals could well be more intelligent traffic management, so that very vulnerable places slow down. But in general we see that it is about setting up noise barriers, it is about getting an asphalt that dampens the noise, it is about getting some types of tyres that dampen the noise, and then it is especially about trucks that make a lot of noise about driving at a lower speed. For ordinary passenger cars, there is also a trend towards more electric car driving. There's the challenge almost the opposite • it surprises people in traffic because the electric cars don't say anything. There are companies that talk about sounding just to warn people. Then it is perhaps too much for the municipalities to outstrip each other in order to slow down the motorways. That is why we do not support this resolution, although we share in every possible way the intention that noise in traffic should be combated, because there are a lot of people being molested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428134129	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428134136	Well, that's right when Mr. Simpson... Rasmus Prehn says we're building a lot of highways to help people go. But we are building them to help people at all. There are a lot of victims. Since we are now building these motorways for the sake of people, is it reasonable that there are a lot of people besides those who drive on the roads who, if I may say so, are paying the price? Of course, sir, I hear him. Rasmus Prehn come up with a number of good suggestions to lower the noise. But what is the probability that we find the money for it right away? Isn't this a very fast and a very easy way to reduce noise?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428134220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428134222	I am very pleased that Mr Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party recognises that we Social Democrats are concerned about noise and have a number of concrete proposals. Some will cost money, but some can also be implemented by changing some rules. I'm glad that's acknowledged. If we do not support the specific proposal, it is because it will have a lot of inappropriateness. If we want to combat stress, we do not do so by telling the family father or mother that they will now come home to their children later, because there is now a noise problem area that would like them to slow down when they come home from their night shift. There is plenty of space on the freeway, but you have to go down to 80 km/h, where you could have driven 110 km/h. or 130 km/h. So there are some inappropriate things in this. We believe there are many other and wiser ways to fight this. So let us do this together rather than take out a single proposal which will have as many negative side effects as this resolution wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428134322	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428134324	I agree that this can present some challenges in some municipalities, which will often have a greater interest in slowing down speed precisely with them, and then it can be higher in the neighbouring municipality. But could this proposal, together with other things, not help to ensure that in the construction of the roads, sufficient consideration was given not only to Mr. Rasmus Prehn mentions the family father who wants to go home faster, but to the thousands of people who are forced to live in a noise hell? I mean, these are the drawbacks that have to be weighed against each other. But couldn't you plan these roads? We have seen it in the vicinity of Copenhagen, where thousands of people are plagued by noise every day.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428134408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428134410	There is no doubt that when we plan, we should be much better at taking into account that people are not exposed to noise. That is also why, on the socialist side, we have been very opposed to a proposal by the Socialist People's Party to abolish the reservation in Ring 5, which will mean that the noise and noise around the Copenhagen West will be even greater in the years ahead. And there are no alternative ways to relieve this. So planning is absolutely necessary. We believe that municipalities have good opportunities to help with planting, including with trees, to reduce noise. We hope they will do so to ensure that these citizens suffer as little as possible from the fact that there is a road past them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428134448	The next brief remark is from Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428134453	Yesterday it was wrong that there were too many proposals and it was too big a package and Enhedslisten should have focused on a few concrete proposals. It was then in terms of environmental impact and conversion to green transport. Now it is suddenly wrong when we talk about noise pollution that the SF makes a very concrete proposal. It is a simple proposal to combat noise. I don't think that's entirely related. Otherwise, what is the difference between what the rapporteur says about intelligent traffic management, which aims to reduce speed, and the SF resolution? It's the same thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428134533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428134536	After all, it is not the amount of proposals in themselves that makes whether or not the proposals are qualified. Fortunately, that is what we are focusing on. When I raised the criticism yesterday, it was because they were rather unfocused. There were some things that were plenty of, and then there were some pretty important suggestions that weren't so many of them. When we turn to this specific proposal, it is because it will put enormous pressure on the individual municipalities to approach the minister and pressure him to reduce noise there, rather than quietly putting objective criteria in place. If there is noise equivalent to so and so many decibels, this intelligent traffic management can help to dampen traffic, while intelligent traffic management will have a lot of other purposes. I see, then, that a driver driving home a very late evening or nighttime one summer can drive something faster than you can today. You can then help to measure that, and then you can adjust the recommended speed upwards, whereas if it is smooth, wet or winter or something else, then you drive the speed down a little, so road safety is greater. There are many more advantages to intelligent traffic management than by the municipalities having to sit and write in to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428134648	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428134651	It is just as often at night that the problem is the worst, because that is where you get your sleep upset. And if there is something that is devastating to a life and health and the way one can function the next day at work, it is to have disturbed night sleep, to be awakened several times at night. I now think it makes very good sense to make a general reduction in speed where there is, as Mr. Karsten Hønge said, thousands of people are harassed by noise from the highways.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428134722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428134724	If you had to have a general rule at night, I think it might be that for such things as freight transport, which is very noisy, you could have these slightly lower speeds, which also play along with what I mentioned in the rapporteur's speech on green transport. For private carism, I see some challenges in it. I see this single mother who's been on night shift as SOSU assistant or as a nurse in a hospital or something and wants to go home. Then there is a completely free highway, and there is summer weather and dry on the road, so there is no uncertainty, and then you have to lie and drive 80 or 90 km/h. On the freeway, when you want to get home quickly. I think that's a lot of people are gonna think that's wrong. That is why I am opposed to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428134805	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428134817	It is a proposal that few people cannot sympathise with, to combat noise and road noise. Fortunately, we also do this through different pools. This is a very, very narrow proposal, I think. After all, we have noise pools for new roads where noise-free asphalt is used where it is necessary for those who live close to the plants. But to go out and reduce the appearance by lowering the speed of some highly classified roads, which we spend billions on building to solve some transport problems and bring people from A to B quickly, is in the Danish People's Party's optics completely hollow in the head. This is not the same as not being interested in reducing noise and helping the people who are plagued by it. However, the result of the fact that a lot of municipalities are demanding to slow down on different routes will probably only be that the police could have even more places to put their photocars. Then SF suggests that this should primarily be in the evening and night hours. But there's no traffic. That's not where the noise problems are. It's a rush hour problem. That's where the noise is. It's not like it's time. 2:00 a.m. because there's a single car coming. I don't think that's gonna wake anyone up. A lot of this highway noise is this buzzing noise. When we talk about what may be harmful to health, I would say that it is not, after all, because there is a motorcycle passing by that makes too much noise, because it is gone within 10 seconds. No, it's this buzzing noise that's always related to, among other things. rush hour. So it's noise barriers, it's asphalt and stuff we need to look at. We must not reduce comprehension by slowing down speed. I could ask SF a question. There are plenty of roads that people live close up, 3 metres from the road. You can drive 80 km/h there. I think they are more troubled by noise than many are in connection with motorways. But it is not because we do not recognise that there can be a problem on motorways. This is perhaps particularly true of some of those who have been built many years ago, and perhaps a little too close was built because it was not so bad then, and in the meantime traffic volumes have so increased and a noise problem has arisen. So that's why we have these pools to make noise protection and maybe change the asphalt coating in some places. So in the Danish People's Party we are absolutely prepared to help fight these problems, but not by slowing down our motorways. They are built to create comprehension, they are built to enable you to drive a little faster than other places, and of course you have to be able to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428135108	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428135112	I'm gonna give Mr. Knox right away. Kim Christiansen is right that this is a narrow proposal, in other words, as Mr. Kim Christiansen says. But it is in an attempt to get out of the impasse we are in. 'Cause if mr. Kim Christiansen acknowledges that noise is the great challenge that it is, I would like to ask: how long should we wait for money to be put into the noise pool, instead of taking hold of a tool that we can actually use here and now and which is not in this way associated with costs?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428135142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428135144	It is at least associated with some social costs if private drivers are going to spend half an hour more on getting to work, for example, because the motorways actually built to increase accessibility will Mr. Karsten Hønge has to lie and sneak off on. That doesn't make any sense. It's gonna have some costs. It will then also cost business a great deal if you suddenly have to take an extra rest as a lorry driver, because you are now going to have to drive some speeds where you cannot achieve what you have to do in the given time. I don't know if sir. Karsten Hønge makes some ideas about how much it costs per hour to keep a truck running. But it will have some costs for business if you are suddenly only allowed to drive 70 km/h. on parts of the lines, on the highway. And that is where we are going down, I heard the Minister say if this is really going to have a noise effect that is hitting something.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428135234	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428135236	The routes in question are, after all, where the roads have been built up along the residential areas through the cities. And it is of no use that, when it comes to weighing down the disadvantages, what is a balance between the costs and the costs is that there are some people who just need to be allowed to rush through to the detriment of the thousands of people who live in noise hell. I would like to say that this is also a proposal for a dialogue with the municipalities. And the people we have chosen in the municipalities are surely not completely empty-headed in terms of being able to have a dialogue with the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428135309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428135311	The last thing I'm gonna do is give Mr. Karsten Hønge is right. And I certainly cannot be attacked for standing up here on the platform and claiming that these were stupid people we had to sit out in the municipalities. In any case, I have never said so, and I do not think so either. But if we suddenly have to get all the municipalities to report to this, there will spread, as Mr. Rasmus Prehn was talking about some competition about who can bid in with the most stretches compared to getting the speed down. We have the Vejdirektoratet, who evaluates it here, and many times they also assess it because of the citizen's requests that are coming. And, of course, we are dealing with this seriously. But I'd like to join you, sir. Karsten Hønge, that we shall finally have some money filled in when we meet and negotiate. In other words, when some money comes, we are very positive about setting aside money for further noise reduction.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428135401	Thank you. There is also a brief comment from Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428135405	Sir. Kim Christiansen talks a lot about the high costs this will bring to the industry, not least the transport industry. And it is certain that there will probably be some expenditure on it; how much they will be, is not well known, no one has calculated that. But what about the costs and costs of medical examinations, hospitalizations, lost working hours because you get sick and cannot go to work? What about the costs? It is also a cost to the individual in terms of quality of life lost and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428135443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428135444	Well, I am in complete agreement with that, but just as little as I do not have calculations showing what it will give of losses for both private individuals, but also for business, Henning Hyllested has hardly calculated what this costs in terms of health in relation to people who are noisy. At least I haven't seen any calculations for people who have noise from the highway.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428135510	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428135512	No, but that is exactly what I regret; when you keep talking about costs, we will have to talk about them completely, including the external costs, if I may say so, which means that we are carrying more and more both in cars and in lorries. So that is just like where I appealed, and that is what I was going to ask the Minister. I think we will get the debate off the wrong track if we do not take it all along with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428135540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428135541	But perhaps it would have been appropriate to say whether we should not try to sit down and get some calculations on what is actually the cost of this, both for one party and for the other, because then we might have a slightly more enlightened basis to go out and decide on such a thing. And then it may well be that there could be a few lines where you shouldn't drive 130, but only drive 100. By the way, this is something that makes road safety so many other places on the motorway. But just to go out and say that now the municipalities can come up with a wide range of wishes about where they would like us to sneak off, I think would simply be a slippery slope.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428135612	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428135623	As our normal rapporteur has no opportunity to be present, I have promised to give the speech here. Traffic noise is a serious problem for many Danes living close to a motorway or railway. I would therefore like to thank the SF for highlighting with this proposal the reduction of traffic noise. The motion for a resolution requires the government to submit a legislative proposal allowing municipalities to request the Minister of Transport to reduce the speed limit on selected sections on the basis of noise measurements. The Left cannot support this proposal. If you want to achieve a significant and clear change in noise, this requires a reduction of the speed limit by approx. 50 km/h. This will give drivers a significantly longer journey time, and according to the Vejdirektoratet's analysis it will also have high socio-economic costs with such a reduction in mobility. The socio-economic costs are essential factors in the legislative process and, in this case, lowering speed limits will mean a significant socio-economic loss. On the other hand, the Left is concerned that in future traffic agreements we will also have funds allocated to the targeted reduction of traffic noise along the roads of the state. Furthermore, in future road construction projects, we must focus on reducing noise nuisances from neighbours.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428135745	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428135801	Thank you. The Enhedslisten thinks this is a very good proposal, and not least on the basis that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency points out that there are around 780,000-785,000 homes in this country, which has a noise load above the Danish Environmental Protection Agency's indicative limit value, and that traffic is the overriding and main source of noise pollution in Denmark. The European Union has created a noise directive at some point, and on that basis a noise regulation has been drawn up, which also says that the municipalities must draw up noise action plans, and they can be read out to identify and prioritise the problems and situations that need to be improved. Municipalities also need to find out what measures have been taken, but also what measures the responsible authorities intend to take for the future, as it says. If you then dig a little further into it, you will also see that various things have been done, and at some point a leaflet has been prepared, called Control of noise, which clearly shows that municipalities can operate with noise-reducing coating, but they can also ask the police for speed reductions on noise-laden sections. That is one of the aims of the SF's motion for a resolution here. I just have to say that the possibility exists in this way. The municipalities today can ask the police for this. I have no knowledge of how many places it has happened with a background of detected noise pollution, but I can only say that the possibility exists. In addition, municipalities can also steer heavy traffic bypassing residential areas. It is taking place, I think, to a large extent, as far as I am aware. So we think in many ways that this is a very good proposal, which I think we should continue to work on, and this follows on from what the municipalities have already been imposed, as it were, through the so-called noise plans. The necessary knowledge of noise is available to this extent and it is quite clear that noise is a heavy burden and that it poses major health problems. I do not think they have been mapped out in such detail in relation to noise, but as Mr. Kim Christiansen said that it was something that could perhaps be worked on here during the committee work and started to get some calculations on what the health consequences are, in total, of the noise load that exists. We think this proposal is a good one. In our opinion, this is just one of the measures that needs to be taken in a whole series. This, of course, does not only do it, certainly not, it is one of a whole series of proposals, but we think it is a very good move, and we have no doubt that it will actually have an effect, not least at night, where noise is, after all, extremely annoying, what I also mentioned in one of my questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428140141	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428140150	Of course, there is no one here in the Folketing who does not think that noise is a huge problem. We have heard that from all sides, at least until now. So that's not what we're discussing. What we are discussing is whether the means used here are preferable to many of the other things we do. We have to say here that we believe that going in and saying to the municipalities that they should now start interfering in how fast they have to drive on the motorway in order to slow down is a bad idea. I can understand on many of the red parties at least Enhedslisten and so also SF • that it doesn't mean much how fast one gets forward. When I mention it, it is because 1 minute in relation to the train fund is 28.5 billion. kr. and a bridge at Vejle to 4 billion. kr. It costs between half a billion and a billion if you drive a train. And I guess that amount is spread out on the very few running on that train. So this whole time factor thing doesn't matter, I think we should be careful. It is really important that we have a high level of mobility in Denmark, so that we can get back and forth relatively quickly, so it is some other means that need to be used. In fact, I think that Rasmus Prehn explained very clearly all the other alternatives that exist. But limiting mobility also seems strange to me to come from people who are strongly in favour of the hour model being fantastic, regardless of what it costs. So I want it to be my main point. Then we say no to this proposal to slow down, but yes to a great deal of force on the efforts to boost noise protection. I am pleased to recall that some time ago the Minister mentioned that a three-digit million ECU for noise abatement is just ahead of us as soon as we can be allowed to spend the money in the Infrastructure Fund. We would really like to take part in this, but we do not want to get the municipalities involved in this and not, as a starting point, to slow down the pace. Now that so many other efforts are being made to increase speed so that people can get faster from A to B, we do not think this is the right medicine, since the effect is not very high in relation to the costs that come with it either. That is also what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428140436	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, but I should just like to recommend that you remember to say Mr, even when it is to Mr. Rasmus Prehn. The first brief remark is from Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428140449	Well, I totally agree with Mr. Knox. Villum Christensen's consideration that time, of course, means something. It is quite clear, and it is, whether you drive a train, a bus or a car. Of course. But what we are dealing with here is the balance between the disadvantages. Of course, there will be a disadvantage in driving slower. It's obvious. However, we are just facing enormous challenges in some particular areas where motorways and other roads have been built very close to where thousands of people live, and this has some dramatic costs for the people who live and live in those places. It is a balance in which we say that, since there is no money to make noise screens and ramifications and the noise reducing asphalt, it was in each nearby place to make life a little more tolerable for those people by slowing down until they could afford those things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428140541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428140543	I fully understand the point, and I also understand the dilemma. This is always the field in which we are like politicians. There are pros and cons. However, as the Minister also mentioned, it is very, very little that we achieve by the extra damage we cause people when they cannot get from A to B quickly. We have to look at it in relation to proportions. Otherwise, however, I fully agree with what the rapporteur says and, above all, with the fact that motorways are very close to the places where people live. But remember also that it sometimes goes the other way: People settle very much close to the highway, because it is attractive and fast to get on the highway. I know that from municipal planning. So it's a little both ways. It's not just the state that's gonna come and patch a highway past a residential neighborhood. It also sometimes goes the other way, unfortunately. That shows both sides of the dilemma.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428140641	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428140642	I am, of course, aware that there are some people who would like to live close to a motorway. But then it's typical of exits and exits from the highways. What we are experiencing in the surrounding area of Copenhagen is motorways that roar right past people's windows at a distance of a few metres. And it can say that it is to the delight of those who are sitting in the car, but to the huge disadvantage of those who live in the apartments. And then you can always discuss how much you get from this. But Mr. Wouldn't Mr Christensen agree with me that if we're just sitting here waiting to get money for a noise pool, nothing will happen to those residents?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428140720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428140721	In fact, I think there are so many of us who agree on this that that is not what we are going to be waiting for long ago. There is always a queue when the infrastructure fund funds are to be used and they must be used. But I definitely think this is something that affects so many people. I guess we all know someone who can't sit out in their garden at night, and it's not hard to argue in this area. So I still think that we really need to have the proportions when we assess whether these bets correspond to the effects we get out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428140754	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428140759	That's right for Mr. Knox. Villum Christensen's comment on mobility: It does not really matter, at least not in the eyes of Enhedslisten, how to get there quickly. It is quite true that there is, of course, a gain in coming forward quickly, but it does not matter whether you are using a dirty transport, as the cars are, or whether you are using green transport, as the train is. Just that point. But again, we have to hear that this proposal is not working. That's not gonna work, according to sir. Villum Christensen. All kinds of other measures work. So, what kind of action is this, and why isn't this a part of a palette? I fully agree that this proposal does not do so alone, I do not think the SF believes so, but as part of a number of other proposals it is probably an excellent means of action where it is timely.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428140842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428140843	In fact, I share some of the same concerns that Mr. Rasmus Prehn mentioned, about the race one can imagine there might come between the municipalities to contact the minister in order to lower the speed of their territory. So I'm not very excited about the model that's here. There was something I'd rather do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428140907	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428140908	Actually, I don't quite understand that. I think that when there is a prospect of having a motorway somewhere in the country, then the municipalities are putting up with their deputies, and it is usually with representatives of the local business community, and strongly urges that they should now have this motorway. So why the municipalities should go into a race to slow down where it could do good, I simply cannot quite see.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428140934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428140935	However, as I read the motion for a resolution, the municipalities can almost press the Minister to say yes if the Minister does not have good reasons, and I think it is easy to find out, as is the case today, with ordinary dialogue. I do not really like being able to dictate it to the official authority in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428140958	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428141006	Thank you very much. Traffic noise has evidently many negative health effects ranging from increased risk of blood clots over diabetes to strokes and stress-related diseases at all. There is therefore a fairly high level of evidence of the negative health effects of traffic noise. That is why, in the alternative, we are absolutely pleased that the SF has tabled this motion for a resolution. In fact, we find it interesting that the municipalities can be actively involved in the work of remedying the noise nuisances of their citizens. There is therefore also a requirement in the proposal that this should be a real problem. So we don't see it as a race like that either. We see that an opportunity is being laid out for the municipalities to use some resources to uncover these noise nuisances. And if these noise nuisances are large enough for it to be topical and timely to do something about the noise in an area where it's hard to get noise screens installed, then this could be a way to do it. The idea of making a dynamic sign in noise exposed places, and especially for speed reductions in evening and night hours, we are really, really happy about this, but it is clear that we also need to look at what effect it can have and how much noise reduction we can achieve in order to find a proper balance. But it must also be seen in the context of the fact that a lot of other noise reducing measures must of course be taken. So if you can grab 3 dB here and 3 dB there, it ends up being something that has a big effect. So the alternative fully agrees with the proposers that attention should be paid to tackling the traffic noise problems. But, of course, a lot of other areas also need to be addressed: noise protection, low-noise tyres have been mentioned, low-noise asphalt, noise requirements for vehicles, more electric cars maybe. And then I almost have to mention that for example. willow trees turn out to have a real, really good noise reducing effect. But the alternative would like to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428141218	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428141227	In the Radical Left we say: less noise, but the same speed. When we made a big deal some years ago, 400 million were set aside. kr. to do noise control along roads and railways in Denmark. We were very pleased about that, and it was also one of the things we got into that conciliation at the time. And that is because we see that there will be more traffic on both the roads and the railways that we have, which means that noise nuisances are increasing. In the case of new roads and new railways, there is an environmental protection law which ensures that there are a great many measures, but where we have the problem there are motorways which have been here for many years and where there has been much more traffic than when they were built. There are a lot of examples that come out in the media, among others. at Kolding and especially in the surrounding municipalities here in Copenhagen. There we think, as has been mentioned by both the Minister for Transport and a number of colleagues, that it would be a good idea for us to continue with these pools where some money can be set aside to fight this. I think it was last year that this pool was used last time, so now there is no money to combat noise. We in the Radical Left would also very much like to help find some money for it, and that is the way we want to go. We do not want to give municipalities and everyone else the opportunity to slow down on the roads, because then it does not really make sense to have built a motorway if you cannot be allowed to drive at the speeds that are allowed there. So we say no to the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428141408	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428141413	Mr. Andreas Steenberg really that it doesn't make any sense to have roads if you can't run at the maximum speed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428141423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428141424	Indeed, one of the reasons why you build a motorway is that you want a road that has a standard, as it is called, that makes it possible and roadworthy to drive fast. If you were to slow down, you might as well have settled for a road.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428141441	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428141442	Just as we are currently discussing a proposal to speed up the speed of motorways on selected lines, Mr President, that is so completely foreign to Mr Cabezón Alonso's report. Andreas Steenberg to imagine that on selected routes, although we have built a motorway • in some places close to residential areas, among other things. in Copenhagen's surroundings... after agreement with the municipalities, does it slow down? Is it not such a snug, flexible relationship to have with the roads?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428141512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428141513	Well, there are some places where you have a speed limit down to 90 km/h. for road safety reasons. But we are not ready to slow down to solve the noise problem. We think we should invest our way out of it by putting up noise protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428141531	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428141545	Thank you for the SF proposal, which we would like to vote against. In fact, I find it rather difficult to understand the proposal to be quite honest, because the proposal is that you should be able to contact the Minister for Transport and Building, who will then have to answer or comply with it. Can't you do that today? Can't you write a letter to the minister? I have never heard that a municipality has approached a minister without having an answer back. So I simply do not understand the proposal. In addition, this is quite a good thing, but we are not in favour of the fact that, generally speaking, speed reductions should be made on motorways around, if that is what is meant by it. There I very much agree with the radical rapporteur, whom we have just heard, who says that there is a reason why we have motorways, and it is that we must be able to drive them quickly. Having said that, we are also very concerned about tackling noise problems. I think, for example, that in the West of Copenhagen, where they have these very, very big problems, you could take money from an easy path, for example, and then you could make a lot of noise reducing initiatives out there that could make sure that you among other things. in Vallensbæk, where there are some huge problems, could make life more tolerable for the people who live there. Because it's a very, very serious problem and it's very intrusive in people's everyday lives if they can't sleep because of traffic noise and there's this constant background noise that makes it a little hard to find peace when you're in your home. So it is certainly not to reject the problem. I have also asked that we get the Minister in consultation here next week, I think it will be where we can talk further about what we can do about noise problems. However, to make a motion for a resolution that a minister should respond to enquiries from municipalities seems to me to be an attempt to bring the matter up without there really being so much substance in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428141754	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428141758	Then we got another trip around the process. I understand that it's sir. Rasmus Jarlov's favorite discipline. But we will return to what is at stake, and I am glad to hear that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov is genuinely interested in tackling noise problems, especially in the vicinity of Copenhagen. But what is the realistic horizon for finding the money needed to build the necessary screens or to dress or to put on new asphalt? What is the realistic perspective?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428141828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428141830	We should do this quickly. It may not be up to me alone, but of course it also requires us to find funding for it. I have just mentioned one option, but there are probably others too. We believe that the money allocated to combating noise can also be used for this. So I hope we can meet again. I do not know whether I am particularly concerned about the process, but I am concerned that when you make a proposal, there is also some kind of substance in it. With all due respect, I do not think there is in this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428141900	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428141901	I really don't know if Mr. Rasmus Jarlov is so preoccupied with process. I'm just so unlucky that pretty much every time I meet mr. Rasmus Jarlov in a debate, it is more or less about process and then a little bit about substance. Maybe it's because one is easier to handle than the other. I don't know. But I will now come back to what this is really about. One thing is to talk about perhaps once we can find the money to combat noise, but until we find it, it would not be a very easy and flexible way to go to the fight against noise to reduce speed. Once we get the money to build the screens, we can speed up again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428141938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428141939	If you want to discuss substance, I am always available. Then it's just bringing something substantial. This SF proposal does not propose that speed should be lowered. It has been suggested that municipalities can make representations to the Minister of Transport, which they can already do today, and that is why I think it is a little pointless to vote through this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428142003	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428142019	Thank you to all parties for having responded to SF's proposals. A special thank you, however, must be sent to the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, where I also noticed that both parties contributed constructively with proposals for combating noise other than what is on the table here. But it was nice to see that all parties recognised the challenge of traffic noise, and I hear it as a sincere interest in reducing noise. SF also wants us to draw up a proper strategy for reducing traffic noise. With interest in traffic noise, it looks promising to be able to find money for more screens, ramparts, attenuating asphalt, etc. Unfortunately, I also have to say that there is no immediate majority in favour of using what we think is an easily accessible and flexible solution which could be used here and now to reduce noise, namely by slowing down speed. The magic word in transport policy is usually available. Traffic must slip at all costs. Old car manufacturer Henry Ford said what most, at least traffic rapporteurs, are aware of: for every good road being built, more cars will be put into service and the more cars that come, the stronger will be the demand for new and better roads. Good old Henry had figured it out. And we build roads, and we build roads, and they fill with cars. Through the cities are the roads like rivers of pollution. Particles destroy health, CO2 It is estimated that 785,000 homes are burdened with the Danish EPA's limit value, and by far the biggest problem in relation to noise is road traffic. The road noise strategy of 2003 gave the first indication of the extent of the health consequences. At that time it was carefully estimated that in the order of 800 to 2,200 people in Denmark are hospitalised annually with high blood pressure or heart disease due to the additional risk posed by traffic noise. It was already estimated at that time that road noise causes between 200 and 500 premature deaths annually, often as a result of high blood pressure and heart disease. According to the World Health Organization, traffic noise can cause discomfort and health effects such as communication difficulties, headaches, difficulty sleeping, stress, high blood pressure, increased risk of heart disease and hormonal effects. Noise can also affect performance and affect children's learning and motivation. Noise has a number of harmful effects on human health and can have real health effects over a long period of time. A 2012 Cancer Control study confirms that road noise poses an increased risk of cardiac thrombosis. A Danish study from 2012 shows that noise from road traffic increases the risk of diabetes. The study shows that approx. 1,400 people are diagnosed annually as a result of traffic noise, corresponding to approx. 5% of all new diabetes cases. Another Danish study, this time from 2011, shows that people living at addresses with a lot of noise from road traffic have an increased risk of stroke, i.e. bleeding or blood clot in the brain. 167 people were killed in traffic in 2005, but the invisible traffic death through traffic noise caused between 200 and 500 premature deaths, the Danish Environmental Protection Agency estimates. The increased risk of illness is mainly due to worse night sleep. SF likes money set aside for more noise walls, noise barriers, noise reducing asphalt, but as you know, it can have long prospects. Here and now, on the other hand, we can reduce noise by limiting speed. In our neighbouring country, consideration of noise is also being given to the setting of speed limits on motorways. We think that should also happen in Denmark. It would be obvious to take as a starting point local authorities' knowledge and contact with citizens. We therefore propose that a municipality be given the opportunity to ask the Minister for Transport and Building to reduce the speed of motorway sections passing through or bordering the municipality. The municipality must document how many people are bothered by noise from the motorway and to what extent they are bothered. The Minister of Transport and Building is then obliged to use the following or explain the principle and, upon request, either to reduce the speed of the noise-ridden sections, possibly only at certain times, typically evening and night, which may happen by electronic signage, or to explain why the Minister considers this to be inappropriate. It is natural that before a final decision there should be a dialogue between the municipality and the Minister for Transport and Building on the problem, including whether other solutions and funding can be found for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428142622	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428142637	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Transport and Building. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428142700	Thank you for that, President. Enhedslisten has submitted a proposal for a parliamentary decision on a government pool for PCB renovation. The proposal requires the government to create a state pool from which municipalities can seek funds for renovation tasks in relation to PCB. Pcb was used in a large number of building materials during the period 1950-1977, after which it was banned. And PCB in building materials can evaporate to the indoor air and contribute to human PCB intakes. According to the proposal, there is a higher incidence of PCB in primary schools than in other public buildings, and this is due, among other things, to the fact that many of the country's primary schools were built in the period 1965-1969, when the use of PCB was at its highest. The proposers point out that the economy of the municipalities is in need and that there is therefore a fear that municipalities will not be able to afford the necessary PCB renovations. It is also the opinion of the proposers that work on the renovation of buildings with PCBs should be carried out at a faster pace than is the case today. And according to the proposers, this will only happen if the state takes an active part in supporting this work financially. I can inform you that municipalities, as building owners, have a duty to ensure that their buildings do not pose a health risk to the people who use the buildings. This follows from section 17 of the Building Act and applies, for example, to: with regard to a hazardous indoor environment arising from PCBs, radon, asbestos or the like. The government agreed the Finance Act 2016 with the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party. Therefore, the framework for the State budget in 2016 has been laid down and therefore the government must reject expenditure-intensive proposals of this nature. In addition, the financing of the PCB renovation pool is indicated to come from e.g.: a complete or partial roll-back and/or a slower phase-in of the reduction in the estate and inheritance tax for commercial enterprises. By its very nature, the government cannot support a proposal in which the estate and inheritance tax is tightened when we agreed in the 2016 Finance Act to reduce the estate and inheritance tax for commercial companies. The proposal is therefore a financial law which Enhedslisten must bring up in autumn's negotiations on the Finance Act for 2017. Against this background, the government rejects the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428142925	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428142931	The Minister points out that it is the municipality's responsibility to provide a proper indoor climate in municipal buildings, and that is, in legal terms, correct. However, I would like to hear from the Minister whether he is aware that it has been made up to be a three-digit million amount which is in fact needed to renovate PCBs in order, as well as to comply with the requirements of the indoor climate of municipal buildings.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428142956	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428142959	In connection with the negotiations that the government always has with KL in June, I assume that they have been assessed or taken with them. But I can just say in general terms that it is clear from the law whose responsibility it is. And I do not want to go into any economic debate about the relationship between the municipalities and the state. This isn't my resort. That is why I would just like to say that, if there are any questions about it, I should like to answer it. But I am not going in with an attitude here and now. And I would also like to say that I have to respect the agreement we have made in the context of the Financial Law Agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428143037	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428143039	But it is a very harmful substance, PCB, and I am deeply concerned that we have a number of primary schools in Denmark, where there are small children who play and spend many hours of their everyday lives and with the new school reform, it is even more hours indoors in some rooms that may be contaminated, i.e. where the indoor climate can harm those children. I would like to ask the Minister if he is not concerned that we have that level in the public schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428143108	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428143110	That is certainly something that the government is concerned with; so that is quite correct. What I have to say is that it is also handled. It is the case that the municipalities have that duty. And it is also the case that if there is any financial expenditure, some figures or something you are discussing, that is what you always do in the negotiations you have. But I just have to say that this is a long-standing case, which is why the municipalities know that this is their task. And I also assume that the municipalities address the tasks of budgeting. But as I said, it's nothing I have any knowledge of.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428143146	We thank the Minister and start with the rapporteur's line. First, Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428143157	The Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution to reduce a state pool for PCB renovation is sticking its finger into an open wound, namely the massive cuts in the cost contribution to the local economy. And when the government, with the rest of the blue block behind it, chooses to conclude a financial law agreement that saves billions on the budgets of the municipalities, then there is less money to take care of the many important tasks that the municipalities have to undertake. This applies to primary school, to care for the elderly, and in this case it also applies to PCB renovation. The matter is quite simple, namely that the savings mean that the municipalities cannot get through the pile of tasks they now have in front of them on the table. Therefore, it makes good sense that the PCB renovation of the municipalities cannot take place at an optimal pace. The Socialists fully agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution. There is no doubt that there is every reason to take action against the PCB that still exists in our building stock and also in our nature. In other words, the Socialists would like to sign for the substance of the resolution. This is a very important agenda that the Enhedslisten raises. The Enhedslisten now wants to reduce a government pool of three-digit million euros which the municipalities can apply for. At the same time, the Enhedslisten states that these funds must be found by fully or partially re-rolling the reduction in the estate and inheritance tax for business enterprises. Although the Social Democrats do not support the government's reduction in estate and inheritance taxes for business businesses, we do not want to adopt the proposed funding. So the substance of the proposal is certainly positive, but we do not want to commit ourselves to the proposed financing model and therefore the Socialists cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428143346	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428143347	Thank you to the rapporteur for agreeing that the municipalities have a burdened economy and that this may lead to necessary tasks being postponed. I think it is nice to hear that the Social Democrats are aware of that problem. After all, this is an even bigger problem because the municipalities also have increasing costs in the area of refugees, which can make it even less affording necessary measures such as renovating municipal buildings. In relation to funding, the Enhedslisten is completely open to the possibility of doing so in other ways. A small purchase of fighter aircraft, a better tax equation, a process where you get hidden money in Panama to the surface and get them home for taxation is something that we are quite open to will be able to finance this renovation of PCB by other means. So we are very open to discussing further how to provide finance for the municipalities in order to solve the problems. I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not agree that we might be able to look at some other sources.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428143452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428143453	I would like to start by saying, first of all, just to underline the fact that the Socialists have worked hard to ensure that the PCB renovation continued, when we shared government responsibility with both the SF and later with the Radical Left. We had a very rigorous follow-up to the action plan adopted in May 2011, and most of the initiatives in the action plan, when we sat in government, were taken to implement it. And I just want to say that, of course, we are focused on that agenda. And with regard to alternative financing models, we are always willing to discuss these things with Enhedslisten, but also with other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428143537	The last-minute questioner brought Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428143545	No, it's been a few minutes since I marked it, but it's okay. I did not intend to take the floor at first either, but I was somewhat provoked anyway, because the rapporteur said that we agree with the initiative. And then I would just like to hear from the rapporteur how many state loan pools the Red Government, which resigned less than a year ago, had set aside for PCB renovation in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428143607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428143609	It was the case that exactly the financing of the follow-up to the initiatives in the 2011 Action Plan, which was implemented by the VK government back in May 2011, was carried out on the 2014 Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428143624	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428143627	Now I was the one who negotiated the PCB Action Plan in 2011 with the officials of the Ministry of Business, and the only party that was really active beyond me from the Left in this provision was actually the Danish People's Party, which had some comments on it. Otherwise, there were no political comments on that action plan. We actually put a loan pool back in 2011, which among other things. It is also helpful to some of the PCB problems, but there has been no loan pool similar to it since then.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428143656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428143658	I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his active work in 2011. I would just like to say that during the same period, but also afterwards, the Socialists have made a very active effort both in the field of the environment and climate and in the field of business and, moreover, in the field of urban and housing, when it comes to precisely combating the use of this building technique, and also to ensuring that the renovation pools were present. I would just like to say that as long as the current government has such a saving strategy towards the municipalities as it does, at the moment there is just not enough money at all to be able to allocate the amount proposed by Enhedslisten in the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428143741	Then we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428143753	Pcb, as others have mentioned, was a substance used up through the 1960s and 1970s. I think that both the proposers and I have gone to such schools at that time, and fortunately we are still here. But there is no doubt that it was banned for a reason, and it is then also constantly replaced when you have renovations. This is actually putting aside a three-digit million pool: it's quite a flexible size, it can be as much as a small billion. And I know that Enhedslisten says that now we have to punish business by turning back this relaxation of inheritance tax. We do not agree with that kind of funding. There's something I'm wondering here. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen's predecessor, sir. Per Clausen, has previously raised this problem with the previous government when Martin Lidegaard (First Vice-President, Mr.! ) Mr. Martin Lidegaard was a minister, and there one can refer from the Engineer, where Mr. Martin Lidegaard says it is not a state task. We would like to take part in some advice, and yes, we would like to put a pool of research into some things, but it is a municipal task to renovate schools. So when Enhedslisten formed a parliamentary basis for the previous government, there was every chance of pressing them on the stomach when they had to count to 90. That's what you've chosen not to do. And it's just to say that other previous governments could have done something about this problem if you wanted to. But, by the way, I very much agree with Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard. It is a municipal task to maintain schools. Then it may be that some people are saying: 'Well, there are savings.' Yes, there are savings, but I think that the municipalities have more money available in 2016, than they had under the previous government. So I do not think it is the savings in the municipalities that have provided the basis for this if we have not done this at a reasonable rate, because it will often be operation and maintenance, and so it has nothing to do with the other costs of a municipality, that is to say what else is spent on money. I would just like to say, in relation to municipal expenditure, that yes, the municipalities are under pressure today, but I have to say that this is because of the lax immigration policy launched by the previous government, and certainly not because of the savings that have now been dictated to the municipalities by the current government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428144039	Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428144042	It is quite true that the economy of the municipalities is under pressure, and that is one of them. Because of this priority contribution, which the Danish People's Party has helped to adopt here in the Danish Parliament. The rapporteur is quite right in saying that the Enhedslisten has in the past pressed other governments to solve an environmental problem, and we will, of course, continue to do so. Whatever government there is, we will press for environmental problems and indoor climate problems in municipal schools to be resolved. All we have to do is note that the economy of the municipalities can help delay necessary renovations and fail to comply with the indoor climate in the individual schools, and perhaps resort to temporary solutions to turn up ventilation to reduce the toxic substances in the indoor climate in schools, and we think that this is a really bad solution. That is why we would like to see funds prioritised for this. We would therefore very much like to have an open dialogue on whether money can be found in other ways, so I would appeal to the Danish People's Party to help solve this environmental problem as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428144145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428144147	Well, I'd like to help you solve it in the municipalities. You could start with in here making a construction stop of new town halls until you had renovated all your schools. That could be a very good way to deal with that problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428144200	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428144202	Now it is not my impression that all municipalities are building new town halls, and if municipalities are building new town halls, I hope they have a very good plan to dispose of old town halls or to sell town halls that may have been left over in connection with municipal reunifications. So I do not think it is a general picture that the municipalities use all their facilities to build beautiful buildings for mayors, but that one has a high focus on ensuring a proper indoor climate for children in schools. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not true that it is a major problem for many older schools that the indoor climate is not in order?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428144237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428144239	Yes, absolutely. There is no doubt that it could be better in many of the older schools, but it is still a municipal priority, how to use your operating budget and its capitals • whether you want to build new town halls for them or create other new facilities, or whether you want to renovate your schools. It is, after all, a priority that lies out in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428144302	We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428144312	As with the previous proposal, this is the kind of speech I have borrowed from the rapporteur, but I have to say that it is a very welcome reunion because, as I mentioned before, this is a matter that I have worked on in the past. I helped make the action plan in relation to PCBs in 2011 and was therefore also very happy when, in 2011, just before the government resigned, we set aside a loan pool for, among others. to help some of the PCB-affected schools and buildings in general. However, I would like to turn to the rapporteur's speech. With this resolution, the Enhedslisten proposes to create a state pool for the PCB renovation of municipal buildings. I understand the Enhedslisten's proposal, which takes account of the cramped economy of the municipalities. However, as you know, this is a matter of financial law as Enhedslisten imagines that the funding of the pool should, for example, come from a full or partial roll-back and/or a slower phasing-in of the reduction of the estate and inheritance tax for commercial enterprises, which was adopted in the context of the Finance Act for 2016. Of course, the Left does not support this. We stand by our agreements and settlements. However, the Enhedslisten has the opportunity to bring up the proposal when it comes to negotiating the Finance Act for the coming year. The Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428144428	There is a brief comment from Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428144434	I can hear that the rapporteur has dealt with the subject in the past and that in the past there have been public pools in order to help solve the problem, as well as in the past. In this context, I would like to know whether it is the rapporteur's opinion that the problems in the municipalities have been resolved or whether there is still a need to help the municipalities get a little more turbo on the necessary renovations so that we can have a proper indoor climate in the Danish primary schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428144459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428144500	I certainly believe that there are still major challenges in the municipalities. We had the opportunity to do something back in 2011, when we last had the power, and it was both in the PCB field and various other areas that we gave the municipalities the opportunity to borrow. But since then there have not really been any similar pools in finance laws. Under the Red Government, there have been no similar pools. Then I don't think it's getting any better.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428144519	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428144521	I understand that the problem has not yet been fully resolved. You could then work on setting up pools again, and I would appeal to you to have a dialogue with KL and to find out how much renovation is needed and what it is for a pool size that might be necessary. Because I assume that, although it is a minority government, the Left has a little influence on what kind of financial laws will be the country with the Left at the end of the table. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur is aware of the scale of the problem we have and of the lack of need for renovation that lies ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428144554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428144555	A few years ago, a survey was made of how big the problem is, and if you want to look into it, you can see exactly how big the problem is. The way I remember the mapping was in 75%. of one- and two-family houses, and it was also to a large extent institutions that were affected by it as long as they were built between 1950 and 1977. But I'm afraid I don't have all the numbers on my retina, but that's how I remember it. So that is where the rapporteur can find the figures more precisely, and I would recommend that the rapporteur do so. But, of course, the discussion about who is going to finance this is also an interesting discussion, because we cannot finance the whole of Denmark becoming PCB-free, because then we should also do it for those who own one and two family houses.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428144637	We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428144648	After all, we are at a time in this Assembly when there are a great many motions for resolutions from the Enhedslisten. Yesterday we had four in the field of transport, where I think there were 38 specific proposals. So there's pressure on the boilers. The proposals have had the same fate, and if you think about how many legal areas there are and Enhedslisten was equally active in other areas, then we would be busy in here. But that's what we have, you might say. In relation to this motion for a resolution, I would like to say that it is not very difficult to find an area in the municipal administration where some people in here think that it is not really fast enough and where it is also felt that it is a pity for the municipalities because they have so many refugees and then do not have so much money. I do not think one should have much imagination to figure out that one can pick out a lot of proposals and adopt the same logic. And in this respect, it must be said that this is of course a problem. The municipalities have a lot of problems like this. But that is certainly not a new problem. It has been known for a very long time, as has also been mentioned almost since the 1970s. And that means that the municipalities know how this is going to develop and how to give priority to them. I think it was also mentioned that many large town halls have been built since then, and all the discussions in the municipalities about how to spend the money are the essence of municipal autonomy. And there I think we have to be very careful in here to point out some areas and say that what is not going fast enough, and that is why we are creating a pool that we need some to manage, and then we need some to control it, and then you get that knob shooting and some systems that we in here are so good at inventing. What if we had adopted everything that Enhedslisten has put forward? Then we would have a jungle of pools and rules and controls in relation to the best thing we can say about the municipalities, namely that there is local self-government. So I'd be really, really sorry to go further that way. So, even though PCB is a major problem, I think we should certainly say no to this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428144925	Then there is a brief comment on Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428144928	I am a great supporter of local self-government and that it is local, you have to make many decisions and that you also have to have a good economy in the municipalities so that you can solve the tasks that you have. It would be very good if all municipalities that have problems with PCB could top priority it and have the schools and other public buildings renovated as soon as possible so that the indoor climate for school children and for the employees of municipal buildings could be improved. The rapporteur now pays tribute to local self-government. I would like to hear from the rapporteur about the fact that the Liberal Alliance, together with the Blue Block, has adopted a re-priority contribution, taking 2.4 billion. kr. from the municipalities, is an expression of respect for local self-government. And I would like to know to what extent it undermines the ability of the municipalities to take their own decisions, that they have to get into a circle where they may get some money back and where some parties will decide what the money that is being brought back is going to be spent on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428145035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428145037	It is the case that the way we conduct economic policy in this country is that it is the state that sets the framework for overall economic policy. This then means that if the municipalities are given total freedom to pursue exactly the policy they want, that is to say, the freedom to consume public money and raise taxes and let the drum run, then it will undermine the possibility that we can pursue macro-economic policy. The municipalities account for about two thirds of the public sector, so it would be really, really difficult to control economic policy if we did not set a framework, and that has little to do with the self-priority that we pay so much tribute to in terms of local self-government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428145135	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428145138	Well, then it's gonna be exciting to see if there's any money in that macro-economy to spend 30 billion. kr. on fighter planes, whether there is a proper will to find the billions that are hidden in tax havens in other countries, and whether you can get them up to the surface and home to Denmark and be taxed. I think it is incredibly hollow to hear the rapporteur talk about local self-government, while at the same time adding votes to the re-priority contribution, thereby undermining local self-government. So that is the kind of jubilee speeches that have no content. I think that is a pity, because I am sure that all municipalities that have problems with PCB would like to resolve them as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428145219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428145220	To that I can just say that it is not many minutes since we discussed noise protection, and there will always be some things you can point out and where you can say: why are we not doing something more here? The essence of political priorities, whether national or local, is that we as a politician must consider these considerations to each other. The fact that we have to weigh up the consideration for combat aircraft in relation to the consideration for the municipalities seems to me to be going a little too far.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428145250	We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428145257	Thank you very much. PCB is one of the most dangerous environmental pollutants we know, and it is simply high time that a structured effort was put in place to deal with the problem. In particular, the problem of the excessive limit values in the public schools is of concern to us, and I can also read from the comments that this is very much at the heart of the proposers. When we know so much about the negative impact on PCBs in the environment, it is important that we create the opportunity for municipalities to address the problem. We are very positive about the idea of a state pool in the light of the already distressed economic situation of the municipalities, because the fact that the municipalities are already obliged to supervise and, as such, to act is simply not enough to take account of the size of the problem. Nor is it enough to put the municipalities on the head with the obligations they have if the economy makes proper efforts impossible. We very much hope that we in the Folketing can reach a sensible solution to this problem and we are also prepared to take co-responsibility for the funding of the pool. As far as I understand, there is also still to be fully uncovered how large such a pool, if any, should be. We therefore hope that the Minister will work positively on the motion for a resolution or some other kind of PCB pool, and that an otherwise good initiative and good proposal will not fall solely on disagreements about funding. So the alternative supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428145425	I suggest that the tax negotiations be a little more subdued. Then we proceed with one brief comment to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428145434	Well, I think it is gratifying if it is the case that in the middle of this Chamber there is a solution in which SKAT contributes the funding to meet our PCB proposals. So I think it is quite all right that there is a little unrest in the rear row if it is the case that a three-digit million euro can be raised here during the discussion of the Enhedslisten's proposal. So I can live with the fact that there's a little unrest in the back row. But otherwise I would like to thank the Alternative's rapporteur for having realised and having an understanding that Enhedslisten's proposal is the right one. With regard to this work on the current tax minister, it is not certain that this is the way we will find a solution. For it may well be that we need to have a new government before we can solve this problem, but when that happens, it is also important that the parties that want to give priority to the environment are ready for the concrete proposals, and that is why I am pleased that the rapporteur of the alternative is fully in line with the Enhedslisten in that we have to solve this environmental problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428145531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428145533	I sign for that, and I thank you very much for that. But I'm also praying, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen notes that, in fact, there has been widespread expression in the Folketing of an interest in finding a solution to the PCB problem, and I certainly hope that initiatives will be taken even before the government changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428145554	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428145556	One can always hope for the best, and the fact that the tax minister is still in the Chamber can help to find a few million kroner to solve the problem. But I did not quite think I heard so many bourgeois rapporteurs being so positive that there was a prospect that they would help the municipalities solve the problem. So I still believe that we are in a situation where we have to have a new government, in order to be able to solve the problem in earnest.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428145623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428145625	I can only encourage Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen to continue to focus on this PCB problem, and then we will have to talk about it when the situation mentioned by the rapporteur arises.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428145640	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428145651	In the Radical Left, we are increasingly sceptical about all these pools that are being made and that the municipalities can then seek money for. Because what happens all the time in connection with these pools is that a lot of people are being hired, who have to sit and look for the pools, and then there are some people here in Copenhagen who have to check whether the money in the pools has gone for the right purpose. If you want to give the municipalities or regions, or both of them, more money to combat PCBs, which is obviously a problem that causes some of the worst diseases, then it would actually be easier to give the municipalities and regions more money and to agree with them in a municipal and regional agreement what should happen in the PCB area. Now I was just looking into something about this before we had to debate the matter here, and I could see that in a municipality like Aarhus they are very well into a PCB strategy. As far as I can read, they are getting it out of the buildings they have, and there is no reason why they have to go through some bureaucracy over here to get some money if they are going to give them some money. That is why we are calling on Enhedslisten and others to take it up in the municipal negotiations, where both the municipal and regional capital budgets are established, and then we are also involved in a dialogue with municipalities and regions about whether this is where it is most important to set aside money. And that is not because I have the big answer to it, but it could of course be that in the municipalities there was a bigger problem with something else at the moment, and I think we could enter into a dialogue on that. And that will be the way we will go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428145837	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428145840	It is certainly true that some municipalities such as Aarhus are well in the process of solving the problem, but I have just been able to see by reading some local newspapers that some smaller municipalities sometimes discover that they have a PCB problem. They may have several municipal schools built during the same period of time and have the expectation that there will be a regular roof renovation and a window replacement, without such extra costs, and they run so suddenly into finding some PCB that it will be significantly more expensive. That is the reality in the municipalities, and that is why I think that having special pools, which some municipalities, which discover a major environmental problem, can seek, is a natural solution. I understand the rapporteur's objections and that he thinks that if there are too many pools, it will be all too big a circus, and that is why it would be good if this re-priority contribution were abolished, so that the municipalities had a better and more robust economy to be able to create long-term solutions. So I would ask the rapporteur to reconsider whether a PCB pool could not be a sensible pool to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428145945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428145947	I fully agree with Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen in that it is simply moving power in here from local self-government to spend a lot of money on bureaucracy. Now I'm not an expert in this area, and I'm quite sure that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen knows a lot about the past, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen has in some energy companies, but as I see it, there is simply a lack of a mapping of where there is PCB. In other words, there is simply a lack of knowledge of where there is something, and I think that might be something that could be laid down in a municipal agreement. So the municipalities know where there are PCBs, and then, when they have a plant framework, they can assess where they start first, and see if PCBs are a bigger problem than mold or that there is a crèche missing because there have been extra children or whatever might be. So I still think it would be wisest to do so in a municipal agreement, and then, within the framework you give them, municipalities can give priority to how much they want to do about the PCB or how much they will not do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428150054	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428150056	I think it is interesting to get it into the municipal agreement negotiations and also to have a process in which, in cooperation with the KL, you might get closer to what it is for an amount and a backlog that is in relation to the renovation of PCBs. If the rapporteur of the Radicals could take this to the representative of the Radicals on the KL's board of directors, I think it would be very good, also in relation to a way of attacking the problem and trying to find a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428150123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428150124	I will. Then we've got something out of it today too!
ParlaMint-DK_20160428150128	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428150140	The environmental tax PCB is a serious threat to the health of many people. The material is out there like a ticking bomb, and the victims are among other things. Our children. We cannot just sit here and watch the situation develop. The government points to the responsibilities of the municipalities. The municipalities point out that government cuts mean that there is less money available for example. renovations for PCB. The citizens, including the children, are left as losers. That's not gonna work. The SF supports the proposal from the Enhedslisten, but we will not, however, adopt the model of funding that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428150229	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we go to the rapporteurs of the authors of the motion, Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428150301	Thank you. I would like to thank the Social Democrats, the Alternative and the SF, and in part also the Radicals, for their willingness to try to look forward to solving the PCB problem. I have to say that with the opposition of the Danish People's Party and the Left and the Liberal Alliance, it seems that we are going to the next period of government to resolve the problem unless the Conservatives can move in here and be in an alternative majority. I think we have a major problem when we know how toxic PCBs are and when we know that PCBs have been so widespread in a number of building materials between 1950 and 1977. When we know that the indoor climate in schools is not at its peak and when we know that there is a refurbishing delay in many municipal buildings, where it is difficult to get the economy to hang together, it is that I see that there is a problem in giving the municipalities a helping hand and helping them solve the problem of PCBs in certain building materials in municipal buildings. It is of course interesting if we can get this into the municipal negotiations, but at the same time we must also note that with the re-priority contribution adopted by the Blue Block here in the Parliament, which takes 2.4 billion. kr. from the municipalities and then perhaps afterwards prioritize them to special areas such as the elderly area, if that is what the Danish People's Party wants, then there will be even less advice for the necessary solutions of tasks that are pressing on, such as renovation of buildings to bring down the PCB pollution. I think it is a serious problem that we should wait years before this indoor climate problem is resolved. I can easily see that there is money in society that could be used for this. Now the proposal outlines that it could be a three-digit million-dollar sum... it might be a few hundred million kroner... and it may seem like a very small amount when, before the summer break, you are faced with the possibility of spending 30 billion. kr. to buy some new planes. It is a clear priority, of course, what you want to buy. One could also go for a more effective tax equation; one could go for the money stored in tax havens in Panama and elsewhere to come to the surface and come home to Denmark and be taxed. There are, in fact, several ways of working to obtain funding for our proposals here, for example. what we have outlined by rolling back adopted decisions on property taxation in the context of the last Finance Act. It is not at all ultimate, we are completely open to the fact that only the cancellation of a single battle plane could enable a large number of tasks outside the municipalities to be solved. So we are completely open to another funding. We have also been able to listen today to the fact that this PCB problem, which is very serious in some municipalities, does not seem to be resolved in the short run unless it is something that is brought into the municipal negotiations and that in those negotiations it is decided that this is something that will be given priority. Otherwise, it must be said that the problem will only be resolved after the next parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428150624	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428150629	Thank you. What really tripped me a little was that someone was trying to put words in my mouth. I have not in any way expressed myself negatively in relation to the fact that PCB is a dangerous environmental charge. There is no doubt about that, which is why it has also been banned. What this is all about is whether it is the state that has to pay for those municipalities that have so far failed to fulfil their responsibilities and have just given different priority. 'Cause I'd like to hear about sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen also believes that we should refund the municipalities that have already spent large millions of dollars renovating and removing PCBs in their municipal properties, including schools. What about these municipalities, do they need a refund from in here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428150707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428150710	I think these challenges with PCBs are very different. That depends on when the buildings are built, of course. There are some municipalities that have started to solve the problem. Then there are some municipalities that discover in connection with the start-up of renovations that you have a bigger problem than you thought, and what should you do? The municipalities do not have a free economy with the constraints which Dansk Folkeparti among others. It helps to manage the municipalities, and with this priority contribution, which the rapporteur has helped to adopt here in the Folketing, it will be even harder for the municipalities to prioritise and solve a task which they would have to solve if it is the case that they comply with the indoor climate requirements of buildings. So we're kind of in a situation like that, sir. Kim Christiansen himself has been involved in creating, helping to exacerbate the economy of the municipalities even more, which means that there may be some municipalities that simply cannot meet the requirements of the law, even though they are in charge of ensuring that the indoor climate is in order in the municipal institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428150812	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428150815	It's amazing how you can twist things. After all, the re-priority contribution has nothing to do with it in any way. It is a change of priority, of course, it is in the word. It's not gonna degrade the municipalities' finances. Stop it! This drug was banned in 1977. Then why haven't the schools done anything about it? So says Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, that you have to find out about it and something like that. Yes, yes, but there's also been a little time since 1977. I know that sometimes you can work a little slowly in the municipalities, but is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen does not agree with me that this problem is well known in the municipalities and that there have just been some municipalities that have given different priority? And that's not because of the latest financial law, I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428150853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428150854	There are many municipalities that have had a tight economy for a long time. As I said in my last speech, then, there are municipalities which, first in the context of a specific renovation, find out that their PCB problem is greater than expected. Then I just want to make it clear that when Mr. Kim Christiansen takes 2.4 billion. kr. from the municipalities and afterwards it is going to botanise in what it is that a financial law will lead back to the municipalities, then it will be interesting to see whether it is a return to the PCB or whether it is a return to the elderly area. I think it will be the last, so we are in a situation where the Danish People's Party will not solve this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428150928	As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428150942	The debate is open. Sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428151004	The draft law here has a great many different elements under the heading of wanting to clarify the legal situation in a number of areas of business taxation. It would be a good idea to clarify some of these also rather complex things that are touched on in this bill. And I need to get into some of these. First, however, there is the bottom line, where the bill will cost 50 million. kr. in a lasting effect, which the state will have less in the box. It is, of course, a small amount in some contexts, but we already have an economic debate in Denmark, where there is really an eye on how the economic space is developing. And without any funding being given to the proposal or any indication of how to cover this gap, it has to be noted that the bill here disappears another 50 million. kr.'s room for manoeuvre. With regard to the elements of the draft law, there are first three follow-ups of judgments by the European Court of Justice, where it is our view that Denmark must comply with its international obligations, just as we demand from the other countries with which we are members of the European Union when they receive sentences for unfair competition, breaches of environmental legislation, etc. On the whole, several of these changes were already under way under the previous government and we can support the changes resulting from these EU judgments. Then there is the question of the corporate tax regime, which, in our reign, was tightened up and clarified in order to avoid accidental use. In the meantime, there has been criticism from various quarters of the way in which this has happened, and the Tax Council has made a decision in this area which, of course, needs to be taken into account. But we are now not sure that what the government is proposing is not to make the patch too small, if you may say so, to stay in this tax hole terminology. And, according to my information, a great deal of effort was actually devoted to securing common ground, including with the Left, in the time of the previous government regarding the interference with the corporate regime. That is why we must, of course, use some effort in committee to get this subject through. There must be clarity for the self-employed who use the scheme, and we have to take into account what the Tax Council has decided. On the other hand, it will not work if speculative constructions are reopened that are not in line with the intention of the corporate regime and that will therefore cost money to all other taxpayers. Moreover, the draft law does not indicate whether there are any economic consequences of this element of the proposal, but we can get the drill out of it when we deal with it. Then there are various changes to the rules on the investment funds as a result of a review of the law in this area, carried out on top of the totally unacceptable scandal of fraud against the state for over 9 billion. kr. in the area of dividend taxation. A number of criticisms have been made of these initiatives by the Investment Association industry, and there has been a concern that the draft law will lead to job losses in the financial sector and reduce interest in saving and investing money through Danish investment funds and will instead direct more investment into individual shares and foreign funds. That is the criticism that has been made. On the other hand, the Minister of Taxation writes directly in the draft law that the interventions should be limited in a way, for example. does not affect ordinary UCITS providing investment certificates for mass investment. So there is a clear difference between how it is perceived by the industry and how it is perceived by the Treasury. As you know, closing tax holes and paying attention to them is something that the Social Democrats are very concerned about. Then it is a hole here, of course it must be closed. But again, there is an element in the draft law that we must have clarified in the discussion. And we will then listen carefully to the Minister's answer to the questions that come so that we can make sure that it is well-founded changes that are happening and that the consequences of the law are actually that we ensure the taxation of Danish stock yields and counter fraud and evasion of intentions with the law. There is also one element that concerns associations and others that will be able to be power generators and supply surplus electricity to the electricity grid without being considered an electricity company and thus have to be taxed on all kinds of other revenue, for example. of an association's activities. And we think that is a fair and realistic way of creating a framework for, for example, the creation of a European Union. sports associations, ports, airports and others may have solar cells running and supply surplus power to the electricity grid within a reasonable limit of these 25 kW without having to be considered as a fully taxable electricity company. So the conclusion on top of this multi-faceted bill can't be quite clear today. There are elements in which earlier closure of a tax gap is changing, and here we are sceptical and, at least, need to be in depth about whether everything the tax minister is proposing is wise. There are other elements in which the tax minister's proposal is challenged as to whether it will have the real desired effect. And there are elements we are clearly in favour of. So we are leaning towards supporting the bill, but there are also unknowns who have to wait for the committee procedure. Furthermore, on behalf of the chairman of the SF, who cannot be here, I should like to say that they have the same attitude. They see positive elements in the bill but question other elements. So neither can they immediately support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428151552	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428151559	This bill states from the outset that it aims to create clarity and make more unambiguous rules. This is something that needs to be said, because it is, to put it mildly, a very technical proposal which is not readable. I would also like to say that I have been a tax rapporteur for a number of years and have been rapporteur on a great many proposals, and this certainly belongs to the category of the most complicated ones I have been familiar with. The proposal contains nine sub-elements, some of which relate to the closure of tax gaps, and in the case of the closure of tax gaps, this in itself is also part of what is typically quite complicated, both to understand the gap and to understand whether it is now the right solution to close it. Some of the elements of the draft law are about approximation due to EU judgments, one of which I would like to crack down on one of those which deals with the reduction of income tax on dividends to certain foreign companies, reducing taxation from 27 per cent. 22 per cent. for certain companies which are from outside the EU and with which there is no double taxation agreement. And there, I think, it seems somewhat illogical that one should only reduce the tax rate for those companies, and it must logically in some way contribute to some change in behaviour in relation to the fact that one may then speculate on placing the money elsewhere. Paragraph 4 of the draft law is one of these hollow-sealing proposals, which deals with the circumvention of dividend tax on sales back to an issuing UCITS, which, as I said, is about a tax gap in UCITS. In short, it can be said that it is a matter of speculation that dividends are taxable, where profit margins are tax-free, where, of course, one tries to avoid being able to sit and convert between the two things. However, there are already a number of safeguards for this in relation to the sale of shares, but there is obviously a problem in relation to safeguards which are not there in the case of UCITS. And that is what has been shown, with which there really is a challenge and a problem, but I have also understood from the commentary on the consultation answer, which is an annex to the draft law, that the solution proposed in the draft law is not entirely sustainable. In any case, the tax minister writes in the commentary on the hearing that an amendment will be tabled later, so that it is properly closed. We look forward, of course, to reading it in an even more technical amendment. Then there is paragraph 2.5 of the draft law, which deals with the circumvention of dividend tax on the exchange of investment certificates without the right to dividends. After all, it is a question of UCITS with minimum taxation, where foreign investors can avoid taxation by trading with the investment certificates, where it is with the right to dividends and not the right to dividends. To make a long story short, this is quite simply about changing it, so that you cannot issue certificates without the right to profit, and this is a change that we in the Danish People's Party support. Then there are a few proposals which are also right-legged to support. One is that associations, ports and water supply companies and others will be able to obtain taxable income from the sale of electricity without being considered to operate electricity. There you can actually give a rather simple example, which illustrates the problem very well. It is, among other things, if you have an association that chooses to say that they would like to have some solar cells on the roof at their clubhouse and thus might get some surplus flow, which you then sell back to the network. It then makes them have an income, but as the rules are today, one may risk that they end up being taxable of all the income in the association, which also contains quotas. It is clear that it is almost self-evident that this is not appropriate, so we can say with good faith that we support this, of course, that changes are being made so that associations and others are not, of course, turned into a form of electricity company which must be fully taxed out of quotas and other things. So that proposal sounds quite reasonable. There is also the repeal of the law on investment funds, which has been phased out since 2003, so of course we support that too. Then there is one of those who is a little more complicated and which is the eighth step in the legislative proposal, which adjusts the action against the unintentional exploitation of the business system, where there are a number of consultation responses which recognise that this amendment is probably a step in the right direction, but I do not think that there is a complete overview of whether it is the right cut that is being made, and that is at least something I think there might be a need for more diving into the committee procedure, as I also noted the previous rapporteur. The last point is on reporting rules to securities funds, where there have been some changes in practice, and there will also be some related legislation that needs to be changed, but this is something that we think is quite positive at all. As the Socialists also said, I would like to say that this represents a lasting reduction in revenue of 50 million. kr., and it is clear that as a parliamentary party we are naturally interested in how one intends to finance it. 50 million kr. Of course, it may seem like a bit in the entire state budget, but it is clear that when you make a bill that costs 50 million. kr. In a negative way, there is also a natural interest in how to find that money. All in all I can say, as I said at the beginning, that this is an extremely technical proposal which makes me think that there might be a need for us in the Parliament's Tax Committee to have a technical review of the elements to find out whether we are now getting the cut in the right places. However, I can already say that there are at least parts of the legislative proposal that we support, but then there are other things that, as I said, we would like to have a technical review of in committee so that we can find out if we find the right solutions to this. I want those to be my words to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428152145	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428152155	Thank you for the floor. Yes, this is a very complicated piece of legislation, which is why I would like to look at the proposal in paragraphs for once. The first three points mentioned in the comments as points 2.1 to 2.3 implement EU judgments in Danish law, as mentioned earlier. The first, in fact, is a judgment against Denmark, so it is good practice to comply with the judgments that are now in force. So these are the first three points. The next two points, which are referred to as paragraphs 2.4. and 2.5., close some gaps in the tax legislation on dividends. We are aware that the answers to the hearings have mentioned a criticism that there could be a risk in relation to paragraph 2.4. for double taxation of Danes, and I know from the Minister for Taxation that the Ministry of Taxation is working to counter this with an amendment. So we're looking forward to it so we don't get into this unfortunate situation. Of course, we want this to work as well as possible, so we would like to proceed constructively here. What is mentioned in the comments as point 2.6 takes account of the problem which, among other things, has to be addressed. ports have experienced. In the past, there has been a problem with them being perceived legally as an energy company if, for example, they are regarded as an energy company. set up a solar system. The proposal sets a minimum limit for energy production so that, if ports stay within it, they can remain in their proper functioning and not be converted into energy companies. It is the same limit, as far as I know, which also applies to household windmills. So it's to avoid them ending up like energy companies all of a sudden. Then there is what is mentioned in the comments as paragraph 2.7 on the repeal of the Investment Fund Act, as the law has been phased out. We think that is a good thing, that is to say, for once we are abolishing a law. Then there is paragraph 2.8., which is a little more difficult immediately, as several rapporteurs have already mentioned. It is about the use of business arrangements and collateral. And here the aim is to adapt the legislation to a number of decisions of the Tax Council. We have heard that there are organisations that want us to go further, and we have taken note of that. We believe that what we have done here is in line with what the Tax Council's decisions have been. The last point, paragraph 2.9, is about securities funds. The Attorney General has previously examined the status of securities funds, and from this we have come to the conclusion that securities funds should be seen in the future as independent funds. SKAT has sent out a steering signal about it, but now we're also adapting the legislation to it with this bill. As can be seen, the draft law consists of a number of proposals of a very different nature, including very technical ones. I understand that in some places the substance has raised concerns and that it can be difficult to get through all the way through, and on that basis I look forward to the debate and the further examination of the legislative proposal. I have to inform you that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428152459	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428152515	Thank you. As other rapporteurs have also mentioned, this is a bit of a more complex proposal. In the Enhedslisten, we are sceptical about the overall legislative proposal for some of the reasons that other rapporteurs have also mentioned. We believe that there are a number of issues that need to be clarified in the work that comes in committee. First of all, we are actually concerned that the draft law opens up more new opportunities for aggressive tax planning than it closes. We are very much in favour of two elements dealing with the management of dividend taxation, paragraphs 2.4. and 2.5. We have seen that the dividend tax has been abused to cheat the treasury for a huge amount of money, but one will hardly think of that story, because then the spring mood will at least disappear. And, of course, it is absolutely essential that this sort of fraud be closed down against our common fund. So that part of it will be happy to vote in favour if it could be split from the remaining bill. On the other hand, we are sceptical about a number of other parts of the bill. We see it basically as an expression of the relaxation of legislation and that it will mean that we will become more dependent on other countries' control systems. In the case of Panama Papers, we have been reminded that the lack of control in a number of so-called tax havens is a huge problem, and that is why we also fear that these reliefs can give this tax fraud better conditions. However, we will be asking a number of questions on this during the committee procedure. We would also like to ask about the part that concerns the re-taxation of foreign deficits from before 2005. It is somewhat unclear to us how SKAT should now be able to control losses from before 2005, which can now avoid re-taxation, without even opening up to tax planning. Then we do not agree with reducing the income tax on dividends to certain foreign companies either. The draft law shows that there is an estimate that it will cost 25 million. kr. a year, but there is no information on the extent of the limited tax liability in relation to the dividends, so I assume that the tax minister can safely confirm that the 25 million. kr. is a punch on the bag, which can be both bigger and smaller. That in itself is a bit worrying. But regardless of whether we are starting from this, we are talking over a number of years about a relatively large amount of millions, which costs Denmark to come in line with these EU requirements, and we would therefore like to appeal in the Enhedslisten to seek every opportunity from the government to change or opt out of the part of EU legislation that has these economic consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428152826	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428152838	Thank you. In the absence of our rapporteur in this area, I shall comment on the draft law. And for good reasons, it can become almost only a few points of impact. One can at least note that there are a number of interesting elements cooked together, although they do not really have so much to do with each other. First of all, I would like to say that we do not see the major problems with the parts dealing with adapting to EU tax rulings, or many of the other minor adjustments. Where this is primarily problematic for us are sections 2.4 and 2.5. Basically, it is obviously illogical to tax profits and dividends differently. When a company has a profit and does not want to expand its activities, they will most often pay dividends or repurchase their own shares. The two things are actually quite the same, but for a foreign investor they will be taxed differently. Until now, a foreign investor has been able to convert a dividend into a profit margin relatively simply by allowing the investment fund to buy back the investment certificate before a dividend is paid out or alternatively by exchanging the certificate into an ex-coupon certificate. This possibility is excluded. However, as the proposal also shows, it will still be possible to convert a dividend into a profit margin by selling off the security before the dividend payment. Now the security just has to be sold to a third party aha! You call it closing a tax hole, but in reality you just make it more trouble for foreign investors to obtain a symmetrical payment of their return. I have to say that where this poses the greatest problem for us, it is in the situation where this, of course noble, purpose of closing tax gaps may affect a fairly large part of the investment sum that investment funds are dealing with, among other things. the fact that it can be quite difficult to sell your investment certificates again. It has, of course, been such a pillar in the way investment funds work that you can always get rid of your investment certificate. There are also some problems with these ex-coupons. Because if you buy an investment certificate early in the year for e.g. 100,000 kroner. and then there is the general meeting a little later, which distributes the DKK 20,000, then you have to pay tax on the DKK 20,000, and then you have a value of DKK 80,000. This means that you will soon be paying tax on a profit earned by some others in the same investment fund. So it's not your own $100,000. There is a discrepancy here, which I think we will have to look at in committee work. For it is quite ordinary Danish investors who are now being hit and will pay taxes on something they have not even earned. I think it will be important in the committee work to have a look at these things so that we do not shoot grey sparrows with cannons or so that we do not build up a tax wall that will be too high in relation to the ordinary investment drive, because without a proper investment climate, growth and employment will of course suffer. At first sight we are a little sceptical about this, and we have at least a number of questions about what it means for the ordinary Dane who has been able to invest in the past. And that's pretty popular. It's something like 1,900 billion. kr., I think, as the investment funds stand for, and I've been told that the 400 are being hit directly by this, and I don't think that's the point.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428153254	Thank you. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. And maybe you should keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428153309	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing here today contains changes in a wide range of areas, including: impact changes based on judgments of the European Court of Justice, which Denmark is obliged to correct, along with a number of other things. In addition, the draft law also closes two tax gaps which can be used to circumvent the rules on dividend taxation. This is, of course, something that the alternative sees as positive. As the other rapporteurs have said, there are a number of things that can be called into question. We have also asked a number of questions to which we have not yet received an answer, which is why I would like to say from the Chair that the alternative to the proposal is immediately positive, but looks forward to the committee reading and hopefully the committee procedure will be able to clarify the issues that have been raised here from the platform and which have been called into question. And then we shall see what the committee procedure leads to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428153413	We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428153418	As several rapporteurs have said, there are quite a few elements to this bill. Like most of us, we think it is sensible to correct the three areas in which we have European Union judgments, which, of course, should be corrected. We have suffered the same inquisitive approach that several other parties have had to the corporate regime. Where our greatest concern is, where investment funds are concerned. We believe that what you need in Denmark is to get more investment for Danish investment funds for Danish society and not create barriers, although of course we also agree that it should be done without cheating and in a way to ensure that you get the tax dollars in the box you need. But there are, of course, some right, one can safely say, clear signals in the consultation answers. I also know, and I have had the opportunity to have a dialogue with the Minister for Taxation, that there is a dialogue between the Treasury and the people concerned, not least from the investment fund industry. We think it is very important that this dialogue should be brought to an end and that it should be incorporated into an amendment if necessary. I welcome the signal from the rapporteur of the Left. We will look forward to continuing the dialogue with the Minister on this, because it will certainly have a major impact on our position on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428153541	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428153546	There are many good elements in this House's proposal by the government both as regards the follow-up to EU cases, but also as regards the statement by the Minister to avoid double taxation under paragraph 2.4. We still think that there is a need to drill out point 2.5. There's a need to investigate what the consequences really are when you go in and make changes like this. If you look at how investment funds work, you see that they are different from ordinary public limited companies. After all, they manage money for those who have money in investment funds. When you receive the savings, you get an investment certificate and you have the right to redeem it, as it were, as a customer in that investment fund. These are rules which have remained unchanged for many years. They are so designed that, as an investor, you are taxed on profits when you sell investment certificates back to the investment fund. Then we will ensure, and that is only fair enough, that investors are only taxed on their profits. And the profits are taxed as separately as they should. What is in any case doubtful about L 123 is that it does not entirely respect the right of customers to get the money back. Then one of the main principles of investment funds is undermined. Instead, sales back to the investment fund are considered to be possible speculation that foreign investors can avoid taxation in Denmark. I think that is a little contrary to the intention that we should have in Denmark, namely to sell investment funds abroad. Conversely, I think we should also give better room for investment funds at home, so that there will be more competition for price and quality. However, we must at least ensure maximum transparency and maximum competition, so that the price is reduced on the product and, hopefully, the maximum return. This isn't about all kinds of investment funds. The Minister also mentioned this in his remarks on the proposal. The most common investment funds are free. Funds which are also listed. But there's still some 400 billion gone. kr. of Danish and foreign investors' money in Danish investment funds, which may be affected. A derogation has also been made in this proposal, but it does not seem to have been entirely successful. So I think we need to get this out of here during committee reading. We are in favour of the proposal and will also vote in favour of L 123 in order to close a tax gap. There are also a great many good elements in the proposal here, so we will support the proposal, but there is therefore a need to get rid of the part which ensures that investment funds in Denmark still have some opportunities to sell their products at a competitive level, that they reach as many Danes as possible, so that we have some competition in this area. In the next step, we must then have the opportunity to give some foreign associations the opportunity to enter Denmark so that they can compete. So with these statements I would like to say that we can support the proposal, but I would like, during the further committee procedure, to have drilled out how we can ensure that paragraph 2.5 is so modernised or so much updated that we still have the opportunity to have some sensible investment funds and sales of them in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428153935	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428153942	Thank you, President. I would like to thank you for the receipt of the proposal and, although it varies a little, I would like to acknowledge what I consider to be a general support for the draft law, but with a lot of questions and reservations, whether we will do our best, as we will, to clarify in committee. It is the Government's ambition that the tax rules should be as clear as possible in individual jurisdictions, so that companies know with reasonable certainty what is actually applicable. At the same time, the complexity resulting from different forms of ownership, globalisation, etc., is also reflected in the tax rules. I therefore fully understand if there are some of the rapporteurs who do not think that this bill is the simplest one they have read. I think it has to be admitted that this is objectively correct. Although it is complex, the intention of the draft law is to clarify the legal situation in a number of areas of business taxation. The action against the unintended exploitation of the enterprise scheme has, for example, been carried out. was criticised for the lack of clarity on the tax consequences of placing companies' assets to collateralise debts not belonging to the company. Compared to this, the bill makes it clear that taxation is done through the so-called raising order. However, the former purpose of the austerity measures is maintained so that the enterprise scheme cannot be used for example. to finance private consumption without having been subject to general income tax. I guess that's a fair and healthy principle. I believe that the changes are instrumental in ensuring that the business system can continue to function as a good system that provides the self-employed with good conditions for their business activities. The draft law also follows up the Government's objective that dividend taxation should be robust, and that is probably the section that a number of rapporteurs, most recently Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, of the Conservative People's Party, has mentioned of course also poses some challenges. In the context of the crisis, it is a presentation for the political assembly, including: stated that the Ministry of Taxation will analyse the applicable rules on taxation, inclusion and reporting of dividends in order to ensure that the rules are sufficiently robust. It has been found that there are two possible ways of circumventing the tax on dividends under the tax rules applicable to UCITS by converting taxable dividends into tax-free profits. In short, there are two areas where there is no tax on dividends, and that is not the intention. When I look at the consultation answers and also hear some of the things that are being said here today, I have to say that there are a number of parties that come up with real objections, whether this is too big a hole, whether you close too much, and it is fair to have that discussion. I am happy to take that in committee. However, I cannot, as Minister for Taxation, when a large amount of billions of dollars has been defrauded in the area of profits tax, that is to say, when fraud has been committed, as far as we know we are aware, that we have become aware of some tax loopholes and are not closing them. I would also recommend that the Folketing close the gaps thoroughly, that is to say to accept that there may also be some situations where we close them a little too thoroughly. When you have experienced a case where such a large amount of money has been scammed, at least as the tax minister, I need to be on the safe side, and it will also be my recommendation to the Danish Parliament to be on the safe side. But that is one of the things we will have to discuss in the next committee. The latter was more of a political consideration, and that is also why we are putting forward this draft law, knowing that in a number of areas it goes against some of what is, moreover, the government's agenda and also the agenda for a number of the parties that have been in the Chair, namely that we want to ensure the opportunities to make it easier to invest and attract foreign capital to Denmark. The draft law closes these possibilities of circumvention, and in a number of consultation responses it is criticized that the hole closures are too wide. We are, of course, looking at whether it is possible to target the intervention, but as I have said, it is crucial for me and I hope that it is also for a broad majority in the Danish Parliament that the tax on dividends is protected. In addition, I would like to add that I recognise the problem raised by the consultation on the double taxation of Danish investors in the context of the sale back to an issuing UCITS. I think that is also what the Liberal Alliance rapporteur was talking about. In this respect, I can inform you that efforts are being made to achieve clarification as soon as possible in order to table an amendment to the draft law. I find it hard to imagine that the Danish Parliament is finishing this bill without finding a solution to this problem. However, it has not been possible to draw up a solution before the legislative proposal and before the first reading, in the light of the fact that, hopefully, Parliament will have to conclude on the day of the Constitution and that we will have to have a thorough examination of the committee. So these two things have to run in parallel. To conclude, I would like to thank you for the debate that has taken place here today and, of course, I would be happy to answer questions on the substance and effects of the proposal during the committee's reading, just as I look forward to the further consideration of the draft law. I want to say something about a few things that have left. One is the revenue implications, and we will of course answer that question if there is a desire to do so. What is the challenge, after all, is that it is EU legislation and judgments within the framework of the European Union. In other words, we in Denmark are obliged to enforce the free movement of capital in Danish law. As a tax minister, I am obliged to make proposals on this in the Parliamentary Chamber, and I do. You can't make judgments go away by asking committee questions. Of course, we can challenge the interpretation, but I think we will see that the interpretation there is means that we have to change Danish legislation and, in some areas, reduce taxation, which some parties have criticized. That's what happens when there's a conviction. If these are judgments in Danish courts, then the Folketing and I, as a minister, are bound by them. If these are judgments of the European Court of Justice, we are also obliged to comply with them in Danish law. Of course, there can be an interpretation, and we should like to drill that into the committee procedure. But I think I have to say quite frankly to the Folketing that the interpretation that has been put down on it will be difficult to challenge, so that the problem disappears, and that has some negative revenue implications.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428154639	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. No one else has asked for the floor, so the negotiations have ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. At the request of the proposers, paragraph 10 is deleted from the agenda of the Folketing and therefore we move on to paragraph 11.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428154700	The debate is open. Minister for Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428154728	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the alternative has proposed that account be taken of social and environmental sustainability in the investments of Danish pension companies. Specifically, it calls on the government to put forward legislative proposals to amend the Financial Business Act so that social and environmental sustainability will be a requirement for pension companies' investments on an equal footing with the requirement for risk diversification and financial returns on investments. As a law on financial activities today, a pension company must ensure that the funds at its disposal are invested in a way that is in the interests of pension savers. This means that there must be certainty that the company can meet its obligations to customers at any time, while ensuring the best possible return for pension customers. Those investment rules shall not prevent companies from establishing an investment strategy focusing on responsible investments, including social and environmental sustainability. Pensioners are free to take social and environmental considerations into account in their investments, but that should be a desire driven by customers. It is the government's clear view that it is the individual company that must define the investment strategy so that it best escapes with customers interests. I therefore believe that we, as legislators, should not provide a concrete framework for the investments of pension companies, as proposed in this alternative resolution. Conversely, it must be clear to customers how companies deal with issues of social and environmental sustainability. In order to ensure a greater incentive to focus on and transparency of social responsibility, we already introduced in 2008 under the former VK government requirements that larger companies, as well as life insurance companies, should explain their policy and social responsibility, including social, environmental and climate conditions. As a new step in this area, I have just set up a dialogue forum for social responsibility and growth. The objectives of the Dialogue Forum shall include: supporting companies' work in taking social responsibility in a way that creates the greatest value for each company and society. The dialogue forum shall have, inter alia: The UN's sustainability objectives on the agenda, and I can say that I have just today been to the first meeting of the dialogue forum, which has just met, and have therefore started work. With the comments I have made here, the government does not believe that there should be a legal obligation for pension companies to invest more socially and environmentally sustainablely, and the government cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428155014	There is a brief comment to be made to Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428155017	Thank you, Minister. The reason why the alternative makes this proposal is, of course, that it is the financial return to shareholders that is weighted most. What we want to do with this is to take the same responsibility to ensure that it is also environmentally and socially sustainable. That is to say, we are proposing that there is a balance on all three bottom lines, and we cannot say that is within the framework of the legislation today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428155047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428155049	I fully agree with what the alternative proposes, but of course there is a political difference and the government believes that it is the individual company that sets the investment strategy so that it also escapes the interests of customers. That is why I certainly do not believe that this is a proposal that can be accepted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428155111	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428155112	In other words, we are not going to dictate how individual pension companies should invest. We say in our motion for a resolution that they must take account of all three bottom lines, whereas today they only need to take account of the economic bottom line, but how they choose to do so, what investments they choose to make, is still optional.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428155136	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428155137	That doesn't really change it. I still take the view that if you want to go that way, it is now the case that it must be the individual company that does so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428155148	Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428155153	I understand the position of the Minister, but we hear about examples of pension companies that have invested in so-called blood bonds, in other words in government bonds in dictatorships in Africa, and not least, too many cases of large parts of these pensions being deferred taxes, which are, of course, due to our tax relief rules and are, in fact, taxpayers' money. If you can just say "so," but people have to mess with that themselves, doesn't the Minister think that it's failing a responsibility we also have as legislators?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428155228	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428155230	So, as I also said in my reply, we have just under the previous government back in 2008 focused on a much greater openness about this. But there are just different political views about how much should be decided here at Christiansborg and how much we leave to the individual pension company. I do not think we are getting any closer than saying that we have different political views and that I do not think we should go the way that this motion for a resolution proposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428155300	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428155302	No, I understand that. What I'm really just trying to look for is the definition of it. Now this proposal is so far-reaching in the definition, one might say, but will the government at all be inclined to look at some limits for investment, as well as, as far as I know, among other things. So Norway has made investments in forced labour, child labour and such things? In other words, where is the Minister's limit where one can actually say as a legislator: we must set limits as long as it is a pension fund which consists partly of deferred taxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428155341	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428155343	I have to admit that I am not in a position to answer what is being done in Norway. But I think it is most timely in committee where there will be ample opportunity to ask questions about this, and I will be happy to answer that question. I also believe that I will then have the opportunity to understand what the questioner is referring to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428155401	Thank you to the Minister for Business and Growth. There are no more brief remarks to him this time. The next rapporteur is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428155416	With the motion for a resolution, the proposers will require the government to amend the law so that future investments by pension companies are based on social and environmental sustainability on an equal footing with the requirements for risk diversification and financial returns that are being made today. Now I could take a great deal of time to make it clear that the Socialists, if any, are in favour of the green objectives that are affected in the comments, but at the same time I must also stay within the limited speaking time, so I must confine myself to stating that we fully support the COP21 objectives and the objective that Denmark should be independent of fossil fuels by 2050. Having said that, I would like to state at the same time that the Socialists cannot support the alternative resolution, and there are a number of reasons for this. First of all, we do not want to support the proposal, because we do not want to play gambling with the Danish pension savings. The requirement for maximum return is not Thus, all Danish pension companies have guidelines for responsible investments based on recognised international standards and based on the so-called ESG factors. So even if the purpose is well-intentioned, we have to keep a beard on our own and snot on our own. And if we begin to demand that pension funds should manage the Danish pension savings on the basis of criteria other than profit and risk-sharing, then we are, in the view of the Socialists, at a loss of fundamental security. I think that many Danes are satisfied that they can go to bed every night without having to worry about whether they actually have something to live on in their old age because their pension savings are put into investments for purposes other than profit. In any case, the Socialists will not help us to move away from the current criteria. In addition, I think that there are a number of questions left unanswered by the motion for a resolution. Firstly, one might ask why it is necessary to call for a legislative proposal when 80%. the investments of pension companies today are made in sustainable projects such as wind turbines, offshore wind farms, biofuels, energy efficiency, etc. etc. So today's legislation does not prevent pension companies from investing green. Secondly, it is also uncertain how far down a product or a company supply chain, supply chain, should be taken into account for social and environmental sustainability, but it may be that the rapporteur for the motion for a resolution can explain it in his speech. It does not take much imagination to imagine how difficult and costly it will be for pension companies and members if all potential investments and their respective subcontractors are to be checked backwards in relation to the criteria set up today. I would just like to say that 85% of the population is already employed today. the industry itself by independent third parties to screen companies in which they invest, precisely on the basis of the criteria which the proposers wish to honour and which we agree with to that extent, but that is already happening today. This would make it impossible for a great many investments to be made and would result in the risk of huge losses, and that would be detrimental to Members. Indeed, according to the Socialists, the legislation is already uniting the possibility of taking into account a return with a socially responsible profile. The Socialists also have a green investment objective, and we believe that pension companies are already making a huge effort on a voluntary basis in this area. All in all, the resolution will put the Danes' pension situation much more at risk today, and that is why, as I said, the Socialists cannot support the proposal. And I hurry to say that I am also speaking on behalf of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428155809	There is a brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428155814	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. In my view, it is thought-provoking that pension companies already comply with a number of guidelines, for example. The UN Convention on Human Rights and so on, so we can say to our pension companies that they should not invest in child labour or such things. But we cannot tell them that they must also invest sustainably. What we want to do with this is to have both an economic return, that is to say a balance there, but also a balance on the other two parameters, and I do not think that would put pension companies at a disadvantage. If you look forward to the future, I believe that it will put them in a better position and also ensure an economic return on pension savers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428155903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428155904	I do not really know whether it was a question, but I take it as a comment. And then I would just like to say to Mrs Josephine Fock that already today pension companies are investing for 42 billion. kr. in sustainable companies, and that is over 80%. of the total pension assets currently invested by the actors concerned in renewable energy. So for me, the Alternative's rapporteur is kicking open doors into this context. Today, all Danish pension companies are affiliated with what is called PRI, among other things. also under the auspices of the United Nations, and exactly the principles of sustainability, human rights and so on are being respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428155944	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428155948	Does the rapporteur recognise that we have seen examples of pension companies that believe that they cannot go the way their members really want it to be so occupational pension companies because they feel bound by the fact that there must be a maximum financial profit, which means that they cannot invest as they want it to?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428160009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428160012	I note that the authors of the comments on the motion for a resolution state precisely that point of view, and I must admit that I do not find any evidence or evidence whatsoever of that point of view. So no, I don't recognize that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428160023	Thank you to Mrs Mette Reissmann. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428160031	The motion for a resolution which the Alternative has chosen to present here today is not one of the most brilliant motions for resolutions tabled here in the Folketing for the 11 years I have been a Member. In fact, it is one of the worst, I think, that has ever been put forward in the time I have been here at Christiansborg. I'm not saying that to bother the alternative. I recognise that it may be good to raise the moral agenda here in the Folketing, and it may also be progressive in terms of getting new voters to appear as the self-righteous, who are good at speaking solidarity and the fine feinschmeckers case. But that doesn't change the fact that this resolution is going in and starting to interfere in how people in Denmark should place their own pension funds. The proposers say that this is something you do in order for us to have better welfare in the future in Denmark. But I just think that the agenda that is there today is completely forgotten. And it is, of course, if you look at what it is that through recent generations has financed the Danish welfare model in relation to education and health and safe old age and everything else, among other things that we have a labour market where there are many jobs. And many of our jobs in Denmark are either directly or directly dependent on, for example, oil and gas deposits. Our production in Danish factories is also dependent on electricity, and they are also dependent on gas, and they are also dependent on oil. Many of the products we produce are also dependent on it. That is why it is quite a provocation to come now and then appear like these smug feinschmeckers who say that now we have to decide how other people should use their pension funds. No, we're not. It must be only a premise between those who manage the pension funds of their members and those who have been employed to do so. If you look at a general meeting of a pension company that you think you want to change the way you practice and enforce your investment portfolio, then Members and investors must of course be allowed to do so. We do not want to start dictating in here from the Folketing in areas where it does not make sense. Already today, if you look at the current investment rules, it is the case that there are no barriers at all that prevent each pension company from establishing an investment strategy that focuses on responsible investment, also in the environmentally sustainable area. Then the alternative says that it must be a socially and environmentally sustainable way of doing it. Then I would say: what is the political definition of sustainability? Is it the same if you're a socialist as if you're a liberal? It is not in the Danish People's Party's optics. In fact, we believe that these conceptual values can be very different, depending on the background you have and how you think things should be operational in a welfare society. That is why everything else will always be a taste assessment, whether you think you are good and whether you are good. You may be able to get a grade in relation to being good at an exam, but words like being good and good are not something you can get a grade for, and neither can you in this case. But basically, I think that this motion for a resolution is extremely superfluous. Morality is a good thing, but this is a double standard. There was, for example. also yesterday, when we saw the City of Copenhagen going out with a majority in the Citizen's Representation saying: We have to sell our A.P. Møller-Mærsk shares because they're wrong to have. It is not fair to have invested money in oil and gas. But at the same time, the City of Copenhagen would like money from the 750 million. kr., as the A.P. Møller's Support Fund yesterday went out and added to among other things. to ensure social sustainability for those groups that are worst off in Denmark. This is double standards, and so it is with this motion for a resolution that you go in and say that you want to dictate how people should invest their money. We in the Danish People's Party do not think that should be done. So I would like to say: how is our own pension here in the Folketing? Where's the money coming from? They come from taxpayers and from taxes and all sorts of other good things. So some of the money comes from, among other things. oil and gas and from Danish production, which includes oil and gas deposits. Oil and gas deposits have been here many, many years, and we have made a lot, much money on it over the ages. That is why it is also somewhat double standards of the Alternative's own members of parliament; they will get their pension, like the rest of us, I do, of course, recognise that, but why do we have to go in and tell some in some pension companies that they are now about to have a smaller pension because they are about to invest in a different way? It's not something we should get involved in. It is only a matter between those they have employed for it, and then those who are members of the enterprise. That is why we cannot support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428160552	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Hans Kristian Skibby. And it's from Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428160559	Thank you to the rapporteur. I just want to know if the Danish People's Party recognises that we have made a COP21 agreement. Or is it also a completely irresponsible agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428160612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428160613	I do not really know what the COP21 agreement has to do with this resolution. But I can at least say that the agreements that lie in this House about our way of regulating Danish pension funds are a matter for us and we are firmly committed to them. We think it is common sense that those who pay into capital pensions and pension schemes and everything else help themselves to determine how their money is spent. That is what this resolution is all about. We must take a stand against the fact that someone other than those who own the money has to decide how the money is managed so that we can say afterwards: look at how economically sustainable we are if we measure ourselves on social criteria and criteria on green energy and everything else. So it's a slippery slope of the big ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428160655	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428160659	Then I just want to point out that COP21 is about us committing ourselves to the fact that the temperature in the world should not rise more than these maximum 2 degrees. That's kind of what this proposal's gonna help with. With this resolution, we do not set any limits on what the individual pension company can invest in. The company can decide for itself. We're just saying that there has to be balance on all three bottom lines.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428160726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428160728	Excuse me. Even if we adopted this resolution, how much impact would it have on the average temperature in the world? Well, we're fucked up, I should say hello.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428160742	There is one more brief comment, Mr President. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428160745	It is a bit brave, I think, of a rapporteur for the Danish People's Party to point out that a proposal is the most crazy one ever put forward in the Folketing. But let it go. Part of this money we're talking about, which is in these pension funds, is deferred taxes. Well, it's because you have a tax credit. A large proportion of them are later taxed, which means that it is basically some money which could just as well have been in the treasury and thus be some we had politically at our disposal. Does the rapporteur not think that it has a role to play in the fact that a large part of the funds we are talking about have been deferred tax, in other words as later paid in tax, because we have set up our pension system in the way we have, in order to encourage pension savings? Well, it's not just savers' money, if I may say so. A large part of them is society's money.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428160841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428160842	Now Enhedslisten is well known to me as a great advocate of our having agreements in Denmark. So I am very surprised if the Enhedslisten suddenly does not think it is quite right to follow the agreements that are. So it is now the case that a large number of Danish employees, including public employees and all sorts of others, have an agreement linked to their employment, in which a certain amount of money is added to a pension scheme. Has the Enhedslist suddenly become opposed to it? I hope that is not the case, of course. It is true, however, that one has of course a possession of how one's pension funds are spent. The Danish People's Party clearly takes the view that the pension funds that you receive as part of your salary should, for example, be paid to you. Makes 50,000 kroner. a month and gets 8,000 kroner. In other words, it is part of one's income to be on the labour market and to do one's job. Then some of it's called a deferred tax... I know that... and of course there's a synergy in that, compared to the fact that if the money is invested optimally, there's a larger pension for the individual employee. But has Enhedslisten suddenly become opposed to people being lucky too to have a good old age? I mean, I think it seems very, very admirable, but I just do not agree with that premise.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428160956	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428160957	I don't think I got an answer. On the other hand, I got a lot of loose claims about Enhedslisten's policy. No, we certainly think that the population should have good pension conditions. Labour market pensions are a relatively new phenomenon, which means that very, very large billions are saved, of which part of the money is deferred tax. We think that the discussion that the Alternative raises is relevant, namely that one asks: can we ensure that that money does not just work in order to create good old age? They must, of course, but can we also provide a framework to ensure social considerations in a number of other areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428161030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428161032	Should the logical price for it then be that people can look forward to a more insecure old age and a lower pension benefit? That is the consequence of it. It's no use shaking your head off. Because if you are forced to impose more constraints on what the money must be invested in, it is very difficult to make long-term investments, including for a pension industry. That is why, of course, there is common sense in the fact that those who decide this are the ones who have saved money and the ones they have hired to manage it. So there's the ball pretty good, and I'm quite comfortable with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428161103	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm on behalf of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428161114	Thank you. As our usual rapporteur was unable to be present, I will give the speech on behalf of him. Thank you for the floor. As already mentioned in the previous speeches, this motion for a resolution must require the government to ensure that social and environmental sustainability is a requirement on an equal footing with the requirements for risk diversification and financial returns on investments. In my view, it is absolutely crucial that a pension company secures its customers the highest possible return. The return is extremely important for what economic situation you will be in when you become a pensioner. We already see that there are large differences in returns in different pension societies and associations and that, in fact, over a long working life it will be of great importance. The primary objective of pension savings is therefore to ensure that the pension saver receives a good return on his or her pension. It should remain so. Let me make it clear, just as the Minister for Business and Growth has already done, that the current rules do not prevent the focus being placed on responsible investments based on criteria such as social and environmental sustainability when companies make investment strategies. I would like to acknowledge that the alternative in the comments to the proposal itself actually highlights this fact: although the FSA has established that disposal of this type of asset and prioritising of an ethical investment profile is possible within the existing legislation, it is the clear conviction of the proposers that Danish pension companies, either consciously or unconsciously, are locked in an investment paradigm that belongs to the past. So it is possible today. The alternative just goes on. It must be a duty. Pensioners are players in a market where the job is to invest the best possible. It must be up to the consumer to assess the best possible prospects. If the best means is to make a lot of money for your savings, people can choose a company that meets this objective. Instead, the absence of investment in e.g. fossil fuels, you can choose from that point of view. For transversal pension funds, members have the opportunity to influence the types of investment. Otherwise, in some cases it is free to change pension companies. If you can't vote on the matter, you can vote with your feet. So the Left does not support the proposal. As the Minister for Business and Growth also explained, both under the current government and the previous government, the Left has taken various initiatives to promote the social responsibility of companies and pension companies. With a demand that the main purpose of pension savings is, as the alternative suggests, we do not support the proposal by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428161407	There is a brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428161412	Thank you to the rapporteur. We could also ask the Left whether due care should not be taken. Today, after all, we are really investing in the very short term, and we are investing solely on the basis of economic considerations. And the closer we get to not meeting the COP21 targets when it comes to these temperature increases that we would like to keep to, the more we can risk our pension customers having a really bad financial return. So you could also see this as helping pension companies to saddle up and exercise due diligence.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428161455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428161456	Now I am not a business rapporteur, but I would nevertheless like to answer the question and say that I believe that pension companies have the opportunity to decide for themselves and customers have the opportunity to decide for themselves. They can determine this by deciding on the board where they have representatives sitting in relation to occupational pensions are both employers and trade unions represented there, and there is an ongoing discussion on how our money should be invested and where democratic influence can be exercised. In the other pension companies, you can just as a customer choose someone who fits in with the preferences you have. So the customers can decide for themselves. I think that's the right way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428161533	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428161534	Fortunately, we now have the system in Denmark that I support, that we have occupational pensions. That's where the customers can't actually move their money. However, I think I would like to ask the question about the fact that through our pension companies in Denmark we are investing for 2 000 billion. kr., does not mean that we as Parliament can demand that they take a social responsibility in making a sustainable transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428161602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428161603	It is true that when it comes to occupational pensions, you cannot just move the money because you are dependent on your agreement, but there you have codecision, because there is democracy in an occupational pension company. So there you can influence that way through and determine which direction to invest in. I know that this is an ongoing discussion. I myself have worked in an occupational pension scheme, and I know how much this concerns them. So I certainly know that this is one of the things that we attach great importance to. Then I would say to them that we must impose it on them: I still do not believe that this is a task for the state. We have an occupational pension company and a pension market where people are free to choose. I think this is the way we should go, and then you have to let them decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428161642	Well, then, sir. Pelle Dragsted opportunity to get a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428161646	I think I agree that the primary objective of a pension fund is to secure a pension it is, as in the nature of things, but I do not think that it means that you cannot also think in terms of other objectives as long as they do not conflict with the first objective, and they do not have to do so. My question is actually just: does the rapporteur of the Left believe that any investment from pension funds is okay, as long as Members can just choose the places where it can be done? In other words, there are no limits to child labour, forced labour, nuclear weapons, cluster weapons? Should there not be any framework for this in the rapporteur's view?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428161734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428161735	There is already a certain framework, and I also believe that many of these pension companies are very sensitive to the debate that is going on. Therefore, many of them stop many of the investments that have been criticised openly and publicly. For example: It has not been prohibited to invest in cluster bombs, but I do not believe that there are any pension companies left investing in cluster bombs. I do not have the figures on me, but I certainly know that this is something from which they have practically all fled, because it is so taboo and because they have made an ethical choice and said: we do not want to invest in cluster bombs. It also shows that the system works, that the pressure exerted by customers, on the part of the public, has an influence. In this way, I think the system actually works the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428161817	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428161819	Unfortunately, we see repeatedly that if it's not cluster bombs, it's these blood diamonds, blood bonds or other things. Unfortunately, then, we are seeing a development in which attention is paid to one area, and then perhaps for a period of time investment moves away from those areas and then onto some other areas. But I do not think I was given a very clear answer as to whether the rapporteur thinks there is a limit or not. Well, can we legislate to some level? Is it about the scope of the alternative's proposal or about the very principle of saying that there are some investments that you simply will not accept?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428161852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428161853	Well, that's where I think we should stick to the line we have at this point. I think that's a really nice line. Within that framework, I think it is quite fine and I think it works well as it is. As I can see from the motion for a resolution, it is a question of establishing special rules for investments for pension companies which do not apply, for example. investment firms. I also think that is rather strange. Why should pension companies have a more critical approach to investment than all sorts of others who invest?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428161922	Thank you to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428161937	As my questions have also shown, we are fundamentally in favour of the alternative's proposal, and we would also like to commend the alternative for raising this discussion again on the investments of pension funds. After all, our pension funds play a fairly crucial role in our economy and in our investments, because this is a huge amount of billions. And that is something relatively new: our occupational pensions are not many decades old, which means that a phenomenon has arisen, particularly in Denmark, compared to many other countries. And when you introduced it, you made these rules that there should be a risk spread and that you should ensure the best possible return. This means that the area was regulated. That's the regulation we're interfering in here with how these pension funds want to invest, and I think that's totally and completely in order. Since then, some things have happened in the world, among others. That is why I think it is quite appropriate to ask ourselves whether, in the case of the money tanks which, as I mentioned earlier, are partly made up of funds that have been deferred and which are therefore basically all our resources, we should make some other demands in this regard. In other words, one might wonder whether it is appropriate for the employees' own money to be invested in companies such as companies in many cases in a way that is directly contrary to the interests of employees. are so-called union busters, that is to say, seeking to undermine professional organisation, in companies that store their money in so-called tax havens, or it may be, as we have seen in terms of ethical considerations, investments in dictatorships around the world. Then, as has also been said from up here, I recognise that there are some dilemmas associated with this, that is to say the question: is this something that we have to interfere with here, or is it something that has to be decided, by customers moving towards the company or pension funds, which are at least on paper democratic, some of the occupational pensions, even though it is often a little more of name than of benefit when it comes to the matter? Is this something we should actually rather leave to local democracy in the democratic of them and to what can we say, supply and demand, so that people, as another rapporteur also said, could vote with their feet? I think that is a completely real dilemma. However, when I and we are leaning towards supporting the alternative proposal, it is for a number of reasons. One is, as I said, that for a very large part of these billions we are talking about a deferred tax. In other words, it is money that gets involved in tax, but which has been expected to be included in order to encourage pension savings. And that is to say, it is basically funds which are the resources of the common fund. They're just gonna be in the joint stock at a later stage than they would otherwise have come if you hadn't created the tax profile you've created. The second point, and the authors of the motion for a resolution, is that it is not so easy to move from many of these pension funds. Finally, we also see in many places that the real possibility of influence is not very great in relation to some of the occupational pensions. That is why we think it is reasonable to make some political demands. Then there have been some comments from some of the other rapporteurs. It has been said that it will just mean that people get less pension and that it is gambling. That's not true. In other words, the alternative does not propose to remove the requirement here, the imperative that one should invest in a way that yields returns and that one should spread risk. Some additional requirements are added, and so it is not the case that investments that are green and sustainable are less profitable than other investments. It's a myth. Moreover, I think it is rather strange to use the concept of gambling when, in this proposal, we deal with the whole issue of the climate disaster facing the world. If there is something to be done about gambling, then it is not to take that problem seriously, including investments in fossil energy, which must be settled as soon as possible. So, to conclude, yes, the primary objective of the pension system is to ensure a good retirement for employees. If it is possible to combine it with regard to the survival of our planet, with regard to proper jobs and working conditions in Denmark, with regard to a number of such social considerations, then we think it is a sensible idea. And we look forward to continuing the discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428162457	Then there are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428162503	Thank you. I don't know if sir. Pelle Dragsted did not listen when, like me, I made some figures in my rapporteur's speech about how much is actually being invested in renewable energy by Danish pension companies today. When I listen to Mr. Knox... Pelle Dragsted, it seems to me that he simply does not have enough insight into how much money we are actually talking about, and whether one has to have a legal duty to create, as well as an incentive to ensure that renewable energy is invested, which gives a very good and sensible return when we talk about pension savers' money. So I would like to hear from you now to ask a completely different question: why should pension companies be imposed on this legal framework if other investors are not to? This applies, for example, to municipalities and regions or, at the very least, to investment funds. Why not take the step fully and then say that it is all investors that have to be imposed on this? Why should pension companies suffer?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428162557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428162558	That was a lot of questions. I heard the rapporteur's figures and some of them did not add up very well. The fact is, and it has come to light, that the pension funds have large investments in fossil energy, and the fact is that an agreement has been made in Paris which means that we have to get rid of those investments in fossil energy. There you can just say: we are taking it slow, we are not taking it so seriously, it is in fact just an agreement that we have signed. Or you can look all the way around and find out how we in Denmark can contribute to this. In relation to pension funds and other investors, I would like to see investment requirements being made at all, but it is just the special thing about pension funds that this is a deferred tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428162645	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428162647	I believe that the third sentence I made was that we clearly support the COP21 agreements and that, of course, we support green investments. So again, I just want to say that Mr. Pelle Dragsted must have had his thoughts elsewhere while I was giving my rapporteur's speech. But, now, I just want to ask, does Enhedslisten and mr. Pelle Dragsted in favour of simply abolishing investment in fossil fuels? Then why not just ban the production of fossil fuels tomorrow? It is a bit girlish to only support a resolution that goes on investment through pension companies. Take the step to the full and offer fossil fuels. That's where I want to hear Enhedslisten and mr. Pelle Dragsted: Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428162728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428162729	I am therefore so looking forward to the Socialist Parliamentary Group starting to put forward proposals that could seriously put an end to the use of fossil fuels so that we can live up to those proposals. We will look at them with interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428162743	The next comment is from Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428162748	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Pelle Dragsted about this with the huge amount of money that the Danes, for example, pay in PRS taxes. After all, many of the people who pay the PSO tax have an income in order for them to be able to pay their PRS tax. Many of the people who then pay the PRS tax have their income from related industries or directly from industries which to some extent use oil and gas deposits, either as a production company or simply as a part of those who work in the North Sea, etc. After all, they help to finance the PSO and thus the switch to green energy and wind power etc. Does the rapporteur not recognise this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428162830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428162831	I mean, I think we're moving completely away from what this resolution is about. In fact, I do not think I understand where the rapporteur is going.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428162840	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428162841	I actually think it's very logical where I'm going with this question. When you go in there and put some restrictions on what people have to invest in, it means something. If, for example, you're gonna have to... invests in oil and gas and there will be fewer Danish jobs in the North Sea; there will be fewer within the distribution lines; and there may be less competitiveness in our manufacturing companies in Denmark and therefore more jobs will have to be found elsewhere, so they will pay less in tax, and it may also be that they cannot really pay their PRS taxes, and it is many billions a year we are talking about. That's why it's important. And that's the clutch, which I think both Mr. Pelle Dragsted and the authors of the motion completely ignore the fact that there is a link between where the money comes from and where it is going. This is the clutch that I think Enhedslisten should try to dive a little closer into.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428162933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428162934	But it could also be that it was the second that was the result of making demands, for example. on proper working conditions, on collective protection, on environmental production, would actually mean that more investment decreased in Denmark. I think that is actually more likely than the horror scenario put forward by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. But listen to me: No matter how we turn and turn it around here, we are going to have to make a significant change in our economy all over the world. This is absolutely essential and necessary. And yes, that will mean that there are jobs that are no longer there. On the other hand, it will mean that there will be new jobs. And the countries and companies that are the first to convert, to reduce their energy consumption, to find new forms of circulation, are the countries and companies that will be the winners in the future. Because the whole world is facing a transition. And that is what the Danish People's Party will not understand. You think short-sightedly. One does not take responsibility for one of the biggest challenges facing us as humanity in these years, and that is actually a bit worrying.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428163058	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428163116	Thank you. I hardly know if there is anything else I can add. That has been said so well by the previous rapporteurs, minus Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted. We cannot support this resolution, and we cannot do so for the reasons that have already been mentioned. It must be pension companies that manage their customers' money with the aim of achieving the highest possible profit for their customers. Therefore, they must be able to invest in fully legal companies around the world. We should not interfere in which companies they invest in, and we believe that if they did, it would have exactly the opposite consequences than the intention of the motion for a resolution. I think there are many things that are overlooked in this motion for a resolution, among others. the fact that investment in countries which are less prosperous than Denmark is a prerequisite for those countries to have a higher prosperity and thus for the citizens of those countries to have a higher standard of living. A higher standard of living, by its very nature, has quite a positive effect on the citizens of those countries. The fact that a population's standard of living is being raised saves life. This reduces child mortality, which means that it will be possible for the population to be better educated and so on. etc. It is, after all, the positive externalities associated with a high level of investment. So if we go in and limit, for example. the ability of pension companies to invest, this will have some very negative consequences for real people in poorer countries. We think that would be a pity, and we think it is a consequence that is not addressed at all in this motion for a resolution. That is why we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428163345	There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428163350	Thank you to the rapporteur. Did I hear correctly when I heard the rapporteur say that pension companies must invest in exactly what they want, without considering the possible consequences for life and health, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428163406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428163407	After all, the starting point must be that pension companies, like all sorts of others, can invest in fully legal and legal companies. This does not mean that there is no debate or that one does not think about and possibly make ethical considerations, etc. If it is then the case that there is some production that you want banned, and hence some industries that you want to be abolished, then you have to do so in law in the countries concerned or through international agreements. But that is the responsibility that politicians must assume if that is the way they want to go. This should not be done indirectly by prohibiting private investors from investing in particular sectors or companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428163519	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428163521	Then I'll ask another question. So, I hear the rapporteur says that in pension companies ethical considerations must be taken into account, and the question I would like to ask is: can ethical considerations and action only be taken if it does not reduce economic profits?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428163542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428163543	Private investors need to think about what they want to do. But I also think there is such a false contradiction here and it is that there should be something morally wrong in investing in industries that are poorer than Denmark. Well, my point is that we should be very careful to sit up here in Denmark and make us judges of what is morally right. We must remember, of course, that the level of prosperity we have has not come from chance. We have also in Denmark decades ago had industries where the working environment has certainly not lived up to the standards we have today, but because we have become richer, we have been able to develop. But it is a development that should not be pushed down on other countries, because it must come naturally, and it comes from the fact that one becomes more prosperous. And if you prevent investment, that development will slow down.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428163709	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted's trip to a short note.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428163711	Now it's a little more nuanced than that. After all, we have many examples of investment in, for example. The developing countries, too, are going straight into the pockets of corrupt despots and therefore do not create any local development at all. But it is true that the other may also be the case, so this is not really that simple. But I would like to make it concrete. The rapporteur says it must be legal companies, but now the legislation is very different in different countries of the world. In a country such as: Colombia we have companies that have targeted the eradication of professionally active people. They have been killed by death squads paid by companies, because then you could better get pressure on wages and so on. Is it okay to invest in that type of business if it is such that it can just give marginally more in return?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428163805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428163806	It may well be that investments can end up in the pockets of the wrong people. So can foreign aid. I think that there is more foreign aid that ends up in the wrong pockets than there are investments that end up in the wrong pockets. As far as Colombia is concerned, I am not quite aware of the specific companies to which reference is made, but the premise on this question should be that the pension companies themselves have no consideration in this regard, i.e. that they have no ethical code whatsoever, in relation to which companies they wish to invest in. And that's wrong, because you have. There is also pressure, and it is also part of a market and a free society, that we have a debate, that we have journalists and a critical press looking at what investments are being made. That pressure also helps to shift the focus on investments if there are problems. However, my point is that there is something moral about this, in the sense that we tend to forget our own development and how we have come here, and we believe that we can only make sure that other countries quickly reach our level of prosperity by means of legislation. And we can't. This requires investment, and that is why I believe that this will have the opposite effect of what you really want.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428163945	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428163946	It requires investment, but it does not matter what it is investment in, and that is what this proposal is about. However, I welcome the fact that, as I understand the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, it is not the case that the rapporteur thinks that it is okay for the rapporteur to invest so that the rapporteur calls it moralizing in companies, such as the United Kingdom. kill their employees or other things. The rapporteur just does not think that this is something we should legislate on politically, and I think that is a completely relevant dilemma. But I am glad that I understood this, because from the rapporteur's own speech it could well be that we got the impression that as long as it was a legal matter, no matter what country it was in the world, and it could yield a return, you just had to give up in order to get the best possible return for savers. But it is positive that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428164033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428164035	I don't like any people who kill other people. I would very much like to stress this point. But my starting point is • and that is what I am trying to say • that, of course, pension companies and others must invest in fully legal companies. This does not mean that there is no debate and that there is no pressure on different investors in relation to what they invest in. There is a debate in pension companies about what to invest in and there is a public debate about investment. It is also something that affects investment firms, in addition to their own thinking. I think that is something they are doing quite well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428164127	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. There are no more comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428164135	Unlike some of the previous rapporteurs, I think it is always a good idea to discuss ways of achieving sustainable growth in the world. We must remember that, according to the OECD, over the next 15 years, the world economy will be doubled. It is 3 billion new middle-class citizens that we are going to have to house on this planet, and that means that the growth we are getting in the world must be sustainable. I think it is good to discuss what can be done on the Danish side to promote this development. At the same time, I must say that I think that the authors of the motion could perhaps have done their research a little more thoroughly and dug a spade in greater depth, in relation to what it is actually for some barriers institutional investors are facing today in terms of promoting investment in sustainable and green development, just as I think that there are some fundamental dilemmas in this proposal which lead us to turn our thumbs down radically. These are three things that we have in mind here. Firstly, we believe to a large extent that the alternative here kicks in an open door, because when we look at what is actually happening in pension companies at the moment, it goes year by year, as far as we can see, the right way. At the end of 2014, Insurance & Pension calculates that at that time 42 billion have been invested. kr. in climate projects around, while only 15.7 billion have been invested. kr. in fossil fuels, and as far as we are aware, the last figure is decreasing and investment in climate projects is increasing. So it is simply going the right way, and it is gratifying. Secondly, there is the lack of projects. In fact, when you ask the pension companies how hard we have been in Radicals, because we think it is important to have a dialogue with the industry and to listen to where it is really the pressure of the shoe before we come into touch with centralist decisions from in here you are told that the biggest barrier at the moment is actually the lack of good projects. This means a lack of demand, or, to put it another way, a political framework in other countries and in Denmark that ensures that there are climate projects to invest in. Because if there isn't, it doesn't help that there are a lot of pension companies that want to. And that means that it is quite so much to influence demand and the political framework that is important. On the other hand, I would like to give a hundred per cent commitment to all parties that, together with Radicals, will work to create clearer legislation both in Denmark and in Europe and as many places in the world as possible to install more renewable energy, investments in green building renovation, etc. etc. But we think that's where the fight is. That brings me to the third and, in fact, probably the most important point for us, because it is a very fundamental point: who should decide on the money of pension savers. Who will take democratic control? Who should influence how their own savings are spent? In fact, we think that should be the Members themselves. And we note with great pleasure that at several general meetings of pension funds there is a general majority in order to require the boards of directors to invest more offensively in those areas. We have also taken note of the fact that some people are then beating themselves up a bit, and this gives a fantasticly important debate and a fantastic nerve and a fantastic ownership of the green transition, and it is much better than that we come from above and want to legislate on the part of the state about everything. We think it's much better to grassroots base this and build up the change from below too and allow people to participate in it. We also note that in several municipalities a mood is being created for the municipalities not to invest in everything I think that the very first place it happened was actually in Roskilde, where one of the radical urban roots took the lead by taking this up. And again it creates ownership. We would rather take the road that I have mentioned than go in and make a centralist planning which is complicated, because we then need to define exactly what sustainability is and is not for individual pension companies, where it will often be the case that the very specific choices are very, very concrete, and it also requires a very concrete responsibility that we dare to give to pension companies and Members themselves, because we think that this is how our democracy works best.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428164622	It gave rise to a few brief remarks. The first one's from sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428164628	As I said myself, I think it is entirely appropriate to take a position on this dilemma. Is this something to be legislated on, or is it something to create the movement that is going on in many parts of the pension funds that are potentially democratically governed? In this context, I would really like to ask a question. We know that many of these occupational pensions are more democratic on paper than in reality. So could it be imagined that it is just an open question to impose requirements on occupational pension companies and other pension companies for direct customer involvement? It is therefore an alternative to the alternative proposal. We have, for example. in MP Pension seen that the Executive Board will nevertheless not follow what a majority has decided etc. etc. There are some problems out there. People hit their heads against some ceilings when they try this. So would it be something you might be able to discuss?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428164728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428164729	I think that is an exciting discussion. As far back as the formation of occupational pensions we actually had that debate both in the Folketing and outside the Folketing. It was about a fantastic opportunity for economic democracy in that people can help determine where their pension savings should be directed. It must then be balanced, it can be said, in the face of the economic considerations that exist, that those Members who invest today do so on behalf of future generations. We have had a dull example of BUPL, which came to make some wrong investments, which means that a group that already does not make too much money has actually ended up with less savings than they really needed to have got because that balance was not in order. So I'm not reluctant to take that discussion. I'm just delighted that this whole climate issue seems to have worked out there in such a way that that debate has been kicked a hole in it. Something suggests that if Members want to have influence, they can actually take it. So I have some doubts as to what to say. Pelle Dragsted, as you might be able to hear, because I'm kind of involved in promoting this, if that's possible. But preferably from below instead of from above.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428164844	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428164847	I understand that position very well. The only problem is that in some of these pension funds it is actually impossible for members to have real influence because it is at the top of the trade. There are no direct elections to these boards. It's just a challenge if that's the way we have to go to get these investments out of business. Then I just have a completely different short question. After all, we are now making demands on pension funds. We demand risk diversification and returns. Is it not strange, then, to refuse to make an additional demand which takes some other considerations than this particular one? I am following here the alternative's way of looking at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428164935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428164936	So, as I said, my impression is that investment in pension funds is going the right way steadily. The biggest barrier to getting more climate-friendly investments, for example, is the lack of good projects. A particular challenge relates to investments in developing countries where there is a significantly greater risk, but where there is also enormous potential. So I would rather discuss whether we can do more to take the risk of investing in sustainable projects in developing countries, for example. through IFU, which we are already working on with a climate fund, thus creating more and more attractive projects. I think, in fact, that it is addressing the problem more precisely rather than making more rules and dragging them down over the heads of pension companies. At least that's the way it is when I ask the pension companies. When you look at what the pension companies have actually done, you see that there is something that suggests that it is not just something they say, because development is very clear. Fortunately, more and more investments are being made in climate projects and less in fossil fuels.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428165038	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428165042	Thank you to the rapporteur. I very much agree that there must be many more climate projects to invest in. According to the rapporteur, can the problem not also be that they are precisely not profitable enough and therefore there is no possibility of investing in them by pension companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428165059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428165101	Thank you for the question. In fact, I disagree slightly with the authors of the motion that there is a contradiction between the two. In fact, I think over the last five years it has been possible to develop technology in these projects, which means that if you build on a bare field, and you do so, for example. in many EU countries, wind turbines on land today are the cheapest form of energy at all. At least that's what the energy companies are telling us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428165132	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428165135	Thank you. It's not always like that. There's a start-up of projects. One of the things the alternative advocates is that there must be public investment to get these projects up and running. However, does the rapporteur not agree that pension companies also have a responsibility, given how much money they have to invest in promoting investment in climate and socially sustainable projects?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428165202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428165203	Yes. I think that our approach to the whole green transition is that if it is to go fast enough and radically enough, it requires that the contradictions between doing good and being economically viable be eliminated. We are very, very far off in the field of energy. This is one of the reasons why the whole world is looking at the Danish model. Not only do we soon have 80%. renewable energy in our electricity etc., we also have some of the lowest market prices on electricity in our market. The fact that we then impose a lot of taxes is another matter. But the market price is among the lowest in Europe. It's profitable. It's a really good business. That is why China has begun to copy. That is why a large number of countries copy the Nordic model. That's because it's profitable. And that is why it must be able to stand for itself in terms of investment. But, of course, in countries where there is no market security and where there are political risks, that is to say, other than technological risks, we need to help create attractive projects in order to succeed. However, I do not see a contradiction between being environmentally sound and economically profitable.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428165315	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428165323	If it is profitable, why is there a need to charge 8 billion? kr. per year in the PSO tax from citizens and companies to support wind farms?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428165339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428165340	I assume that the questioner refers to the so-called PESO. I'm not gonna blame sir. Joachim B. Olsen for not knowing so much about energy policy. A lot of people in this Parliament don't. But before we had PESO for wind turbines, we had PESO for coal power plants. The fact is that for many, many decades electricity prices have been so low and energy investments so long-term that the electricity price itself cannot bear new investments in production capacity, whether it be coal, a-power or wind. So the PRS we charge today is a fee to invest in new production capacity, and whether it's coal, a power or wind we invest in, we have to have that fee if we want to produce something in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428165425	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428165428	It's black talk. I have to say it is. It cannot be claimed that anything is profitable if it is dependent on massive State aid. That is simply wrong. I am not in favour of state aid for any forms of energy. But to claim that it is profitable for Denmark that it creates jobs for Denmark, that it increases our prosperity in Denmark, that we have a PRS tax that increases year by year, is not true.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428165504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428165505	Now it's not state subsidies. It is a charge imposed on electricity consumers that they also have some electricity to use in 5, 10 and 20 years' time. Before they were given to windmills, they were given to coal power stations, as I said. Denmark has made a lot of money on this, because we have exported a lot of electricity through the ages produced on coal, gas and now wind. One may well have the view that Denmark should only import electricity and not produce it itself, but I do not think that is a very good socio-economic idea. But it is a very, very common myth that the entire PSP is an expense for the green transition. That's just not correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428165546	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428165601	Of course, the overall purpose of pension companies, their raison d'être, is to ensure that pension recipients receive the highest possible return. We must have confidence and confidence in the proper management of our savings, so that we can also have a safe and secure old age. That must be the first premise when discussing a proposal such as that put forward by the Alternative in the Danish Parliament today. There is no barrier at all to the fact that, as a pension company, we can organise a strategy, a policy that focuses on the investments that the alternative, for example. have pointed out in their motion for a resolution. However, we in the Conservatives would be very opposed to an explicit legal requirement for this. If you have that idea, if you want other investments, then as a customer who saves pensions, you can go in and choose a company that has that profile. Or, as a pension member, you can have the opportunity to influence the investment strategy, because at the general meeting you can make your point and help change that strategy. There is openness about investment policy. When the VK government in 2008, i.e. 7-8 years ago, made a policy in this area, a demand was made for larger companies, including pension companies, to explain their social responsibility policy. The whole CSR issue was taken very seriously and all companies had to explain it. So it is explicit that we have to explain it. It is also the case that, as a pension saver, you can decide on it and choose for yourself. However, the primary and decisive objective of a pension company must be to manage the pension savers' money in the best possible and safest way, so that you also have money for your old age. That is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428165813	There is a brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428165817	Thank you. I understand the Conservative rapporteur's view that it is in fact only economic considerations that must be taken into account in relation to pension returns. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428165830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428165831	No, that is to say, companies must comply with the legislation in this area and must set their own policies. But what we can demand from the Danish Parliament is that there is a focus on returns. Then, as a pensioner, you have to decide for yourself which pension company you have your resources in, and you have to play a part in shaping the strategy it has. After all, companies must comply with the law on good practice. As I mentioned, we ourselves helped implement good practice in 2008, which means having transparency in publishing our investment policy. And then, as a customer, you can also with the rules that today move with your feet, so to speak, that is, you can move your savings to another company if you are not satisfied with that company's investment profile.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428165913	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428165914	And I am told that the pension companies have no responsibility whatsoever for the fact that we are moving sufficiently quickly to meet COP21's requirements. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428165928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428165929	It must be understood that I will not impose any further demands on private companies than those we adopt in the Folketing. In other words, we are adopting rules, for example. in the environment, in the Folketing, and we must stand by them. Then we must not expect private companies to go further than that. Suit yourself. It is positive if they do, but it must be up to them. After all, we cannot force any companies to implement something that has not been passed by law in Denmark. After all, the most important thing for a pension company must be to ensure that we have money for our old age when we invest our money and place our money in a pension company. And then you have to be able to move towards another company if you're not happy with that company.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428170007	A brief comment from Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428170011	Well, I really don't think anyone in this room has challenged the fact that the primary purpose of pension savings is that we have a pension. The only question is whether, in addition to that requirement, without conflicting with that requirement, we can set up a further framework for pension funds that encourages behaviour that is beneficial to employees, to social considerations, to our climate. That is, of course, what the debate is about, and I just think it is important to stick to that. I would actually just like to ask the rapporteur, as the other rapporteurs have done: does the rapporteur not think that there should be limits to what pension funds can invest in if only it provides the best possible return? Is that the only consideration? I have mentioned examples of companies pursuing professionally active activities in other parts of the world. So, are you open to discussing where the limit should go, or is it just the case that what counts is the maximum return, and then you condone the rest?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428170114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428170116	I have always had the fundamental approach to politics, that one should be careful not to make oneself a moral judge of others. What we adopt in the Folketing must be respected. And if sir... Pelle Dragsted is not satisfied with his pension company, sir. Pelle Dragsted moved his pension. It's sir. Pelle Dragsted very welcome to. So am I. What I have of private opinions, I hold to my own investment and my own pension savings. From this point of view, I can only state what is Danish law and, of course, that law must be complied with by pension companies, for example. about transparency, CSR, etc. But it must be the case that it is at the general meeting that it is decided what investment policy is, and then, as a customer, you have to find out where you want to place your money. If we go in and interfere in that relationship, we create a distortion, so it is not certain that you as a customer will get the best possible return. And that is the interest we must have as legislators, and then as a customer we must decide for ourselves on the basis of our policies, on the basis of our morals, on the basis of our ethical guidelines, where we want our investment. We can only have an interest in pension companies focusing on maximum return, and then as a customer you can focus on ethics, morality and whatever else you have of interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428170234	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428170235	But it goes without saying that pension companies must follow the law. The alternative then proposes to introduce a different law. That is what we are discussing. To this it can be said that pension companies are investing globally, and we cannot, of course, prosecute or pass laws for those companies in South America or Burma or elsewhere that are pursuing professionally active, human rights activists and others. So this is a little more complicated than that. So my question is really just: what exactly is the rapporteur's own position? Is it okay that a company invests in unethical ways, if only that's what gives the highest return?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428170316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428170318	I can only relate to what's legal and what's not legal. That is what we need to deal with as a legislator. We're not moral judges in this Parliament. We're not. It's sir. Pelle Dragsted completely 100 percent welcome to be with his own money and his family's money, and whatever else he has at his disposal of course he is allowed to do so. But in here we are not moral guardians. In this context, we must deal with the legislation and what it is possible to legislate on. I think it is quite fair that people, for example. I have a position on professional work, investment in certain forms of energy, etc., and I personally have a position on that too, but it must of course depend on how I place my own funds and where I choose to rely on the best possible return, while also being ethically and morally satisfied with the company in which I am now a customer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428170410	Thank you, sir. Brian Mikkelsen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428170431	I would like to thank you for the debate that has taken place on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Alternative, which deals with the social and environmental sustainability of investments by Danish pension companies. I would like to make a few preliminary comments on some of the comments that have come from up here. It was about the fact that we already regulate the investments of pension companies, but today we are only doing so on the basis of one criterion: the economic one. It is, of course, the one-sided focus on the very economic bottom line that is in the process of destroying our planet. Then the member democracy of the individual pension companies has been mentioned. I fully agree that it is there. However, we have seen examples of the fact that members' democracies have just decided that they would like to have a more ethical pension scheme, but then the boards of the pension companies in question have pointed out that the legislation restricts the realisation of the wishes that came from Members. That is what we are trying to change with this motion for a resolution. It is quite true that it may cost to make legislation like this because you will have to step down on fossil energy investments. But that is where we say in the Alternative that Earth calls the climate crisis at its door and that it is the most important and most difficult challenge we are facing right now, and it is not just in Denmark, but also in Europe, yes, throughout the world. It is therefore not realistic to prevent the climate crisis without radical and serious measures now and here. Then the discussion about whether or not we could just ban fossil fuels has emerged. There we are of the opinion that we have not yet come so far that we can ban fossil fuels. They must help us to convert to sustainable energy consumption. That is also why our proposal is that all three bottom lines should be balanced in the future, not only on the economic, but also on the environmental and socially sustainable bottom line. In our approach, the resolution is basically about responsibility and due diligence, even common sense. And I think that, in the past at least, I have heard all the parties from this platform express concern about the climate crisis and for good reason. I think that, in the case of individual speakers, I could hardly hear that there is recognition that we have a climate crisis. But as we see it, it is the biggest and most demanding challenge that we as a society and the world are facing right now. It requires responsible action right now. The world we leave to our children and grandchildren will be the product of the choices we make today. It is therefore a bottom-up task to ensure that the global climate crisis does not turn into an even bigger climate disaster. Science tells us that over and over again. And we have agreed with the rest of the world on the Paris climate agreement last year. That is why we believe that it is timely care to address this issue too and to propose that in future our pension funds should be invested on the basis of both an economic, a social and an environmental bottom line, i.e. all three bottom lines, and not just, as it is today, the economic. We believe that as politicians we should have the courage to take the lead in this commitment. It is we here in the Danish Parliament who are responsible for making the major decisions that lead the way and create the framework for a serious sustainable transformation of society. That is why it is only common sense when the alternative proposes that our pension funds be invested in a way that does not harm people and the environment. That is really just what we are proposing, that is to say, that our pension assets should not be invested in measures that harm people, animals and the environment; that we cannot continue to spend unlimited resources on a planet with limited resources; that instead of pushing the bill on to our children and grandchildren, we should push society in a different and more sustainable direction. Among all the climatologists and researchers in the world, there is a broad consensus that we need ambitious climate objectives, for example. we need to turn up our ambitions if we are to turn down the temperature increases. Denmark's official goal is that we should be independent of fossil fuels by 2050, that at least 30%. the total energy consumption shall consist of renewable energy by 2030 and the temperature increases shall be kept below 2 degrees, which, according to the International Energy Agency, requires two thirds of the known fossil fuels to remain underground. Today, Danish pension companies' investments in the oil, coal and gas industries give rise to a future potential CO2 Thus, Denmark's and the world's progress in climate, including in terms of emissions reductions, is entirely dependent on the fact that pension investments also change course. At the same time, Danish pension companies have seen assets of over 2,000 billion. kr. Thus, the investments made by pension companies have a huge impact on the development of society both at home and abroad. It is therefore of great importance that the investments underpin the social development that is being worked for in the rest of society, and this is to show responsibility. We also know that a great many pension companies want to take that responsibility, and a great many members want to. In several places there is even a majority of Members who would like to do so, but their desire for socially and environmentally more responsible investment is being restricted by the legislation, which is why it does not become a reality, and that simply must not happen. Legislation created in the past must not be an obstacle to the objectives we have set ourselves for the future. Today, pension companies are subject to regulatory requirements, risk-sharing requirements and financial returns on investments. These requirements are perceived by many pension companies as a barrier to phasing out investments in fossil energy and prioritising and investing in climate and energy technology. So consideration of the economic bottom line prevents the social and environmental bottom line from being taken into account, and we think that thinking is a thing of the past. Although the FSA has established that the divestment of black investments and the prioritising of green investments are possible within the existing legislation, it is still the opinion of pension companies that the requirement for maximum return is an obstacle rather than an opening to green investment. In the alternative, we do not believe that the narrow focus of existing legislation on economic returns is in the interests of society. On the contrary, it may run the risk of opposing the social development that we want. At least that's what the industry itself says. In the world we are living in right now, social consideration is not identical to a maximum economic return. Social considerations are about social and environmental sustainability in balance with economic sustainability, and therefore it must not be just an opportunity to take social and environmental sustainability into account; no, it must be a duty. And it must be easier for pension companies to do the right thing. Basically, we must create continuity in our policies. It seems contradictory that we commit ourselves to ambitious climate targets and invest billions in renewable energy with one hand, while with the other hand we uphold legislation that has immediate negative effects on the climate. It simply does not make sense that the law really limits the development that we are doing so much to promote and that we are totally dependent on private investment contributing to. This proposal makes demands on companies' business relations in a completely new way, but it does not restrict pension companies. It really sets them free. This gives them the opportunity not only to focus on the economy as before, but also on social and environmental responsibility, and at the same time it equates these considerations. We do that because we want to go where we can say that we are doing everything we can not to destroy our planet. Because we must follow up the words spoken from the platform and the words signed in international agreements because we have a responsibility to follow up serious words with serious actions. Overall, this proposal will not only remove the obstacles that pension companies are experiencing today as limiting in order to support sustainable social development. It will also have a huge positive effect on the work ahead of Denmark in terms of national and international climate objectives. And it will undoubtedly promote progress towards a society that is economically, socially and environmentally sustainable. Our task here in the Folketing is not to make the easy decisions, our task is to take the responsible decisions, and the responsible decisions are often the difficult ones, but these are also the important decisions. It is our climate decisions now that determine the conditions of life for our children, and I hope that what we will take with us from here today is to exercise due care even if you do not agree with the Alternative. Today it is the case that we are investing in the present and that we are borrowing from the future. We are about to invest in the future. Thank you for the floor and for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428171412	The debate is not quite over yet. Mrs Mette Reissmann has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428171416	Thank you. And thank you for having this debate. I am so little sorry that Mrs Josephine Fock somehow attaches a position to myself and to the other rapporteurs who have criticized the motion for a resolution that we do not recognise that there is a climate crisis. That's not what we're talking about. What we are contesting is that there is a flaw in this resolution and that it is probably more based on thinking and feeling than on facts. When it comes to the facts, and when I again refer to the comments in the motion for a resolution that some pension companies feel caught up in the fact that they cannot invest as they want in green and renewable energy sources, I would just like to ask: how many pension companies in Denmark have specifically stated that the legislation restricts their green investment and what percentage of members of those companies have indicated that they want more green investment?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428171514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428171515	There are specific examples where boards of pension companies have said that they could not comply with the wishes of their members. I don't want to stand here on the platform hanging out the companies, but I'd like to tell you about it afterwards. There have been concrete occupational pensions companies, which I think Mette Reissmann is also aware of. Moreover, it is to encourage pension companies to start more actively than they are doing today to think about investing in both environmental and social sustainability.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428171550	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428171552	I think it is a pity that Mrs Josephine Fock cannot make just the number. I don't care about names right now, and we can talk about it easily afterwards. I'd appreciate it very much, but it's just important to be able to get it out in this Chamber. Is it one company, or is it perhaps someone who once said it a little by accident? How much are we talking about? That is why I think it is a pity that the rest of us, who may want to have some facts on the table, are being hit in the head with the fact that we do not recognise that there is a climate crisis and that, moreover, there are sustainability problems in this world. I can assure you that we are quite familiar with that, and so am I. The alternative is that consideration should go beyond what is permitted by law and by convention. It is already happening that the policies we have been informed of are being taken into account. As I mentioned, among other things. UNPRI and SRI codes, with which CSR operates quite excellently. Then the alternative mentions tax havens, monopoly formation, transfer of indigenous peoples, lack of agreement, etc. In concrete terms, how many companies should pension funds not invest in the resolution before us?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428171700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428171701	Well, I am sorry if Mette Reissmann misunderstood our proposal, because our proposal is that we want to ensure that not only is economic returns taken into account, but that environmental and social returns are also taken into account. This means that the three bottom lines must be balanced. Today it is the case that there should only be balance on the economic bottom line. What I would like to say so much now is that Mette Reissmann has unfortunately not asked me about it, but she has asked other rapporteurs about that is that Denmark's seven largest private pension companies have invested 7.2 billion. kr. 120 of the world's 200 most climate-laden coal, oil and gas companies. So there are some numbers that could signal that we could do better.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428171753	Then it's mr. His Kristian Skibby's turn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428171756	Thank you, sir. President. I would like to ask Mrs Josephine Fock about this with regard to the investment portfolios of the Danish pension companies today. If you have 50 places where you can't invest your money today and you end up having 150 places where you can't invest your capital, then you get less flexibility. I hope the rapporteur will recognise that and you will also have less opportunity to make a sensible risk spread. So I would like to ask the alternative rapporteur: does not the alternative also recognise that if this becomes a reality, it would be less attractive to have your pension funds placed in a place where you have less opportunity to move after development and so on, rather than being tied in in fewer places?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428171850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428171852	No, I do not accept that at all, because what is actually going to happen is that pension companies will help support projects that are sustainable and that will then also provide economic returns. Well, these are the signs we see. We would like to speed up this development. In fact, I could ask a counter question and say: is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party not concerned that if we do not show due diligence, we risk in fact that a very, very large part of the Danish population is losing money in their pension savings because so much of it is invested in fossil energy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428171926	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428171929	I just have to say that we have not taken the same courses. At least I have to say that. For most people actually acknowledge the premise that if you have a smaller number of places where you can invest your money and you get more and more constraints on your capital management, then you also have a smaller degree of self-control over your investments. This, of course, also makes it less possible to operate in an investment market. I think it's common sense to stay in the English.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428171959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428172001	Well again, I would like to say that investments in fossil energy would have to fade out, and thus there will be a greater focus and a greater goal in pension companies to invest in energy-friendly and socially sustainable projects, and that is what we really want to promote with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428172021	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. There are no more brief comments and, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428172044	The negotiations have been opened, and the Minister for Industry and Growth is the first to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428172106	Thank you. The proposers of the Alternative have put forward a proposal with two specific points: (1) a standardised human rights policy is being drawn up for restaurants which are in line with the UN guidelines and which follows the allocation of alcohol appropriations, so that new appropriations and extensions require adherence to such a human rights policy; and (2) an industry-specific complaint body that can work for both guests and restaurants in cases of discrimination in nightlife. In Denmark, as you know, discrimination has already been legislated on, and the government therefore believes that the rules in force are clear and that the remedies are not least sufficient. Legislation on discrimination in relation to this issue is contained in the law on the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of race, etc. Under the Ministry of Justice and in the Law on Ethnic Equality under the Minister of Equal Opportunities. Both of these laws contain a ban on discrimination on grounds of race, ethnic origin, belief, etc. and, according to both laws, you can complain if you experience discrimination. In addition, the Equal Opportunities Act provides for a prohibition for traders against discrimination on grounds of sex. If the resolution were implemented, it would therefore lead to double regulation for businesses. In addition, it is already possible to refuse to grant an alcohol allowance to a restaurateur and to renew the alcohol allowance on account of a ruling on discrimination. Under certain circumstances, an alcoholic authorization may also be dismissed by a court of law. Furthermore, I would not fail to note that I think it is a strange signal to ask a restaurateur to join the human rights policy and thus confirm that the rules that apply specifically to discrimination will be respected. Restaurants, as you know, must also comply with a large number of other rules, for example. prohibition on serving alcohol to minors. A connection to certain rules and not to others therefore sends a very strange signal that some rules are more important than others to comply with. In my world, all rules must be observed. Both the courts and the Equal Treatment Board deal with cases of discrimination. In addition, the Institute for Human Rights, which has been designated as a national equal treatment body in relation to racial and ethnic origin since 2003 as part of Denmark's implementation of the EU Discrimination Directive, also provides assistance to people exposed to discrimination. There is no doubt that it is absolutely essential that discrimination should, of course, be rejected. So does the government. But the government cannot support the motion for a resolution which has been tabled here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428172405	Thank you. And there are no brief remarks. The first rapporteur is Mrs Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428172421	Thank you. I must say that I am also speaking on behalf of the Radical Left and the SF. With B 128, discrimination in nightlife will come to an end, and that is also an important objective, because there are certainly real problems when it comes to nightlife discrimination. As the comments on the proposal quite rightly state, there is nothing good about people being discriminated against because of their skin colour, disability, religion, sexuality or other things. That is why, of course, it calls for action. How, then, can you solve the problem? Yes, that is probably one of the big questions, and if I could answer it simply, we would probably not have had the debate here today. In other words, the problem is not easy to resolve, nor, in my opinion, is there any solution to get rid of all discrimination in nightlife. Nevertheless, it makes good sense to launch initiatives to prevent discrimination in nightlife. And the alternative by this motion for a resolution will require the government to introduce a standardised human rights policy in accordance with the UN Declaration on Human Rights for all establishments with an alcohol licence. Similarly, an industry-specific complaint body must be set up to deal with cases of discrimination in nightlife. These are, of course, good intentions, but at the same time I believe that there are a number of problems associated with the proposal. I am very doubtful as to whether the proposal will have an effect. There is a real danger that such a policy will simply be a forgotten piece of paper hanging on the wall, in other words that it will be more of a name than of benefit. Nor do I see anything in the comments of the proposers which support its real effect. Thus, a compulsory policy will be just a symbolic proposal that will not push anything for those who suffer discrimination. Instead, it will just create a lot of trouble for the hostels across the country that are about to have such a policy, ranging from the city's discotheques to the small pubs that exist all over the country. So there is no real reason for introducing the measure here when there is no further evidence of a beneficial effect. The proposers also want an industry-specific complaint body to deal with night-time discrimination cases and to be a cost-effective complaint mechanism for both companies and guests. Again, I would like to say, with my experience from private and, incidentally, public complaints and appeals boards, that I have my doubts about it and instead say that it is easier said than done. And if legal certainty is to be upheld, it is difficult to imagine how a complaint body can deal with alleged discrimination in a cost-effective way. I have no doubt that a complaint body will be able to deal with many questions of doubt, which automatically reduces efficiency, and that is why I am also afraid that we will be blustering ourselves if we believe that decisions of this kind can be decided simply, quickly and easily if legal certainty is to prevail at the same time. In any case, the proposal, as it has been presented, does not indicate the way in which this can be done. Because of this and because the solution to a human rights policy will be more of a name than of benefit, the Socialists cannot support the proposal. As I said, however, the proposal sets an important agenda for debate, and I would therefore also recommend that we look at some of the many practical experience gained in this area today. What is required is a more fundamental change in culture, which is why many different and simultaneous efforts are needed. The City of Copenhagen has been working for several years to prevent discrimination in e.g. The nightlife. It is obvious to me to address such experiences and see how more can come into play and how that work can be supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428172802	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428172804	Thank you to the rapporteur. In fact, I am very sorry that the rapporteur cannot support this proposal, because in our optics it is really a package that we are serving to the restaurateurs. In other words, we are serving them a package when they apply for funding: they are being made aware of human rights. Does the rapporteur not agree that it is a good idea for the restaurateurs to be made aware, in such a simple way, of the need to respect human rights? Actually, we're taking some work from these guys.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428172841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428172843	Now it is the case that, as we know, ignorance of the law does not normally disqualify for responsibility. So if it's the case that you run a guest house, whether it's the disco Crazy Daisy or whether it's the bodega Brune Bjørn down on the corner, then you have a duty to get involved in the legislation. And the legislation today already contains excellent provisions that discrimination is illegal on the basis of the stated reasons. Should you feel discriminated against, you will always be able to bring a case before the courts in Denmark and have your case tried there under appropriate legal provisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428172916	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428172918	Now it is the case that those who work with it today are of the opinion that there are very many dark figures in it, because there are actually no cases reported to the police. On the other hand, in the context of the project mentioned by the rapporteur, 111 cases have appeared in the City of Copenhagen from October 2014 and a year ahead. After all, it is a great deal, and it is not some people who are being reported to the police. So can the rapporteur not recognise the need for new measures in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428172949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428172950	I think I also said in my speech that there must be different efforts. I just do not think that the proposal put forward by the alternative today will solve it in any way. I believe that constant pressure should be maintained to combat discrimination in nightlife, and this is best done by means of information and by the way, all the excellent measures taken by the City of Copenhagen on this point. I do not believe that the motion for a resolution points in any way towards resolving it. On the contrary, I see that there are more problems that would be raised around the corner if it were the case that we had to legislate on this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428173033	Thank you to Mrs Mette Reissmann. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428173047	I would also like to sign, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, that today we will have the opportunity to discuss human rights here in the Danish Parliament. It is always a good debate to have, no matter what the background is. If you look at discrimination, regardless of whether it is gender, race, religion or one's sexuality, it is of course also important that we, as a society, ensure that the people who are exposed to it improperly have some places to go about their complaints and that they can be dealt with either in the courts or in some of the places where you can complain, for example. at the Institute for Human Rights. Moreover, according to the comments made by the Alternative on this motion for a resolution, there is also the United Nations guidelines on human rights and occupation. Against this background, we in the Danish People's Party believe that, in this way, there are already excellent opportunities to have these cases raised if you feel that you are being unduly treated. We think it would be an unnecessary administrative burden for us now, if this were to happen, to have to ask all the Danish pubs and restaurants, etc. on hanging a fine diploma in glass and a frame at the back of the counter, which says that a standardised human rights policy has been adopted. I also think that in many places you will take it with a rather big glimpse in your eye, if I am to be completely honest. I know at least and now I don't have much experience with the pub environment in person that we then have a few taverns where I come from, and restaurants, but that is far, by far, in most places not the very big agenda or a problem that requires such a big agenda as this resolution makes. I recognise that in some of our big cities there have been some challenges here in Copenhagen, as Mrs Josephine Fock also mentioned, and of course these things must also be dealt with. Nor do I and the Danish People's Party object to going in and looking at it when giving alcohol and re-awards in the local municipal grant boards, but we do not believe that this is something that we in the Danish Parliament should start to legislate further on. The proposal is well-intentioned, I do not doubt it, but it is not necessary in our optics. It is simply a superfluous motion for a resolution which has been tabled and therefore we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428173306	Thank you. There is just one brief comment, and it is from Mrs Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428173310	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is the rapporteur not of the opinion that it is a problem when there are so few reports to the police and that 111 cases have been brought in in connection with this Copenhagen project? And I can say that the number of reports to the police from 1 January 2014 to June 2015 was only 30. So there have been 30 reviews to the police, which is 30 too many, you might say, but then there have also been 111 reviews in connection with the Copenhagen project from 1 January 2014 and a year ahead. So that suggests that things are not going well enough, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428173352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428173354	Yes, I accept that, but I just find it hard to see what a diploma on the wall could do about it. Then the motion for a resolution also refers to the need for a sector-specific complaint body, which sounds very harmless in itself. But when it comes to the complaints that will come, it will typically be quite challenged by the fact that those who are involved in it will of course have different views on what has actually happened, and that is typically in an environment where you have loud music and where people have also suffered too much in the shirt. So it will be some very exciting cases that will come, and there will also be an administrative burden in terms of enforcing this part of it, and therefore it is not something that should be a matter of parliament. I recognise the premise that there may be challenges in the major cities such as Aarhus and Aalborg and also in Copenhagen, to which the rapporteur himself refers, but this must therefore be a task that is being solved in the municipality itself, for example. City of Copenhagen. After all, you have an excellent licensing board which looks at these matters and which, of course, has to take care of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428173452	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428173454	Does the rapporteur not seriously believe that it is a matter for Parliament to ensure that there is no discrimination in our nightlife?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428173504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428173506	I believe, in any case, that we fully endorse what is stated in the comments made in the motion for a resolution by Mrs Josephine Fock's own party, which says: 'There are already two instruments which provide a solution to the problem of discrimination in nightlife. Firstly, human rights, which include, inter alia, the right to non-discrimination, and, secondly, the UN guidelines on human rights and professions, which lay down obligations. In fact, I think it is quite clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428173535	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Gundelach. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428173546	Thank you for the floor. I can of course say, like the previous rapporteurs, that this is an important issue that the Alternative puts on the agenda to combat discrimination in nightlife, because I think that we are all very, very much in agreement on that is important. Because discrimination is by no means in order. It is quite unreasonable that we should see cases in which perhaps young people with ethnic backgrounds other than Danish are rejected at the door of a discotheque or bar alone because of their skin colour, and that is of course also illegal. The alternative proposal deals with this issue, and it is of course important to discuss it. In concrete terms, however, the proposal states that a standardised human rights policy must be drawn up for the restoration of human rights, which follows the UN guidelines, and one can say that basically seems sympathetic. But there is already legislation on discrimination, and of course there is legislation on discrimination. There are already complaints bodies to which one can turn if one considers that one has been discriminated against, and one can of course also raise matters with the police, and that is also the case, as the Minister has also explained, that a restaurant can be deprived of its alcohol allowance or denied a renewal if the restoration is condemned for discrimination. So, on the surface, this is a sympathetic proposal on an important subject, but I have to say that I do not share the view expressed by the Socialist rapporteur, so that perhaps there is a little too much symbolic policy about it. Because I do not think it is useful to give the restaurateurs another set of rules on top of what is already in place, and especially not in a way where the same things are being struck down. Discrimination is wrong, it is unfair and it is forbidden, and so it is now, and so it must remain, and I do not think the solution is that we are making more rules with the same content, but with a different wording, or hanging up nice signs, because that requires a completely different effort. But the solution is not the proposal put forward by the Alternative here, and on that basis I can inform you that this is not the great surprise that the Left cannot support the proposal, and I have promised to say that the same applies to the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428173803	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428173808	Almost a little while ago there was a case about Bella Sky, where they had made a episode that was only for women. It was illegal, it was thought to be discrimination based on gender. Does the Left think it was fair that it became known illegally?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428173834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428173835	I'd say I thought it was a strange case. At least none of me went as a man, knowing that there was such an offer. I also believe that this case has been the occasion for looking at some of the guidelines without being sharp on it. I also find it a little difficult to see that it is an essential theme that one should put a board to look at that there is a difference in what it costs to get a haircut from a hairdresser, depending on whether one is a man or a woman. I have to say that I therefore believe that we have quite different discussions on discrimination, which are far, far more important and which really matter where it has to be said in some areas that gender equality leaves much to be desired. We are currently discussing whether to do gender-separated swimming. I would say to Bella Sky that I hope that the people who are dealing with these matters will find something more important to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428173940	Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428173945	This is, in part, also a property issue. When, for example, you're gonna have to do something about it. If you have a restaurant that you have invested in, what should you actually be allowed to decide for yourself, in relation to who you let into your private property? Is there not a dilemma here which must be acknowledged? Now I mentioned Bella Sky, most people think it's silly, but you could run this whole thing out. There will be, for example: Some could also claim to be discrimination, etc. But my point is that there must also be some room for private people to say: we have an offer that does not apply to all people, and we will be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428174032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428174034	Again, I must say that I do not feel that as a man I am being offended by the fact that there is a woman's race, I must say. It is fair enough that you set objective criteria in relation to demanding what clothes you should wear, i.e. that you cannot wear shorts and a Hawaiian shirt to go into a restaurant. It's okay. But, to me, it will never be acceptable if you can make some demands on the basis of people's skin color, and that is unfortunately what we have seen in some places. That is why it is important that we get the debate to deal with the real discrimination in which people are discriminated against on the basis of their skin colour, because I think that is completely unfair.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428174120	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428174124	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am very pleased that the rapporteur recognises that there should be no discrimination and that, of course, we are also obliged to do so in relation to the UN guidelines. What we are trying to do with this proposal is, in fact, to make it very simple for companies to be made aware that they must now be obsessed that they must not discriminate. And I would really like to hear the rapporteur's explanation as to why the rapporteur cannot support what is, in fact, a simplification in relation to companies, and which means that when they apply for an authorisation for alcohol, they must also sign that they are in favour of respecting human rights and thus being made aware of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428174208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428174211	I have to say that no matter what you sign, you have to abide by Danish law when you do business. And then, in the opinion of the Alternative, there are rules and intentions that are more important than others. I have to say that I do not think the world will be simpler on that or that it will be seen as a relief for businesses. One can say that if this is going to go further, I don't know what kind of permission one could imagine the alternative one would have to sign in order to be good to one thing or the other. I have to say that this is an area where the rules on what is legal and not legal are quite clear. There are complaints boards that are able to go to the police in criminal matters, and then I do not think it is an extra statement that will make the big difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428174305	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428174307	Thank you. Well, we've also suggested this sector-specific complaint body, and you could say that's something we're copying. Because we can see from, for example. The consumer Ombudsman said that it was okay to put in an additional complaint body. The reason why we are doing this is because those involved, Eyes in the night, the project Stop Had, the International Jurist Commission and GLOBAL CSR, recommend that we have to take action in relation to discrimination in the nightlife because it simply happens too much. What does the Left intend to do to remedy these situations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428174343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428174345	After all, there is already a complaint body to which you can contact. And that a subdivision of it should be created for a particular part of the problem, I therefore think is a misguided approach to it. The key point is that you have the opportunity to approach and correct a complaint, and that, of course, must be the case. I do not think that the problem is solved by the fact that there is an extra place to go. The problem is solved by the fact that there is an understanding that people should be treated properly and not discriminate against people on the basis of their skin color, religion, any disability or other things. That must, in fact, be what is crucial: that people understand that we have to treat each other properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428174427	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and, before proceeding in the rapporteur's line, the former rapporteur, Mrs Mette Reissmann, has asked me to inform you that she did not speak on behalf of the SF anyway. Then it should have been put in place. We move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next one is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428174446	Thank you, or rather thank you to the President; I am sorry. Thanks to the alternative for raising this important debate. Unfortunately, this is a widespread problem that we are discussing today. I believe that most of us have known people who have different skin colors from those of the present rapporteur and who have experienced discrimination in nightlife. In fact, I believe that there are very few people with a different skin color who have not experienced forms of discrimination if they have moved around in the nightlife. It is true that there is already a rule of law and access to justice and sanctions, but at the same time we must note that they have not yet solved this problem, at least, and that is why I think it is very, very relevant to discuss which new handles we can turn on. I am also slightly in doubt about the tool proposed by the Alternative and whether that is what is needed or whether it would be better to tighten up the current rules, improve the scope for sanctions, improve the remedies available within the framework currently in place. I also have some doubts about the human rights approach to it, because human rights include a great many things. There are also a number of other issues which, in that case, should also be regulated and where we should then have these sanctions. The same applies to the question of industry-specific Boards of Appeal. Now there is such a succinct justification for the draft law. I certainly need a more thorough discussion of this. Has it been implemented in other countries? I am in favour of discussing it, but I would suggest that we ask the Minister, at committee reading, to explain the rules as they are today, and possibly also the rules in our neighbouring countries, and then take them from there and see if there are new things we can do about this very serious problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428174710	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428174734	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance cannot support this resolution. We believe that it is unnecessary bureaucracy for this resolution to be adopted. As several have already mentioned, there is legislation in this area, and we think it is good enough. Then it has to be said that reality is often very complex, and I personally think it seems to everyone that it is deeply, deeply unsympathetic if people are rejected on a restaurant because of their skin color or sexuality. Now I happen to know different people who have restaurants and bars, and in the real world it is so that you can experience unfortunate episodes in the nightlife, for example. where there is violence and where there are people who create an insecure atmosphere in a tavern. You can experience this repeatedly, and if you experience that it is a particular group with a certain ethnicity that causes trouble, you may feel that you have to take precautions to protect your customers, and this may result in some being rejected because of their skin color. It is illegal when it is innocent people and it is extremely problematic, but my point is that I think that much of it could really be remedied by the fact that there were more police in the nightlife who could make sure that we had less violence, because the truth is, of course, and we know that there is an over-representation of violence among some groups in society, such as the United Kingdom. immigrants from third countries. We know that. Out in the real world, where you face the problems and have to protect very specific people, you can take decisions that go beyond the innocent, and that is deeply regrettable. In reality, however, I believe that much of this could be solved by a completely different approach to it, namely by ensuring from here that there was proper police action that reduced the violence in nightlife. I think that would be the proper approach. But we think that the legislation that is now in place is fine and we see no reason to change it, as this resolution will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428175043	Thank you. There is one brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428175048	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. I mean, it's not really about people who commit violence. This is a proposal which seeks to discriminate against people by, for example, discrimination against them. is not allowed in because of a different skin color, that is, where there is nothing about these people being particularly violent. So I find it difficult to understand the rapporteur's arguments. Can the rapporteur not elaborate on what is involved in this argument?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428175113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428175115	Like I said, this is complex. If some people, for example, do not... If they have a bar or a restaurant where they repeatedly find that it is a group of people with a certain ethnicity who are causing problems and who may even engage in violence, then you can blame that company, for example. the bouncer in the company that they become more reluctant to let a particular group in? I would like to stress that it is really regrettable that, on the basis of their ethnicity, there are people who are being excluded from going into, for example, the matter. a bar, that is, people who have no intention of committing violence that is peaceful people. Therefore, what I am saying is that I believe that the solution to this problem is to greatly reduce the violence in the nightlife. And the truth is that we know that certain groups, statistically speaking, pose an increased risk of committing this violence. Some of the victims are those who are innocent, but who may be denied access to a particular restaurant. But this is a debate we have in many areas. We also have it in connection with aircraft safety and other areas where we can only statistically see that it is people with a certain ethnicity who, for some very different reasons than their race, are going to commit a greater risk, for example. terrorism. And should they be targeted? It's an eternal discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428175251	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428175253	Thank you. I hope the rapporteur agrees that because there are some in a particular group who have committed violence, we should not reject others who have the same ethnicity, for fear that they may commit violence. In other words, the rapporteur agrees that we must not discriminate in Denmark. It's a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428175318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428175320	What I'm trying to explain is that reality is very complex. And out there in the real world, where there are some people who have to make decisions that may have an impact on the safety of other people, this is a difficult question. I say it is illegal to discriminate on the basis of race. I do not think it is as widespread a problem as is being proposed here, but when that happens it may be due to other things. This is often not due to an intention to discriminate on the basis of race, but it can, for example, be done. come from the fact that you have some experiences with certain people who practice violence and create insecurity for others. And it can then be expressed by that one • I don't know what to call it • being overcautious. But the solution to this, I say I come with a solution... is that we get more police in the nightlife, which can make it more safe. I think that's the best way to solve this problem, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428175422	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. I do not see any rapporteur from the SF, so we go to the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428175449	Thank you. And I thank you for the debate and thank you to the Enhedslisten. I am, of course, quite open to the fact that we are putting forward a more thorough discussion in committee. And I think it is very interesting to ask the Minister about the rules, because I understand that the Minister refers to the Committee on Gender Equality, which deals only with labour market complaints. Therefore, I think this is a way to try to create a focused approach to how to eliminate discrimination in nightlife. I think it is important to say that I think, of course, that the Copenhagen project that is under way is very good. They have made such an app where you can report cases, and there have been 111 cases from October 2014 to October 2015; and so it is here in the Copenhagen area. And from January 1, 2014 to June 30, 2015, there were 19 reports to the police. So this suggests that there is a really big dark figure, plus that we should also be aware that the project I am referring to concerns only the City of Copenhagen and therefore does not apply to the rest of the country. And, of course, what we imagine with our motion for a resolution is that it should apply to the whole country. Our proposal is inspired by Eyes in the night, which is an initiative under the project Stop Had. It is also an initiative of the International Jurist Commission and of the GLOBAL CSR calling for something to be done in this area. And that is a call that the alternative has taken on board, and that is why we call on the government to introduce rules on discrimination in nightlife. Our proposal is to draw up a general human rights policy which follows the alcohol allocation and which will help companies to shoulder their human rights responsibilities and raise awareness of discrimination in nightlife. We see it as a completely unbureaucratic way of making companies aware that they have this obligation. It is true, as has been said, that companies must, of course, comply with the legislation. Yes, but I find it difficult to see why we cannot make an action that in reality makes it easier for companies to be made aware that they have a special obligation that is about not discriminated against people. In addition, we also propose the introduction of an industry-specific complaint body to comply with UN guidelines on effective redress and to ensure a cost-effective complaint mechanism for both companies and guests. And the idea here is, of course, to try to increase the focus on discrimination and to ensure that we actually get those reviews, because, as Parliament, we have an interest in the absence of discrimination in our society. Any action which has as its object or effect the exclusion of some or restricting the participation of people in society by reason, for example, of: race, skin color, disability, religion, political opinion or sexual orientation, is discrimination and is something that I think we in the Folketing must have a common experience of doing as much as possible to combat. That is what we are trying to do with this proposal; it is to fight discrimination actively on all fronts. And we want to use as many tools as possible. If citizens repeatedly experience being judged out because of skin color, religion, sexuality or disability, it can lead to a sense of neglect and alienation from the rest of society. And the feeling of not belonging is poison for the individual citizen as well as for our society as a whole. And that is what this proposal should help: that as few citizens as possible experience the feeling of being outside. It is an area that has already been legislated on it is completely correct and initiatives have been taken, for example. of the Municipality of Copenhagen. Nevertheless, discrimination in nightlife remains a problem, and we therefore believe that further action should be taken to change the poor culture we know there exists. Human rights include the right to non-discrimination, and the UN guidelines on human rights and business define obligations for both states and companies in order to ensure that every enterprise respects human rights at an operational level. And our proposal is precisely to operationalise it here and to ensure that the fundamental rights of citizens are respected at a level of street level, if that is the case. I look forward to the committee reading. I can see that there is no majority in favour of the proposal. Of course, I hear a backup from up here... I'm glad we don't have any discrimination in nightlife. I am sorry that there is no majority in favour of the proposal, but I look forward to the committee reading where we can clarify exactly what is being done today to ensure that there is no discrimination. Then I should like to welcome the SF and say that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428180006	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and that is from Mrs Mette Reissmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428180011	Thank you. Mrs Josephine Fock mentioned earlier when she asked Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, I think it was the Consumer Complaints Board. And in this context, I would like to hear how Mrs Josephine Fock imagines that the proceedings should take place in the Appeals Board for Discrimination when complaints come in.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428180035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428180037	Well, we have deliberately chosen not to take a specific position on that. In other words, if there is a majority in favour of this proposal, we have to create a complaints body that works in an appropriate way and as unbureaucratic as possible. In our optics, it's for what to say to make it easier to complain and ensure that there's a sufficient focus on these complaints because they drown a lot. What we hear from the people and the organisations who have called for us to try to work on this is that they are drowning, and also that there are apparently large numbers of darkness. This can also be seen from the project initiated by the City of Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428180124	Mrs. Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428180127	With what share does Mrs Josephine Fock believe that the dark figure that exists will fall if such a Board of Appeal is set up?
ParlaMint-DK_20160428180140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428180142	I can't tell you that. I can say that we can see from the Copenhagen project that there is at least the difference between 19 reports to the police and 111 reviews, you can say in goose eyes, because they are not reviews, but press through an app. But it is only in Copenhagen, and it is only in Copenhagen that this project applies. What we are proposing applies at national level. So I don't have enough figures to document what the dark could be. I can just say that at least there are signs that there is a great dark number. That is what the groups concerned say.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428180219	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160428180238	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 29 April 2016, at 10:00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
