ParlaMint-DK_20161116130009	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Defence (Peter Christensen): Bill no. L 83 (Proposal for a Law amending the Emergency Response Act. Tax Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill No. L 84 (Proposal for a law amending the Law of Greenland on certain games. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 24 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on Danish accession to the enhanced cooperation in the EU on a tax on financial transactions). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20161116130048	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 17 November 2016. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten, for a reason. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116130137	The situation in Turkey is totally unacceptable. Recently, journalists from the last non-government-controlled newspaper, Cumhuriyet, have been imprisoned. The same is true of democratically elected mayors and ten parliamentarians from the country's third largest party, the left-wing and pro-Curdian party HDP. Among the ten imprisoned parliamentarians are both the male and female president of HDP, Selahattin Demirtas and Figen Yüksekdag. Demirtas • the male president remembers many of you probably from his visit to Parliament. HDP parliamentarians and journalists' only crime is that they have used their freedom of expression to speak against the current government and President Erdogan. All charges against them are for using their freedom of expression. The HDP has fought hard for democratic development in Turkey, for a peaceful solution to the Kurdish question and for respect for the country's minorities, for equality, women's liberation and LGBT rights. Now the HDP Parliamentarians are in the dock and many of them are already in prison. Unfortunately, the imprisonment of MEPs is the culmination of a massive wave of abuse. Tens of thousands of judges, journalists, teachers, professional activists, civil servants and lawyers are currently in prison. Last Friday 370 civil society organisations were shut down, including women's and children's rights organisations. This repression is clearly contrary to Turkey's international obligations. Turkey, with its membership of the Council of Europe, has undertaken to comply with the international and European Convention on Human Rights, and that clearly does not happen. That is why today's debate is so important.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116130347	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Then it's the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116130359	Thank you for that opportunity to discuss again recent developments in Turkey, which are undoubtedly very worrying. The night to 4 November, the two HDP presidents Selahattin Demirtas and Figen Yüksekdag were detained together with 10 other HDP MPs. Subsequently, most of these, including the two Presidents, have been in custody. Turkish police also broke into HDP headquarters in Ankara, and access to social media such as Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp was also closed, allegedly to prevent the organisation of protests along that path. The arrests follow the temporary constitutional amendment adopted by the Turkish Parliament in May 2016. It collectively waives the parliamentary immunity of Members of Parliament with pending charges against them. This was a matter which we discussed in this Chamber with urgent question F 42 before the summer holidays. MEPs from the HDP indicated in the period following the waiver of immunity that they would not voluntarily be interrogated. Thus, the Turkish authorities rely on the fact that the arrests were an inevitable consequence of the relevant authorities' duty to pursue the pending legal proceedings. At the same time, as suggested by the proposers, cases have also been brought against the editor-in-chief and a number of journalists in the newspaper Hürriyet, which is considered to be the only remaining major independent opposition newspaper in Turkey. Initially, a total of 13 leaders and journalists were allegedly detained on the basis of suspicions of the practice of crime on behalf of the Gülen movement and the PKK. The editor-in-chief and some journalists have now been released with restrictions, while others, I know, are still being detained. These are measures by the Turkish Government which are of great concern to us both in Denmark and in many other European countries, which cannot be seen in isolation, but which are on top of the developments that were already worrying. Some of this was related to the state of emergency in Turkey after the failure of the June coup, and the other is of an even older date. Turkey reserves itself here and, like any other country, has the right to fight terrorism, which it has undoubtedly been severely affected by terrorist attacks by both the PKK and other militant Kurdish groups as well as by ISIL. You have to remember that context. It is also clear that the Turkish Government, the parliamentary majority and the general public want to make a thorough break with the coups and their accomplices. Turkey has the right to do so too. However, it is equally clear that every dispute must be settled in accordance with the general principles of the rule of law and in full respect for basic freedoms and human rights in general, and there has been an increasing need to question it. Therefore, on the same day as the recent arrests were carried out, on 4 November, I decided to call Turkey's ambassador in Denmark for a conversation with one of my directors in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to make the Danish position quite clear. It is one of the very strong bilateral tools that is in the diplomatic toolbox to call an ambassador for interview. Of course, when I was in Ankara at the end of September, I also used the opportunity to raise similar issues, albeit before the last arrests. In general, however, it is the view of the government through the EU that Denmark best raises that view in cooperation, not least in relation to a large EU neighborhood that Turkey is, even though it may sometimes look very difficult. There was therefore clear Danish support for the EU to make a statement on Monday 7 November on behalf of the EU as a whole, in addition to the Foreign Representative and the EU Enlargement Commissioner's sharp statement on Friday. also on behalf of the Member States. Among other things, Heri states that recent measures weaken the rule of law, respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and parliamentary democracy in Turkey, and create further tensions in south-east Turkey and a general polarisation of Turkish society. Similarly, I supported the fact that the situation in Turkey had to be put on the agenda of the EU Foreign Minister's meeting that we held on Monday. At the meeting, on behalf of Denmark, I clearly expressed Denmark's expectation that the EU will follow up on these matters. Fortunately, the Foreign Representative agrees with this, just as it is an approach that enjoys broad support among the Member States. The European Union is keeping a close eye on developments in Turkey. Every year, the Commission publishes a package of comprehensive reports for the countries with which the EU negotiates enlargement or which are potential candidate countries. The 2016 report was published last week. The European Union makes the highest demands on the Member States in relation to the rule of law, human rights, freedom of expression, freedom of the media and an independent legal system. Therefore, these conditions also form a very central part of the report's content, and we actively support this from the Danish side. This year's report for Turkey emphasises that the rule of law, human rights and fundamental rights must be respected in all circumstances. It points to retrograde steps in relation to the lack of independence in the judicial system and serious backward steps in terms of freedom of expression. We fully support this assessment from the Danish side, both in Brussels and Ankara. It is also emphasised that the follow-up to the attempted coup ensures legal certainty, evidence, transparent procedures and an independent judicial system with full respect for fundamental rights. I expect there to be clear criticism of Turkey in those areas when we come to the Council of Ministers in December with Council conclusions on the reports. Denmark will actively support this. Particularly since the attempted coup, the Council of Europe has been actively involved in dialogue with the Turkish authorities. The main focus is on the implementation of the state of emergency and the judicial system following the attempted coup in accordance with the Convention on Human Rights, the rule of law and Turkey's international obligations. The dialogue shall be conducted at the highest political level indicated by the Secretary-General and the Commissioner for Human Rights, as well as at a more technical level, such as: concerning the decree laws issued under the state of emergency. The Secretary-General was the first prominent international player to visit Turkey after the coup attempt. The other day he visited Ankara again, where he had talks with leading representatives of the government as well as a long meeting with President Erdogan, another meeting with the President of the Constitutional Court and leading opposition politicians. The Secretary-General is extremely critical of recent repressive measures against media and opposition politicians and questioned the proportionality of serious interventions. In general, however, the Secretary-General is satisfied with the Council of Europe's dialogue with the Turkish authorities. This is also true after his recent visit, in which he insisted that Turkey should deliver concrete results, and has pointed out six specific points in particular in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights. Without such progress, it will be difficult for him to continue the dialogue on behalf of the Member States of the Council of Europe. Denmark fully supports the work of the Council of Europe in this regard. Under the auspices of the OSCE, the relevant commitments come primarily from the 1990 Copenhagen document, which is the OSCE's basic document on human rights and the rule of law. Denmark actively supports joint EU opinions on developments in Turkey and has on several occasions been among the promoters. Since spring, the EU has brought the situation in Turkey up seven times in the OSCE. Most recently, Denmark supported a joint EU contribution to the OSCE Permanent Council on 11 November on precisely the arrest of parliamentarians from HDP and the journalists from Cumhuriyet. In this context, the EU stressed the need for Turkey to respect the rule of law, fundamental freedoms and parliamentary democracy in Turkey. Denmark will continue to actively support the EU's close monitoring of developments in Turkey through the OSCE and will maintain pressure on Turkey. Denmark also actively supports work on an OSCE decision to strengthen OSCE commitments on freedom of expression. The negotiations create, among other things, a framework for cooperation between the European Union and the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. renewed attention to both the challenges and the responsibilities of the Member States in this area. In addition, Denmark can support the OSCE's independent institutions, including: the media freedom representative in following developments in Turkey, indictment of abuses and assist Turkey in complying with and implementing its OSCE commitments and other international standards. Denmark will use the OSCE Ministerial Council in Hamburg on 8 and 9 December to highlight the importance of respect for fundamental freedoms and the rule of law to which all OSCE countries have committed themselves. That is why I thank you for the question and look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116131354	Thank you, Minister. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116131411	Last week I visited Diyarbakir. It is the Kurdish main city in Turkey. Here, the city's 1.7 million inhabitants have been deprived of their elected mayor. Both the male and the female mayor are forcibly removed and imprisoned. The city is now headed by a government-appointed administrator, whom none of the city's citizens have chosen. I met two elected parliamentarians from HDP in town. One, ethnic Turk, had just come out of prison after several days of unjustified arrest. The second, ethnic Kurd and Yazidi, had been beaten yellow and blue by Turkey's police when she had protested peacefully against the imprisonment of the city's mayors. From both parliamentarians the message to the Danish Parliament was clear: put action behind your concern. If you do not act now, the imprisonment and repression will continue. If you do not act now, the next wave of imprisonment will begin. Overall, 3.3 million citizens of the Kurdish cities in eastern Turkey are currently deprived of their democratically elected mayors. They have been forcibly removed and many have been imprisoned. I met one of these mayors. Her name was Gülistan Akel. She explained how the equality initiatives she had launched during her term as mayor were the first that the new administrator had removed. Women's crisis centres had been closed and the names of the women who had made claims for wife violence had been published by the administrator. In this way Erdogan's authoritarian, stick-conservative and Islamist ideology is enforced by force in Kurdish cities that have never elected the government party AKP. At the last election, the HDP became Turkey's third largest party with over 5 million voters. These voters have now been taken hostage by Turkish President Erdogan. The only crime your parliamentarians have is to use their freedom of expression. Their crimes are demanding democracy. Your crime is to demand a peaceful solution to the Kurdish question. HDP was among the first to denounce the attempted coup in June. The violent assaults that are currently taking place are not about the attempted coup against Erdogan. What is happening right now is a coup by the Turkish President against democracy, and we should not accept this coup either. Turkey is a member of the Council of Europe and has undertaken to comply with the European Convention on Human Rights. Turkey is a member of NATO, Turkey is a candidate country for the European Union and, in other words, we have an obligation to respond, a duty to refrain when Erdogan runs from its agreements and obligations. And it is important to emphasise that Denmark and Europe are not powerless to develop. We have the opportunity to act. For the Enhedslisten, it is crucial that we do not content ourselves with concerns, but that we criticise the imprisonment of the Turkish democratic opposition. For the Enhedslisten, it is essential that we instruct the government to work towards the release of MEPs and journalists, both bilaterally and in international fora. For the Enhedslisten, it simply does not make sense to negotiate accession to the EU with a Turkish government that imprisons its democratically elected opposition and government-critical journalists. That is why we believe that EU accession negotiations should be suspended until democratic rights are restored. I hope that in today's debate we can get support for these concrete initiatives. On the basis of this and on behalf of the Enhedslisten, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament criticises the arrests in Turkey by, among others. parliamentarians from HDP and journalists from the independent newspaper Cumhuriyet and, referring to V 28 and V 75 from 2016, call on the government to work for their release as well as for the suspension of EU accession negotiations until democratic rights in the country are guaranteed. • V10. • V10. • V10. •
ParlaMint-DK_20161116131852	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's sir. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116131858	Thank you. In the parliamentary elections held in June last year, the HDP, as the first pro-Curdician party, ever managed to overcome the high threshold of 10% in Turkey and thus have a place in the Turkish Parliament. On 15 July of this year there was the failed coup attempt, which Erdogan, moreover, called a gift from God and subsequently declared martial law and brought about the cleansing of those whom he believes were behind the coup. This has led to a situation in Turkey where over 100,000 public servants are suspended, 186 media are closed, 140 journalists are behind bars, and 3,640 judges and prosecutors have allegedly been fired. And last week, as was also mentioned on the platform just before, two Procurdic mayors and 12 leading figures, including the editor-in-chief from the very last critical newspaper, Cumhuriyet, were arrested. The purges also include all those who are close to HDP, which one may wonder about, at a time when it is not the case that the Kurds are suspected of being involved in the attempted coup. The basis for doing so is that HDP is accused of being associated with and promoting the interests of the militant Turkish group of the PKK. As was also mentioned, 12 pro-Curdian parliamentarians, including the leaders of the HDP, were arrested last week, and it is a matter of history that, shortly before the attempted coup, a majority of MEPs voted in favour of a resolution which lifted the legal immunity of HDP members; a resolution which, moreover, with the adoption of the V 75, the Folketing rejected and called on the government to pursue Turkey. According to HDP, 5,000 people associated with the party have been detained since the June elections, many of them for accusations of association with the PKK. Of the 5,000, 1,000 have been formally charged. The situation is picking up that democracy and human rights are being trampled underfoot in Turkey. The way in which Erdogan behaves in reality makes the Kurdish minority unwelcome, not just in parliament, but in ordinary democratic life, in ordinary civil life in Turkey. The way in which Erdogan acts makes it even more hopeless that Turkey can put away instability and tensions and weapons use and war and live in peace and harmony. It is therefore necessary and relevant for the Folketing to distance itself from what is happening in Turkey and to criticise what is happening in Turkey, which is why it is good that this is happening today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116132206	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116132210	Thank you so much. And thank you, sir. Nick Hækkerup for the clear criticism in relation to the problems that are in Turkey. I fully agree with that, just as I agree with the need for a resumption of the peace process so that a peaceful solution can be found to the Kurdish question. When I have signed up to speak, it is just to hear whether the Social Democrats really believe that it makes sense to continue EU accession negotiations at a time when we are seeing the democratic opposition imprisoned. Would it not make sense to suspend the negotiations until democratic rights are guaranteed?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116132249	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116132251	But it is basically a question of how we go to countries and govern with which we disagree. In our view, it is more important to maintain a dialogue and more important to maintain a criticism than to push them out and shame them out with which we disagree. After all, there is no prospect of Turkey becoming a member of the European Union, as we all know in this Chamber. With the repression of the rule of law, of freedoms, of freedom of the media, etc., which is one of the things that must be fulfilled in order to become a member of the European Union, Turkey is not moving into the European Union, but is moving away from the European Union. But it is precisely the negotiations that have the criticism and the dialogue that are one of the opportunities to push forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116132341	Thank you. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116132342	I fully agree that it is important to push, but the problem is that these negotiations have been going on for a long time and that developments are going the wrong way. In other words, we in Denmark and Europe have actually chosen to cooperate very, very closely with Turkey; we have a customs union; we have financial support for the Turkish Government; and now we are in a situation where it is going in the wrong direction. Should it not then be appropriate not to continue with the carrot, but to switch to a whip and thus to a suspension of the negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116132417	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116132419	But that really depends on what one considers to be the most appropriate means, and I think it is a good way of continuing to raise the criticism of Turkey, continuing to find forums to have the critical dialogue in which to keep pushing as well as we can. And it is not a question of finding out who can shout the loudest in this Chamber, so I think it is a little too bad that we cannot all gather together for a proposal for adoption, because I think it would be all the stronger. And I wonder if the Enhedslisten will vote tomorrow for the proposal for adoption as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116132459	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116132504	I just want to go along with it, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen asked as a question, asking the rapporteur: if it were imagined that it was today, in other words right now, that the EU should decide whether to open accession negotiations with Turkey, how would it have been?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116132524	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116132526	It's hard to answer, since it's counter-current. I just think that there is reason to see the consensus that we can probably also unite on about the fact that, as Turkey behaves at the moment, it brings them not closer to the European Union but further away from the European Union and that the breaches of human rights, freedoms and the general rule of law are subject to all criticism. I also think it is worth noting that some of those who have been there and voiced this criticism are precisely the European Union, just as I think it is relevant when it happens under the auspices of the Council of Europe or the OSCE. So, I think it is appropriate to do so all those places where we can push and where the international community can find ways to criticise what is going on in Turkey.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116132611	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116132626	Thank you. It has been four months since the military in Turkey tried to take over power and, as you know, the coup failed. This contrasts with the former military coup of modern Turkey, which took place in 1960, 1971 and 1980. But why is the Turkish defence acting as it does? In order to explain this, we must look at what modern Turkey is, which began at the end of World War I, and which in 1923 brought Kemal Atatürk to power. He took over a country that had nothing to offer and where only 8%. of the population could read and write. A country where the dumb sharia law ruled. Atatürk looked at the United States and Europe with the aim of turning Turkey into a modern, Western and secular industrial society. Within five years, dramatic changes had already taken place. The Sharia courts had been abolished, the Imams' power was gone, the judicial system was introduced according to Western European custom, the system of meters was introduced, the Gregorian calendar was introduced, the Arab alphabet was replaced by the Latin, so that young Turks could more easily study at Western universities. Everywhere was taught according to Western standards, the working culture had changed, and so were attitudes and lifestyles. Women happily threw the oppressive scarves in the trash, and after 15 years it was not just 8 per cent. who could read and write, but 30%. Atatürk died in 1938 but his legacy was that Turkey had to remain a modern, secular country and that Islamism could not regain power again. He committed the military to this legacy. Turkey's defence troops were appointed to be the very guarantor of the fact that the religious regime, and thus the stupidity, did not get a foothold again. Therefore the army took power in 1960, 1971 and 1980 and therefore the army tried to take power in July. Here it should be mentioned that Western world leaders were extremely quiet for the first many hours while the attempted coup was waged. Only when it was quite clear that Erdogan had succeeded in striking it down did everyone quickly declare themselves appalled by the action of the generals. But I wonder if it had not really looked after the West quite well if this coup, number four, had succeeded. We'll never get an answer to that. Today all the leaders of the West are once again appalled, but now we are appalled by Erdogan and his behaviour, which has been so well depicted in this Chamber today. But I have to ask the Foreign Minister: what had been expected of Erdogan after those days in July? Why does it suddenly come as a huge surprise that an Islamist politician is pursuing Islamist politics? And why was it so important for the Danish government to send congratulations to the Islamist Erdogan on the occasion of a secular coup? We still have the benefit of finding out how the military coup was prepared, who was the leading force, and how Erdogan succeeded so quickly and effectively in knocking down the coup and which people he might have installed in advance among the coups. I have a strong feeling that we'll probably never get that story, since it's always the winners who write the story. It is essential for Denmark to send the message to Erdogan that a European future is no longer an option, and I am therefore required, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, to make the following proposals for adoption. - - - - - - - - - -
ParlaMint-DK_20161116133017	Thank you. And the proposal, like the previous one, will be included in the further debate. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten, has just a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116133027	Thank you. First of all, I must say that it may surprise me a little that the Danish People's Party is so commendable to Atatürk, knowing that it is among other things. Atatürk, responsible for the Armenian genocide, introduced a constitution that does not recognise Christians and Kurds and many of the other minorities in the country. So that legacy has been very oppressive. It is not new that the Danish People's Party believes that EU accession negotiations with Turkey should be rejected. As far as I remember, that's what you always meant. But does the Danish People's Party, when it is proposed to do so in this proposal for adoption, and when we are discussing the imprisonment of parliamentarians and journalists who clearly distanced themselves from the coup, but are now in prison, believe that rejection of the admissions would be entirely beneficial to those of the democratic opposition who are imprisoned?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116133134	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116133135	We don't know that. In other words, it would be guessing what would happen if it actually became a reality that the accession negotiations were interrupted. But that's not our job in this situation. Our task is to be absolutely sure that Turkey will never become a member of the European Union. That's where it starts. How it will then develop in Turkey, one cannot know. I do not really believe that the opposition believes that it can be much worse than it is right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116133204	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116133206	I actually thought it was very nice to get that straightened out. In other words, when the Danish People's Party proposes to completely reject accession negotiations between the EU and Turkey, it is not to help the democratic opposition. So says Mr. Søren Espersen, that our only task is to ensure that Turkey does not become a member of the European Union. After all, Turkey is now a member of NATO. Turkey is a country on the border with Europe where we can already see that hundreds of thousands of refugees from the Kurdish territories have been hunted on the run. Does Denmark not have an interest in stopping yet another dictatorship of internal chaos and conflict on the border with Europe, and could we not do so by supporting the democratic forces?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116133248	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116133250	But often in this situation, you have to think first of all about what is closest to you. Our business here is to ensure that Turkey does not become a member of the European Union and does not ever become a member of the European Union. This is the task of the Danish People's Party. It is very difficult to say who it is that you support it or who you do not support it. I believe that Erdogan would see it as a very great humiliation if the European Union decided to stop the accession negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116133321	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116133336	Thank you. Developments are certainly in the wrong direction in Turkey. The coup attempt has been used by Erdogan as a very convenient opportunity to put political opponents behind bars and bars. In the past, we have also debated Turkey's arrests and persecution of elected representatives, and we certainly need to deal with the negative developments in Turkey once again. As you know, this country is both a member of NATO and a member of the Council of Europe, and that means that Turkey must meet certain standards. There is no doubt that Turkey is very far from these standards, for example. Council of Europe. The reason for this question is the detention and imprisonment of a large number of MEPs from the Kurdish HDP party, and unfortunately the incident is just one in many where democracy and the rule of law have been put out of effect in Turkey. At the same time, cases have also been initiated against editors-in-chief and a group of journalists in Turkey's only independent newspaper. Of course, Turkey has both a right and a duty to combat terrorism, including in relation to the PKK, and Turkey, of course, also has the right to bring those responsible for the attempted coup to account. However, both must take place within the framework of the rule of law and its institutions, and it is unfortunately very clear that that is not what is happening at the moment. Prisons and searches are highly politically motivated or directly arbitrary and, of course, we in Denmark must be concerned about developments. The two specific cases therefore resulted in the Turkish Ambassador being summoned for an interview with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is one of the more serious diplomatic steps that can be taken, and it is steps that are rarely applied. Of course, a conversation in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not lead Turkey to make such an automatic adjustment. It is only through the European Union that we can really take Turkey in a different direction. When we speak with one voice in the European Union, it has an entirely different effect on Ankara than if only Denmark criticises human rights violations. The European Union has criticized developments in Turkey on several occasions, including the weakening of the rule of law and basic freedoms. This happened only on 7 November, when a very strong statement was issued on Turkey. Turkey is part of a number of Western cooperation organisations and as such a strong ally in NATO, and it has taken decades to build this confidential relationship. The secular values on which Atatürk's modern Turkey is built are challenged. Thus, relations between Turkey and the Western world are also challenged. Erdogan has brought Turkey to a crossroads and continues to develop, Erdogan must make up his mind whether it should be a Western-inspired democracy and the rule of law or something quite different, for example. a Middle Eastern country. Of course, we have an interest in linking Turkey closely to Europe and the rest of the Western world, but a Turkey in which the rule of law and general freedoms have been permanently undermined is not a country that we can have as near allied in the future. So let us hope that it does not come to that and that it succeeds in getting Turkey to abandon the dangerous course on which it has embarked. In any case, it is important that we, too, from the Danish side do everything we can to ensure that this is done.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116133725	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's two comments, and that's Mr. Knox. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten, first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116133730	Thank you. After all, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, we have proposed that a way of putting the Turkish President, Mr Erdogan, in a tough way could be to suspend accession negotiations with the European Union until Turkey again guarantees democratic rights. Can the Left support it? And if the Left cannot support it, what is needed before these negotiations can be suspended?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116133759	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116133801	But on the Left side we cannot support it. The Left, as a party, has the clear position that some red lines can be set, and one of the red lines is for example. the death penalty. And if the Turkish Parliament adopts the death penalty, it will be a red line in relation to EU accession. However, as is happening at the moment, it is, of course, a balancing act, which is why the Left clearly believes that the balancing process must be that on the one hand we strongly reprimand Turkey against the breaches of freedoms, but on the other hand we also have an active dialogue with the opposition and with the various NGOs working for a more democratic Turkey. So it's a balancing act.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116133840	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116133841	I fully agree that the death penalty is unacceptable. I just don't think we should underestimate the fact that the Turkish President Erdogan is not stupid and he can easily play kiss with us. He wants us to discuss the introduction of the death penalty, and that must be a red line, and then all the repression that we are discussing today can continue without any consequence. So I would just like to hear from the Left: is the imposition of the death penalty really the only thing that can get the Left to support the suspension of accession negotiations until democratic rights are restored?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116133917	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116133918	Of course, we are following the situation closely. We have to admit that the various measures taken, most recently with the arrest of specific Members of Parliament, are extremely worrying, and therefore it is very, very difficult to put up such a list of facts, in relation to whether, if there are other measures, it is too much or too little. So the real and honest answer is that we are following the situation closely and that we are doing the job the longer we get into the process. We hope that the current international pressure will send out a clear signal not only to Erdogan, but also to the entire parliament, that we must now ensure that we do not go too far.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116133954	Sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116133956	If we are now trying to turn the clock back before the military coup, we can see that there was already a development in Turkey which was heading in an Islamist direction; I think everyone agrees on that. And then came the coup, which of course made it easier for Erdogan to have his political opponents imprisoned. But otherwise he was given power in a democratic election, so there was democracy in Turkey in that way. But then they chose to vote in favour of an Islamist direction. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left whether it comes as a great surprise to him that an Islamist politician is pursuing Islamist politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116134042	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116134043	Thank you for the question. First of all, I would like to draw attention to something that we may sometimes forget, and that is that there was in fact no majority in the Turkish people who voted in favour of Erdogan. It is only because of the very strange excuse that I say the Turkish electoral system, where you have very, very high demands on when a party has been elected, that the AKP party has obtained a majority in parliament. Otherwise it was actually less than 50% who voted for the AKP, Erdogan's party. Secondly, on the question of whether it comes as a surprise, I would say: yes, it actually does. One thing, of course, is that we have heard a rhetoric on the part of Erdogan, which is very worrying, and I share what Mr. Søren Espersen says that even before the attempted coup, we have seen a negative development, but another thing is that today we have seen thousands of random arrests and courts, which are really political, in relation to arrests, etc. etc. I must admit that I think has come as a great surprise to a large number of people.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116134146	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116134148	Now there are different electoral methods around the world. Here the proportion of votes you receive must be quite large before it gives elections; in England they have a special electoral system with single-member constituencies; in the United States we have just seen that Hillary Clinton received 1 million votes more than Donald Trump and yet did not become president. So I think we should ignore that electoral system and just say that this is how it works in Turkey, and in that light it was probably a democratic election that took place. Is it not true that the people voted for Islamism, and what do we do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116134223	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116134225	It is quite true that it was a democratic election; the international observers said that there were some different problems with the elections, but in general it was a democratic election, and of course we recognise that. This also means that Erdogan is democratically elected and we will have to deal with it. But from there on, to say that it does not matter what is going on in Turkey, I do not share that view. Turkey is a member of the Council of Europe, which is why there are a large number of criteria to be met.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116134252	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116134312	Thank you for your statement and thank you for your attention. Nikolaj Villumsen for his firsthand stories from his trip to Turkey, however depressing it may be. We live in a time when things are happening in the world that we did not in our wildest fantasy have thought would happen now: the Russians annex Crimea, Britain resigns from the European Union, the Member States of the European Union deny fundamental freedoms, the Americans surprise everyone with the choice of Trump, the development of democracy is rampant in many places, and it even goes back, not least in Turkey, this mighty country, which for many years has shown good tactics towards both economic development and the gradual establishment of democracy, as we know it from the Western liberal and secular democracies. In recent years, however, it has gone back, and after the failure of the coup, it seems to be going very wrong. Parliamentarians and political opponents are arrested and persecuted, independent journalists are imprisoned and teachers, judges and officials are dismissed in droves, international agreements are violated, and it is reported that death sentences may be on the way to being reinstated. That is very worrying. We in the Liberal Alliance have long been very sceptical about Turkey's desire to join the European Union and, as the situation now stands, there is no prospect of this. It is absolutely essential that not only the Danish Government but also the entire EU make it crystal clear to the Turkish Government that it is absolutely impossible for Turkey to become a member of the European Union as the situation currently stands. The Liberal Alliance therefore supports the proposal for adoption supported by a broad majority in the Folketing, and we are certainly not opposed to the Enhedslisten's idea that the EU should suspend the current accession negotiations until the situation may normalise. On the other hand, dialogue with Turkey is crucial for political, diplomatic and economic reasons. We will therefore leave it to the government to assess whether the next step should be a suspension of the accession negotiations, and in the Liberal Alliance we support such a wish if it is considered to be the wise next step. Until then, we are following developments closely and we expect the government to pay full attention to the situation both bilaterally and within the framework of the European Union. The Liberal Alliance supports the proposal for adoption tabled together with the Left, the Conservative People's Party, the Radical Left, the SF, the Social Democracy and the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116134556	Thank you. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116134558	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Liberal Alliance for being open to discussing the possibility of suspending the negotiations. It is true that such things should not just be done out of the blue. That should be wise. I just think that when we have a situation where Turkey is going in such a totally repressive direction as now, it would be wise to send a clear signal to Erdogan, and it would actually push him if there were a suspension of the EU's accession negotiations with Turkey until democratic rights were restored. But when does the Liberal Alliance think that would be wise? Of course, you can just say that the government knows that. But I do know that the Liberal Alliance sometimes disagrees with the government. So when does the Liberal Alliance think enough is enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116134646	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116134648	It is difficult to put on a precise stage and say what is needed of further horrors before one gets there. When is the critical dialogue wisest and when are the harder, more concrete consequences wisest? I think that, and this is an assessment, I recognise that in this situation, it is wise that we should, so to speak, retain an extra gear compared with Turkey for the possible situation that they, for example, have. had to come up with a way of reintroducing the death penalty.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116134717	Here you go, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116134720	Thank you. Frankly, as I said earlier, I do not think we should underestimate the Turkish President Erdogan at all. If I sense it right, the debate on the death penalty is something that can be played with Europe for as long as you want. For then we will have to discuss the possibility of the death penalty or not, and then we will not have to discuss whether it should have consequences for the violent repression being done right now by the democratic opposition. So if the Liberal Alliance agrees with that, why isn't it now that we have to put a line in the sand? And what other than the death penalty can trigger the suspension of negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116134807	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116134808	I fully agree with the rapporteur that we must not underestimate President Erdogan and what he is both capable and prepared to do with his people. In fact, I believe that we have been doing this for far too long, in other words just underestimating him and his project. Then the rapporteur asks again where it is that we are drawing the line in the sand. If I knew exactly what developments would be in Turkey, so to speak, it could be more easily answered more specifically. In any case, I can say in concrete terms that on the day of formal decision to introduce the death penalty in Turkey, we are also voting to suspend the accession negotiations possibly earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116134849	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next one is sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116134858	The situation in Turkey is extremely frightening. The recent escalation of human rights and democracy abuses cannot be ignored. In the alternative, we, like the rest of the Folketing, of course condemn the developments which have taken place over recent years and which have escalated to such an extent since the coup attempt this summer. When you look out into the world today, you may wonder about the change that is happening. We are increasingly seeing more and more countries questioning what were obvious a few years ago: international standards of human rights and democracy. I am not saying that in any way in order to equate what is happening in Turkey with the discussion that is going on elsewhere in relation, for example, to what is happening in Turkey. international conventions and human rights. But when something like what is happening in Turkey can happen after a number of years, when there has actually been a positive development, it calls for reflection from all of us. When free media closes, when journalists and judges and even school teachers are fired and persecuted, when our good colleagues from HDP, the Turkish Parliament, are put behind bars, then we have an obligation to respond. There is also cause for serious concern when it comes to the general situation of the Kurds in Turkey. Unfortunately, we are seeing an escalation of the conflict and it is dangerous and frightening. Turkey is blocking the freedom of the press to cover these conditions and to cover the conflicts in Kurdish areas both in northern Syria and in Turkey in general. The free press is essential to document events and abuses and to form the basis for an enlightened debate that ensures an enlightened basis for decision-making. So we must not forget the situation of the Kurds because, for example, we are afraid that refugees will come to Europe. Of course, when you have to respond to these kinds of situations, it's all about constantly weighing down: What is the most important thing we get out of? When are we going to play what cards and not throw all the cards in advance? We believe it is quite obvious that we need to look at the refugee agreement made between the European Union and Turkey and suspend it. It is precisely because it contains a great deal of money on the one hand and, on the other, people who are on the run contain people who are entitled to protection under international rules. At the same time, it is an agreement which is strongly criticised by human rights organisations, precisely because it can also be seen as a violation of human rights. That is why it is an obvious place to start at first. But there is now a need, in general, for us to work actively, for the government to work actively, both bilaterally and through all the international forums we can, to press Erdogan to respect democracy's rules of play and to respect human rights and to drop the state of emergency that is being used as an excuse to attack, fire and persecute citizens. There is a need for Danish support for human rights, international agreements, because this means that we can also press a country such as Turkey.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116135222	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. And that means that now it's sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116135234	The situation in Turkey is both deeply worrying and deeply unhappy, especially when you think that if we go back just two years, we were in a very different situation. Then there was optimism, there were serious peace negotiations between the Kurdish minority and the Turkish Government. Several of us had the hope that decades of conflict, armed uprising, terror and repression of Kurdish minorities could be brought to an end and replaced by a peaceful agreement for the benefit and joy of all peaceful people on both sides of the table. We had a situation in which Turkey was celebrated and honoured to receive up to 1.5 million refugees from the neighbouring country without any grief. The majority paid Turkey themselves and with an impressive humanitarian effort to help the many Syrian refugees. In the more traditional area of freedom of expression, too, progress was made. It wasn't perfect. There were still, as I remember, a few hundred journalists in prison, which is all, too many, but the figure was too down. It went quietly the right way. It is not long ago that we had that optimism, and today we have to say that in all areas things are going in exactly the opposite direction. There is a need to do everything possible to reverse the situation, to help those people, including Kurdish politicians, journalists and others who work for a Turkey where human rights are respected and where all sections of the population can live peacefully. The question is, when we stand here today: what can we do to push for this to happen in a situation in which the tensions in Turkey are becoming felt and where the President clearly does not intend to change course immediately on the attempted coup d'état? Today, the debate has focused on whether to play EU membership as a pawn at this stage. I would like to join the choir among the rapporteurs who believe that this is not the right time to do so, and this is simply because the forum in which the negotiations on accession are taking place is in which I do not think we can do without it. This is very much where the critical dialogue is taking place, and that is where the pressure is being put back on the officials, on the system that supports Erdogan. That's one reason. The second reason is that I still believe that the basic principle that the European Union wants to negotiate with Turkey is, if I may say so, our greatest instrument in the toolbox in terms of putting pressure on Erdogan. And the moment we pick up that instrument and throw it away, it doesn't exist anymore. Then you can't use it either as a cane or as a carrot. And so the EU does not have very many other tools in the toolbox. That is why we must be very careful how to apply it. It is obvious to me that the accession of Turkey to the European Union will be ■ if it ever takes place many, many years into the future, because it is quite clear that Turkey is currently moving away from such accession. For that very reason, however, I think it would be a mistake and I think it would be a disservice to do the pressure groups in Turkey, both the journalists and the media that are being oppressed, but also the Kurdish groups, if the European Union withdraws from the fight in this way at this stage. That is why the solution for me and for the Radical Left is to see that we maintain the pressure, that we do it precisely through the European Union and in all the forums that exist as a result of the accession negotiations, thereby exerting maximum pressure, both as a country and as a European Union. Therefore, I am also pleased to read out the following proposals for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Alternative, the Radical Left, the SF and the Conservatives: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament criticises the arrests in Turkey by parliamentarians from the HDP and journalists from the independent newspaper Cumhuriyet and calls on the government, referring to V 28 and V 75 from 2016, to work actively for their release, both bilaterally and in relevant international forums. - - - - - - - - - - - -
ParlaMint-DK_20161116135724	Thank you. There are some Members of Parliament who have signed up for comments. First, it's sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116135734	Thank you. First of all, I do not agree with Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard in that it is only the EU accession negotiations that we have to push Turkey with. Turkey has a customs union which is very, very exceptional and closely linked to the European Union. We give billions of financial aid annually from the taxpayers of Europe to the Turkish Government. We have military contributions from NATO to support Turkey. So I simply do not agree that this is the only thing we have to push Turkey along with. However, I believe that exactly a suspension if you did it now could be a tool that would sincerely push Erdogan, because it would mean that very large parts of his population would turn against him. Why can't it be a tool now? In other words, does it really make sense for the Radicals to negotiate accession to the European Union with a government at a time when this government is imprisoning the democratic opposition, imprisoning government-critical journalists? Does it give meaning to dialogue, to negotiations on accession at such a time?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116135850	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116135851	What is going on in the negotiating rooms where accession is now being negotiated is not that we are sitting and setting a date for Turkey to join the European Union. It is that the EU negotiators are pointing out that what is happening in Turkey at the moment is taking Turkey further away from ever being admitted. These are very precise indications of where Turkey is today going the wrong way, where human rights are being trampled underfoot and therefore making it more difficult. And that is precisely the dialogue, the critical dialogue and the pressure, which I believe, in my view, to both Mr Beazley and Mr Beazley. Nikolaj Villumsen and I would like to put down. Let us just play with the idea that the European Union said: now we are interrupting all negotiations. Then there isn't that room anymore, and how would Erdogan take it down? What would we get out of it? I think Erdogan would say to the Turks: now there is no European perspective, now even the European Union will no longer negotiate with us. Now we have no reason at all to listen to the European Union any longer, now we can go exactly the way we want. That is how I think the result will be if you pull the plug now, and that is why I am against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116140005	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116140008	I fully agree that if you say that Turkey will never become a member of the European Union, so that the Danish People's Party's proposal wins broad support in the European Union and goes through so that Turkey can never become a member of the European Union, then Erdogan will be able to say so, Mr. Martin Lidegaard just stood there and said he would say. But I think that there is a very, very great difference between that and a suspension in the sense that as long as there are no democratic rights, one cannot negotiate; when there are democratic rights, one can again negotiate. It is very, very different, and I sincerely believe it will work. I therefore believe that it is important for us to take a hard stand, because we must remember that Turkey is already a member of the Council of Europe. There is nothing in what Erdogan is now doing with the imprisonment of parliamentarians and the imprisonment of journalists, which he has not already promised with his membership of the Council of Europe and his signature on the European Convention on Human Rights that he would not do. So Turkey will continue to be in dialogue with the Council of Europe, even if EU accession negotiations are suspended.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116140104	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116140105	That's right. The Council of Europe wants that dialogue and has it. But as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen himself also refers to the fact that, in this matter, the European Union speaks with greater importance than the Council of Europe and that the critical dialogue under the EU's accession negotiations puts greater pressure on Erdogan than the Council of Europe does. This is not something I would like to have to be, but I think that is how it is because it is so attractive for Turkey in areas other than equal human rights to apply for membership of the European Union, among other things. For commercial reasons, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen also mentioned. That is why I believe that believing that we can speak with equal weight under the auspices of the Council of Europe is an illusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116140147	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116140150	I think it was painted with very fine rose-red colours, how Turkey was two years ago. I do not remember it that way, that is, it was a terrible development that Turkey was entering, clearly in an Islamist direction, and it was then among other things. also discussed here in the Folketing. Let it go. We can, for example, take the 1.5 million refugees, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard refers to Turkey taking care of, yes. No, they don't. They go around and are different places where they can get to do a little work and make a little money. That is the way it works in Turkey, and I believe that too, Mr President. Martin Lidegaard can assure himself if he talks to Turkish journalists about it, as I have done. I would just like to say about accession to the European Union that even before the coup there were votes from France, for example, saying: Turkey will never be admitted to the European Union. It was far-fetched, it wasn't even 50 years from now, it was far, far-fetched if it was to happen at all. Then we should not also be fair to Turkey in this sense and say: that is not acceptable. That's not gonna happen. So it was already known two years ago. Why not say so now in this situation, which is much, much worse?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116140259	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116140300	I mean, the situation in Turkey wasn't pink from two years ago. That was not my starting point either. The starting point was that they moved slowly, but quietly in the right direction. Now they are doing exactly the opposite, my opinion. And it is true that not all refugees in Turkey are well, but there are not very many refugees anywhere in the world, and some of the refugees in Turkey live in refugee camps, which I am, among others, living in. has visited and is of quite high international standard. And that is quite right, as Mr. Søren Espersen says that many others do not have room in the refugee camps, and they live under more hugged conditions, private, in garages, in backyards, in tents and indeed, it is not rosy conditions, but they have been sheltered, unlike what they had in Syria. In other words, our position on Turkey is that Turkey cannot and should not become a member until it meets the Copenhagen criteria laid down for it, and it is quite true that there is a very, very long time to do so. I just don't think there's any reason, like saying the opposite: it can never happen. Because what is it really going to get out of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116140410	Here you go, sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116140412	As far as refugees are concerned, Turkey has always had a porous eastern border where people could get in, and if they could find some job, it was fine, or if they could wash a car, they would get paid for it. That's the way it's been done. So I just want to say to this about depicting it as if Turkey has taken a huge amount of financial responsibility for its refugees, so people think they are sitting in the same way as they are doing here, in proper conditions, that it is wrong. It hasn't been like that. Then I'll ask Mr. Martin Lidegaard on what it means when Mr. Martin Lidegaard says that Turkey is moving in the right direction. Does this mean that you said yes to a whole lot of things you would do, but still didn't? Is not the right direction really an Islamist direction? That is what I have tried to say several times today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116140454	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116140456	I do not think this development was clear two years ago; it was the picture I had two years ago. For example: As far as the peace process and negotiations with the Kurdish minority are concerned, I believe that we were closer to achieving a happy outcome there than we have been for many decades in Turkey. That is not a small thing in Turkey, and I think Mr. Søren Espersen will agree. And I would just like to say that I do not want to say that life is rosy for refugees in Turkey, but to claim that Turkey does not spend a considerable amount of billions on entertaining and supporting an extraordinary number of refugees in Turkey is, after all, also not to recognise a great deal of effort on the part of Turkey in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116140537	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116140552	I have nothing good to say about developments in Turkey. It is on the way to a dictatorship. One can discuss what it has been in the past such an autocratic system of parliamentary elections etc. I think we have to deal with that, and that is why we have this debate today too. It is clear that it is a problem for other countries in the Western world that Turkey is moving in this direction, because we have close cooperation with Turkey in various fora, not least in NATO. And for NATO, which was set up as a defence for the democracies, it is a little strange, to say the least, that there is a country which is so much undermining democracy. We are dealing with Turkey in the fight against the Islamic State, where Turkey plays a completely counterproductive role, in which Turkey insists on helping to combat the IS, but where Turkey is actually fighting the Kurds, why there is an independent task in keeping Turkey away from the fighting in Syria and Iraq. Then there are the accession negotiations on the European Union that are ongoing. I think there is every reason to increase the criticism of Turkey. There is every reason for the Danish Government to raise its voice and also to demand the release of political prisoners. And I think that the proposal for adoption tabled by the large majority here, and of course the demand for the release of prisoners, is an important signal sent out by a large majority here in the Danish Parliament. I would have liked the whole parliament to be behind such a signal. I think it would have been the strongest in relation to the Turkish Government if it had been possible to do so. And in view of the fact that there has actually been a tightening up of what the government has said in the past, I am very surprised that the Enhedslisten is not on the proposal that they are spending all their time discussing the European Union instead of criticising Erdogan. I have to say, I'm a little puzzled, but it's the party's own choice. In any case, I think it is important that we who are behind this motion for a resolution maintain that the Danish Parliament has a large majority in the Danish Parliament which strongly criticises Turkey and insists that political prisoners be released and, above all, that we do so in relation to the Members of Parliament who have been arrested. I think that is a step forward in relation to the past, and I think we should stand together on that. And we must also say it in public instead of going into a lot of internal arguments and controversy about what is not in this. Instead, let us stand together and say that in this proposal for adoption we are actually delivering a quite, quite strong criticism of Turkey.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116140949	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116140952	Thank you. In other words, there is no doubt that I had hoped that we could achieve three things with this debate today: a clear criticism, a demand for release and then also a collection of concrete action. And I think the best thing we could do would be to suspend accession negotiations until democratic rights are guaranteed. It seems that we are going to achieve the first two things: a clear criticism and a demand from a broad majority in the Danish Parliament for release. I fully agree with Mr. Holger K. Nielsen in, it's really positive. I'm not trying to spoil the debate. On the contrary, it was our best bid that a suspension could be a concrete act that would really push Erdogan. Is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen agrees that it would be a concrete demand that would be able to press Erdogan?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116141044	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116141045	Well, I guess it could, but instead of taking the debate on it, and that's what Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen has spent the whole afternoon on the island, so it is no more important that we like to stress that we actually get two of those things fulfilled, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen mentioned earlier, that is to say that we are actually sharpening the criticism of Erdogan and that we are demanding the release of political prisoners? Is it not a more important message to get from this debate than to hang on to the fact that there are some parties that do not want to be involved in that demand? We know what it's like. The Enhedslisten also knows very well how it works. That is why I do not think it is particularly politically wise in relation to the situation of the Kurds or in relation to the criticism of Turkey that there is a major conflict that some parties do not want to suspend accession negotiations, instead of emphasising the positive aspect of this, which is precisely that we are delivering a stronger criticism of Turkey.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116141146	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116141149	Unfortunately, this is not the first time we have discussed Turkey. Unfortunately, this will not be the last time we discuss Turkey either. And every time we've done it in the last year and it's the third inquiry debate we have, because the development has just gone from bad to worse there's been a discussion about where we should put the cut, how far we should go. I fully agree that it is positive that there is a broad majority in favour of criticising imprisonment and demanding release. If we in the Group of the European People's Party have allowed ourselves to propose a suspension of the accession negotiations, that is because we believe it could be something that could actually push Erdogan even more. I think it is positive to hear that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen is also in favour of this, and I hope that in future we can have a majority behind that proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116141238	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116141239	What kind of chat is that? Instead of chatting like that, was it not better to stand together here in the Folketing today, where we have an opportunity to stand together to criticize Erdogan more strongly than we have done in the past? What we are talking about is such a tactical manoeuvre on the part of the Enhedslisten, rather than the real political criticism of Erdogan and Turkey, which I think we, as parties in this Parliament, should stand together and which could actually stand strong, but now are weaker, because there are parties that would rather run internal tactical polemics instead of making politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116141316	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116141327	Once upon a time, there was a democracy. That's what it said on the cover of Der Spiegel a week after the military coup. It wasn't a reference to the military coup. When Turkey was once a democracy and today is merely a jealous democracy, it is largely due to the person Erdogan and his AKP. He has simply destroyed the Turkish model, which was a model of success many years ago when it came to combining Islam with democracy. So Erdogan has been a disaster for secular Turkey, and since he was elected in 2002, there has been an insidious Islamisation and confusion of religion and politics in Turkey. Turkey's development has been in the wrong direction for several years. For many years there have been problems with journalists who have been imprisoned, we have seen violations of freedom of expression, and Turkey is struggling with states such as China and Egypt to be the country in the world that puts most journalists in prison. Since Erdogan has introduced the state of emergency, more than 100 journalists have been imprisoned. Nor is Turkey able, under Erdogan, to look after its minorities, especially the Kurds, and so the leadership of the country does not understand that part of democracy requires the protection of minorities and also political opponents. The whole hunt for people belonging to the Gülen movement has in recent months been a farce and is only worthy of a rogue state. 36,000 people have been arrested and 100,000 have been fired, and now the two presidents of the Kurdish party, who in the last elections in November 2015, received 10.76 per cent. by the votes, been imprisoned. When so many people are imprisoned in such a short time, this means that Turks are frightened not to express themselves and not to have sympathy for the Kurds or Gülen publicly. It is not an unrealistic scenario that Erdogan will soon begin to remove management in the only real government alternative, the secular CHP. In connection with its criticism of the arrests by the Kurdish Party of MEPs, Erdogan returned the criticism of jointly suing the leaders of the CHP and all members of the party for the violation of millions of citizens. What we have seen in Turkey since the coup of 15 and 16 July is totally unacceptable and must be condemned. Erdogan has used the coup to imprison his political opponents, and the imprisonment of the Kurdish leaders during the state of emergency is therefore another incident in the ranks of many. Turkey is taking another step away from western democracy and towards the frivolous democracy. It is now almost impossible to even call it that. It may well be that Turks go to elections, but what is a democracy worth if the press is run by the President, if a people dare not express opposition and the political opponents are in prison? I think it was right that our Foreign Minister condemned the coup in July. It is also true that the Minister has expressed strong concern about the imprisonment of MEPs and journalists. He should be commended for that. It is also important that we, together in this Parliament, make a very, very strong decision condemning what is happening in Turkey. We also believe that the time may have come to suspend EU negotiations with Turkey. It is grotesque that they are called an EU candidate country. It should stop. I do not really understand why EU accession is being negotiated, because I do not see them becoming part of the European Union in our lifetime. So it's almost a waste of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116141742	Thank you to the rapporteur, and then it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116141756	I would like to start by thanking the parties of the Folketing for a good debate which actually shows that if you listen to each other a little more than just yourself, there will be a greater consensus than is immediately apparent in a case where there are three proposals for adoption. Because in all the rapporteurs I have heard from this, plus in the questions and answers that have been given, there is a deep concern about developments in Turkey and a clear criticism of the way in which President Erdogan and the Turkish regime are currently treating political opponents and journalists in terms of freedom of expression, human rights and democracy at all. There is a clear line in all the speeches, which means that we actually express exactly the same thing with a little different emphasis on what is then the wise way to achieve our common goal. I always think it is a wise idea to ask oneself whether the steps one takes bring one closer to the objective one has or further away. That is why the question of how we react specifically in relation to Turkey's accession negotiations with the European Union is, of course, a question of how we get closer to the objective we have. It is an objective of a Turkey that respects human rights, which has a real democracy, which has a real freedom of expression, which has a real freedom of the press. It is not the case that I believe that there would be strong opposition in Turkey to their being no longer a candidate country. On the contrary, a large number of opinion polls show that the people already have the attitude that they do not really want to be a candidate country. When we have held on to Turkey as a candidate country, it has been because it provides such a framework to discuss all these things. Whatever you think of Turkey, it is a country, it is not a boat. We can't push it away from us. It is exactly where it does, geographically, and it is increasingly geographically interesting in the concept that has been missing in foreign policy for many years, but has come back: geopolitics, that is, that it matters where you are physically. And Turkey is on the border between the Middle East and Europe, between Asia and Europe in terms of traffic routes, trade routes, and, yes, refugee and migration routes. That is why we need to have a way of having a dialogue with Turkey, that is, about what is going on, a framework in which we can tell them honestly that we criticise the way in which they act; that we criticise the fact that the democracy they have has been reduced to only some institutions with no real substance. Because we in Parliament know that a democracy is much more than a regular vote. A democracy is really a question of how to deal with the people with whom you disagree; how to deal with disagreements about politics, social development, norms and values. Turkish democracy has become increasingly hollow and only has a parliament and elections that can no longer be called completely free, as a democratic frame of reference. That's why my reaction to the day of the attempted coup, or rather on the morning of the attempted coup, was that I sent out my first tweet at noon. 02.23. So the fact that we should have waited a long time and that we should have slept on it is not appropriate to the reaction pattern that was in the day. My first tweet was to reject the attempted coup and support democratic institutions, not Erdogan as such. For Erdogan, unfortunately, over the past two years, has turned away from a positive course. I very much agree with much of that, sir. Martin Lidegaard said about the course that was in the early years of Erdogan and where he first opened up, sought peace negotiations with the Kurds and abolished the death penalty. But then there is what he has done over the last two years, when it has been a sad passage further and further away from the Turkey we would have liked to have seen. That is why I am very pleased that a large part of Parliament's parties have agreed on a proposal for adoption, which I actually hope that those parties that are not behind the proposal will also consider voting in favour tomorrow, so that we send out a clear signal of criticism and call for their release and for Turkey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116142218	Sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116142222	It was I who said that I regret that the Secretary of State had waited. But apparently he was out pretty fast with a tweet. But I would like to ask why it was really so important for the Foreign Minister to congratulate him on the fact that the coup had been defeated. Why was it so important? Now the Foreign Minister says he would support the democratic forces. Is it Erdogan the Foreign Minister is referring to, or were there other forces he would support with his support?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116142258	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116142259	I write: Denmark and the EU condemn military action in Turkey and support democratic institutions. In the democratic institutions I also have a parliament in which parliamentarians have immunity and are not prosecuted for their positions. What we are currently seeing is that a number of members of the HDP are being prosecuted on the basis of their positions. It may be that the formalism that they are accused and do not appear for questioning is the framework, but the content behind the framework is that they are persecuted on the basis of their opinions. I would like to support a parliament as an institution, about democracy and freedom of expression, about freedom of assembly, about the right to express itself also in peaceful demonstrations; the right to choose its own mayor, who is not moved by a central power that has no respect for what the local people have wanted. All these things lie to me in the tweet that was sent out in the morning after the attempted coup had started the night before.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116142359	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116142400	Does the Foreign Minister recognize that it was the three times since 1960 when the military took power, i.e. in 1960, 1971 and 1980, specifically and exclusively to prevent and stop Islamist development? Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs recognise that there was a reason why the army took power and that it was also the same reason that tried to do the same in 2016?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116142433	Thank you. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116142434	I recognise that it has historically been interpreted as an attempt at coups in order to stop a development away from the system that Atatürk started Turkey on the basis of, but I find it very difficult to see the positive of replacing one wrong direction with another. And replacing an Islamist form of government with a fascist form of government is not an improvement. It is not an improvement, after all, when what we saw was executions, deaths and a boycott of democracy, and only at a much later stage did the military dictatorship then begin again to leave Turkey to the Turkish people. We saw in the first approx. Ten years, that Erdogan actually introduced some reforms and then changed, and in the last two years it has gone in the wrong direction. We have criticised that, and we again criticised it today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116142523	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116142527	Thank you. I very much agree that there will be no peace in a country by means of repression. Syria is, after all, a good example of a very brutal dictatorship that oppresses its own people. In no way has it brought peace or stability to the rear, on the contrary, a brutal civil war. I very much agree that it is positive if we in the Folketing can send out a clear criticism of what is going on and demand the release of MEPs. That is why, of course, Enhedslisten will also support and tomorrow will vote in favour of the proposal for adoption, which can receive a majority, and will do so here because we are sending a clear signal, and I would urge the Danish People's Party to do the same. One thing I have tried to strike several times today is whether we should not go further and suspend accession negotiations with Turkey until democratic rights are restored. I would just like to hear from the Secretary of State whether the Secretary of State sees it happen. Is there a time when the Secretary of State will say: Enough is enough? We can see that this has actually happened in Austria. It has been said that this is enough. But when will it be too much for the government to accept continued accession negotiations when the democratic opposition is imprisoned?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116142642	Here you go, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116142643	First of all, I would like to thank you for the commitment to vote in favour of the adoption. This means that, with even greater force and possibly, depending on the last party, with the unanimous opinion of the Folketing, we are sending a clear signal to Turkey. As far as red lines are concerned, we have said clearly that reintroducing the death penalty will be a red line, because it breaks with the whole assumption that one can be in the category of candidate country as possible for the European Union. It was a clear requirement, prior to Turkey being granted candidate status, that they amend their criminal law so that the death penalty was abolished. It would be an equally clear breach of the premises that have been in place if it were to be reinstated. I'm not saying it'll be the only red line that will be. We are following these calls very closely, and I would like to make what Mrs Christina Egelund mentioned a promise. She asked for the government to pay full attention to the situation and developments, and I promise. We are fully aware of the situation and developments and will therefore also monitor whether there may be a time when it no longer makes sense. However, when some of our interlocutors in Turkey say that we must keep having the conversation, keep having the dialogue, keep pushing for someone to tell us when things are going wrong in Turkey, and stop pushing them into the arms of other countries against which Turkey will then, if necessary, turn, which do not have the democratic tradition and attachment that we have on the Danish side, I am listening (Mr President Yes! ) Sorry, I'm also listening to the President and quietly.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116142820	That sounds good. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116142823	Thank you. I don't think you should underestimate the fact that Erdogan can get soft on his knees if you push him. After all, we saw Putin, who neither the Secretary of State nor I like, press Erdogan financially after shooting down the Russian military aircraft. It actually made Erdogan give in to the Russians. So I think it's easy to push Erdogan. There is an opportunity through the Customs Union, which is an opportunity through the direct aid of billions that is given every year by the European Union to Turkey. There is one possibility that I have mentioned several times today and that we in the Enhedslist are proposing, namely that accession negotiations be suspended. If you do not wish to do so today by the government, I would just like to ask you to consider whether you should not do so as soon as possible. I think it is positive that the Minister says that it is not only the reintroduction of the death penalty that can trigger a suspension of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116142916	Thank you. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116142917	Unfortunately, as I mentioned in my speech at the beginning, we are going to have a meeting on progress reports in Turkey's case in December. There, too, we will be discussing how we will react and what our opinion will be. This issue we are discussing today, in other words Turkey's development, is something that we are constantly discussing both in the government and in the EU circle, and therefore there will be a whole series of opportunities to take other steps later, depending on what happens. That is why the promise of full attention to the matter is being given here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116142953	Thank you. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen would like to finish off.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116143010	Thank you. I am pleased that there has been a broad criticism today of the repression in Turkey. I have heard it from the vast majority of parties, and I hope that we can all meet tomorrow to express a clear criticism, just as I fully agree with the rapporteurs who have expressed the need for a resumption of the peace negotiations so that a peaceful solution can be found to the Kurdish question. The reality is that right now Erdogan is going in exactly the opposite and wrong direction. He is heading in the direction of dictatorship and he is heading in the direction of conflict, and I would really like to say to Mr Seligman. Søren Espersen in relation to the debate that has taken place, whether it was not better with military coups in the past or the dictatorship under Atatürk. I think we have to take note of the fact that when you have violent repression, you also have conflict. We can clearly see this, for example in Syria, one of the most brutal and oppressive dictatorships with a large number of brutal intelligence services to crack down on any type of opposition. What happened? There's been a violent civil war and a rebellion against the President. In no way, therefore, has repression led to stability. Therefore, it is also so important if we want to avoid conflict, if we want to avoid the flow of refugees from Turkey to Europe, that we support the democratic forces in Turkey today, so that they are not forced to flee tomorrow. In the Enhedslisten, we would very much have liked to have been able to create a majority in order to oblige the government today to work for a suspension of the EU's accession negotiations. We have not succeeded in doing so, and I have to say that after the negotiations have been concluded, however, we have succeeded in bringing together a broad majority behind a criticism of the detentions and a demand for release. I think that is absolutely essential, just as it is very positive that a broad majority should be brought together in order to oblige the government to work for it, both bilaterally and in international fora. Of course, on the part of the Enhedslisten, we will keep the Foreign Minister up to the words of the Foreign Minister that these words will also become action. For us, it is vital that we support the democratic forces, that we demand the release of journalists and the democratic opposition. And I hope, and there I appeal to the Danish People's Party, that we can have a united Parliament behind that demand tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116143255	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor. I have to say that the vote on the proposals for adoption, as mentioned, will not take place until Thursday 17 November 2016. Then the meeting is suspended until 8 a.m. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-DK_20161116150001	The sitting is resumed. I should like to inform you that, as I have said, there is no questioner on question No. Question No 6, which is Question No 6: S 187. I should also like to point out that the question raised by Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party in paragraph 21 to the Minister for Health and the Elderly, Question No. S 195 is deleted from the agenda. The first question is to the Foreign Minister, and it is asked by René Gade of the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116150046	I'd like to ask you, sir. René Gade of the Alternative to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116150047	Thank you. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is this: will the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in the text of the agreement for the historical analysis of Denmark's participation in the war, indicate about the choice of the research team nominated by the Rector's College that the appointment must be made in agreement among the parties behind the historical investigation.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In this light, have the other parties gone further in the process?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116150126	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116150128	I would like to begin by regretting that the alternative would not participate in the appointment of the two proposed researchers when the alternative had nothing to do with them. The alternative itself has stressed to the press that it is not a personal question. Secondly, I think it is quite an insult to claim that this is a clear breach of the agreement, as the questioner puts it. Unanimity presupposes a real desire among those involved to agree. I could not trace such a wish from the rapporteur of the Alternative. The alternative rapporteur was not prepared to agree to the proposal made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and agreed by the other four parties to the agreement. These are talented researchers who are nominated by the Rectoral College under Danish Universities. Both researchers are known for their professionalism and their objectivity. When, after some time of discussion with the Alternative, it turned out that, despite these settings, there was no possibility of reaching agreement with the Alternative, we saw in the circle no other option than to go ahead with an agreement which unfortunately no longer includes the Alternative. It is important to me that we now move on to the matter and that the two reputable researchers who were then nominated by the Rectoral College, following the procedure of the political agreement, which, frankly, we had also hoped for the Alternative, could join us soon. After all, the agreement between the four parties provides for the project to be completed within two years.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116150252	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116150254	The reason why I am standing here and asking the Minister the question is, of course, that in the alternative we only agreed to this agreement, which is in many ways flawed, and it was also when we concluded it, because we could then be here at the end as a watchdog, when it actually became a study for which the researchers could stand up. We have not had any meetings where all parties have been represented, in this area of agreement since the summer holiday, when it passed from the Minister of Justice to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in addition to the one meeting where we are told who is to be the research team. Before that, we have said from the alternative that we are willing to follow the positions of the Rectoral College at all times. We're still away, that's to say, I'm ready to go out of this room and find a solution. Only one solution has been found from the Foreign Minister, and that is exactly what the issue here is about. And that's what we agreed with the Minister of Justice at the time, that when we were in this situation, like I told the Minister of Justice that we'd probably be in the chair, we'd have the right of veto. That is why it says that all parties must agree. I therefore ask: will the Foreign Minister recognise that all parties in this area of agreement have not been in agreement and that the government will therefore have to rip this agreement over and make a new one? Otherwise, the government must invite the alternative again and then invite more researchers so that you can look at the basis of the agreement, which has received great criticism, and then say: what can we do to have more than three researchers throughout Denmark agree to or are available to carry out this study? We find it very suspicious that one does not listen better to the research community at home if only three researchers can carry out this rather general task.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116150443	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116150445	If I remember correctly and I think I do so here, then the proposal that it ended up with is not the only proposal we have had. We had a proposal to move forward; the alternative did not want to support it. Then we asked for new proposals on the basis that one of the candidates for the research posts withdrew. So we asked for new proposals from the Rector's College. On the basis of the late hour and on the basis that a number of researchers who were otherwise qualified had committed themselves to other posts, the Rector College came back and said: We cannot add new names. Then we had a new proposal, that is, proposal No. 2 which the alternative did not agree with either. All the other parties in the contract circle agreed that it was the right mix of different competences to put into the research team. If we were to achieve this within the time frame that was planned, it was essential that we move forward in this. We have discussed both by e-mail and finally in a longer personal meeting what can be done to move forward. I do not share the picture that there has been no contact or conversation or that there has been only one proposal. I have the impression that we have clearly tried with a proposal; the alternative did not want to support it. Then we came back with another proposal; the alternative did not want to support it either. And then we were over there, where the four parties agreed to go, unless you had to think that only one party had the right of veto, and the four others had nothing to say about going further, but where one party did not agree that you should go further. And that's why our paths parted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116150608	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116150610	We have a situation where the government's support parties are now the only ones supporting this agreement. There was already a majority before we concluded the agreement, which means that there is nothing new here. So the agreement referred to by the Foreign Minister has always been there and then there is one party that demands that the right of veto actually be upheld, not so funny, but very logical, in that we have always been those who have been outside. So I ask again: how can we, in future, make agreements with the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, if, in relation to something so clear, it is simply said that this cannot be taken into account and we go further, even if there was a clear agreement? That is where I stand now: I cannot enter into agreements with the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Minister for Justice in the future, because this is a clear breach of the agreement. I said from the outset that this could be the case, and the Minister for Justice said to me: we are open to that, we can deal with the criticism, we need this investigation, and it must be as far-reaching and as learning as possible. Now we are faced with the fact that once a critical question has been raised as to whether this is the right thing to do, and then we stop the process and exclude those parties that are not party supporters of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116150712	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116150713	I have to repeat once again that we have had a proposal which the alternative could not support. Then we come up with a new proposal, which the alternative cannot support either, and you insist on having only one combination when it comes to the researchers who are to be able to deliver the task, which the rest of the conciliation circle cannot support. I must admit that I have not been involved in the negotiations that took place with the Minister for Justice, and I therefore refer to the text, and the text does not say that there is one party with a right of veto, but it says that we must agree on the appointment. But if we do not agree from the outset, then we need the parties to be ready to move. However, the first proposal that we put on the table could not be agreed on, nor could we agree on the second proposal, and finally there were also other tasks on which various researchers had agreed to only two options left. When one option is then supported by one party and the other one is supported by four parties, if I could ask back, I would just like to ask: what would be the most logical? Is it to support the proposal supported by only one party or to support the proposal supported by four parties? For me there was no doubt, and that is why we are moving forward with the proposal supported by the four parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116150823	Then it is the questioner for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116150825	The most logical thing would be for the Iraqi Commission not to be closed. But it happened, and that is why we entered into this alliance, to see if we could learn anything while we are waiting for an Iraq Commission to start again, so that we can actually be informed. But the government does not seem to want to be enlightened. On the contrary, the narrowest possible solution is chosen. The recommendation was that we should have six researchers nominated from the Rectoral College. To begin with, we could only get four, and that came down to three, and now, on the basis of a number of three researchers, we have chosen to demand that the parties involved in the agreement should say yes to exactly the one position that came from the Foreign Minister. And that is simply not true when it is said that we have only accepted one. We have had several solutions in play, and I have said: let us go back and find out why it is that no more researchers in Denmark will be involved in this and then improve the basis of the agreement. But the government would rather rush it through. I don't think we're under any pressure of time. On the contrary, we must do it properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116150924	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116150925	I think it is right to have a process in which it is discussed, given that the aim of the Iraq Commission was so narrow that it was also open up so much that once the investigation has been completed, and if there is criticism of it, there may be alternative eyes looking at the basis of it. We have done all this to ensure that there was as broad support behind it as possible. I am deeply sorry that the College of Principals has not come back with six names as agreed. I even tried to ask the Rector's College if they could find some more names, so we had a broader basis to search for. I just wanted to say that it didn't come. Then came some names of some people who are professionally agreed to be competent to solve the task, and these are also the ones I have asked to do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151022	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and thank you to Mr Seligman. René Gade for today's work. Question 2 is to the Minister for Culture, and Mr. Jan Johansen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151032	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151034	Thank you. What is the Minister's position on the EU judgment delivered on 10 November 2016 stating that the same rules should apply to ordinary books and e-books as regards the possibility of lending?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151055	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151056	It is crucial that citizens have the opportunity to borrow both physical books and e-books. Today it is the case that the lending of e-books is based on agreements between libraries and right-holders, whereas in the case of physical books, it is the case that books can be lent without agreement. It seems that the judgment allows Member States to choose to have rules that allow libraries to lend e-books in the future in the same way as they are currently lending physical books, that is to say. without any agreement with the rightholders. We in the Ministry are assessing the consequences of the judgment, so I cannot tell you exactly what it is about, but I can add that the Court of Justice mentions some guidelines on how to lend e-books, for example. shall not come from illegal sources. When we fully understand the judgment, it will be relevant to consider whether we should change the Danish rules in the light of the judgment. I will discuss this with the cultural rapporteurs, and perhaps it is quite convenient in fact that we have been given that judgment right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151232	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151233	It is gratifying for me to hear that the Minister welcomes the fact that e-books can be borrowed in the same way as printed books. After all, we want to ensure the future of libraries, and I also think the Minister is well aware that some sections of the population who do not borrow books today may begin to do so. After all, we know that there are municipalities in the country that are closing down and reorganising libraries because the municipalities have become larger, so there is a good opportunity here for more people to borrow books. So I'm very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151321	I can hear that we are very much in agreement that there must of course be access to borrow books in one way or another. What makes it a little difficult is that our library money system is based on the fact that you get money per year. It's a book written in the libraries. When it comes to e-books, there is no more than one in each library than it is in the nature of the e-book that you don't need it in several editions, because a lot of people can in principle borrow the same e-book. We need to find a solution to that. What matters is to see it from the public's point of view. They must have the opportunity to borrow books as before, including electronically.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151406	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151407	Thank you. Well, I look forward very much to getting started and finding some good solutions, including on the agreement side. I see that negotiations are now under way with some book publishers. I also look forward to having legislation, including in the area of agreements, so that everyone can borrow audiobooks and e-books in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151432	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151433	Yeah. It is just not certain that things will go off quite quietly, because it is a question of the judgment presumably allowing us to lend e-books without agreement with the right-holders, as is the case with physical books. Perhaps some may object to this at first. So I am not saying that it is slipping into oil, but there is really no way around it if we want to protect the interests of the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151510	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151511	To conclude, I would just like to say that we would like to go the same way, and if that is the way of the agreement, that would be the best way. But I can hear from the Minister that we will find a way to ensure that libraries and citizens who use libraries are also assured of the future, and even more when we get e-books on the shelves.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151532	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151534	Yeah, but I'd like to sign for that. I look forward to some good discussions on the not quite easy subject we have discussed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151544	Thank you to the Minister for Culture and to Mr. Jan Johansen for today's work. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of It's for the Minister of Education and Research, and that's Mr. Knox. Lars Aslan Rasmussen of the Social Democratic Party, who has asked the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151557	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151559	Thank you. Will the Minister state what reasons lie behind the fact that an official shepherd's letter is now being sent to the country's educational institutions in relation to the rental of premises, and what types of persons and associations do the Minister think should not be able to rent in?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151615	Over the past year we have seen several examples of events that have been held or planned to be held in premises at higher education institutions and that have been criticised for not complying with Danish democratic values. I am very concerned when people who should support being part of our society use freedoms instead to undermine Danish society and the values on which we build our society. It is my clear opinion that events held at publicly funded higher education should always be conducted in accordance with Danish democratic values, based on freedom, diversity and respect for constitutional rights. It is against this background that I have written to the rectors of higher education institutions to encourage the institutions to be aware of whether events held in the institutions' premises are compatible with Danish democratic values. I therefore hope that the institutions will pay particular attention to the problem in the future and make their contribution to ensuring that publicly funded educational establishments do not have to set up premises for such events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151739	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151741	Thank you for your answer. I would like to ask the Minister about the latest case, which has been at the educational site of Metropol, where an imam had been allowed to make presentations which had said that apostate Muslims should be killed and slave trade was otherwise in order. Would such a preacher in future be included in what the Minister considers to be contrary to Danish values?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151802	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151806	I would like to ask the Minister again: if an educational institution still places rooms for such an arrangement, does this mean that if you get to know it, the Minister will actually take up the place of education, or should I understand the shepherd's letter as just a recommendation?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151823	The shepherd's letter must be understood as my way of drawing the institutions' attention to the fact that they have an obligation to ensure that public-funded premises are not used to organise such events. And I must confess that I have a clear expectation that attention is now being given to the fact that, as an institution, we should be aware that we also have a responsibility for the values and constitutional rights on which we are building our society and that that responsibility is respected, even in the case of premises which are being asked here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151905	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151906	I would just like to follow up and ask the Minister at the end: will that also mean that the Minister will not see, for example, that there is no such thing as that? are gender-separated arrangements?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151917	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151918	I do not have the opportunity to intervene and say that we must not do so, and we must not do so. It is self-serving institutions that are involved, but it is self-serving institutions that are funded through taxpayers' funds, and that is why I also have an obligation, when something happens that I consider to be contrary to constitutional rights and, in general, respect for the society that we all want to be the Danish society, to point out that in my view institutions of this nature have a particular responsibility. It is in this light that the Shepherd's letter to the institutions should be seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116151958	Thank you, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. The next question is Question 4, and it is put to the Minister for Education and Research by Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party with Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116152008	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116152013	Thank you, sir. President. Does the Minister consider it appropriate to refer to the Minister's statements to TV 2/Øst Jutland on 17 and 18 October 2016 about the 20,000 foreign students in Danish higher education and their guardian campaigns carried out in a number of Eastern European countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116152040	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116152041	The answer could actually be quite brief: no, I do not think that is fair. But I would like to take this opportunity to explain why. Let me therefore repeat what I said in the interview with TV 2/East Jutland: It has never been the intention of the Danish education system or the SU system that we should finance the educational commitment of other countries. The Danish higher education institutions must train students for employment in Denmark. This also applies to Eastern European students and students from other EU countries. The Danish educational institutions should not attract or train the citizens of other EU countries if they are not needed in the Danish labour market. It is a good business, however, if skilled young people from abroad train in Denmark and stay here and find employment when they have completed their education. I have just launched a study on the quality and relevance of the English-language vocational academy courses, and I have decided to extend the study to include the English-language professional bachelor degree programmes. The study is expected to be completed at the beginning of the new year, and I will take a position on what will happen next.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116152204	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116152206	Thank you. I would like to sign for the Minister's reply, and I do not want to say that I am unaware that the Minister has had an answer last week. I am, of course, sorry that the Minister had to bother himself twice in the Chamber for this question. But the reason why I insist on getting it back on is that the government itself has set a maximum in the past, so there must be 5,500 from other EU countries with the right to full SU in Denmark. And if you got over that number, the government would bid in with an extraordinary effort. That was the way it was formulated, I think. When I previously asked the minister some questions about it, the latest figures I think they were from 2015 showed that they had rounded the 5,500. You were actually up to 5,621, and last week you got some numbers saying that 7,600 is the number you have to assume. It means everything else equal that there is an increasing number of especially Eastern European students going to Denmark to get their education where they can get more lucrative conditions than they can in their home countries. It is of course very plausible that the young people go to Denmark, but I think that we should focus on the fact that it also costs money in the end. We can also see that very many of those who then complete education in Denmark, including higher education, actually end up leaving Denmark shortly after they have passed their exams. And it is about 40 per cent who travels out of Denmark again and uses their professional skills in other companies, which can so appropriately compete with Danish companies in the international markets. That is why we in the Danish People's Party have insisted that we want the government and, of course, the minister here today to go a little further than this obvious challenge, as we think it is. I must also say that my speaking time has been gone throughout the whole question, but now it has arrived here, 8 seconds before it ended. I would, of course, like to thank you for the preliminary remark and look forward to the Minister's answer to the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116152411	You can do that by not pressing it. Then it's going really well. But if you don't, it's the minister's turn.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116152420	I would like to sign for the question here, because the questioner has a very important point to make, which I myself consider to be very important. There are many figures that can be thrown around in the air here, but according to the SU agreement, of which Dansk Folkeparti is also a part, we have actually committed each other that if the ceiling is hit, a solution must be found within the SU framework. And much suggests that we are very close to hitting the ceiling agreed back in 2013. One of the things I have been particularly focused on is that the increase among what we call migrant workers has been quite special in vocational education and training. And that is precisely why I have initiated an analysis which is currently being carried out. The aim of the analysis is firstly to see whether the quality of the English-language vocational education and training courses meets the quality requirements that we have, moreover, and secondly to see whether migrant workers, in other words EU citizens who come here, will remain here after training. And unfortunately, there is something that suggests that they are not doing it. However, I would like to have the opportunity to await the completion of the analysis before taking action. But something has to happen. I agree with that, and I have listened that this is what the questioner is actually asking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116152553	Thank you for that thorough answer. That's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116152555	Thank you. Now I'm gonna try to do it without touching the desk, and then I'm gonna recommend getting an electrician to look at the desk by next Wednesday. Moreover, there is still no time left for it, because it is completely red, so I do not know how long my speaking time is. I would like to hear the Minister's comment on the second element, which was also included in, among other things. TV 2's coverage from East Jutland, and it was here that some of the East Jutland educational institutions simply send people on guardian campaigns to various Eastern European countries, and they go to fairs etc. to encourage local students to hurry to travel to Denmark for their education. It is actually very plausible, because we also want Eastern European young people to have a good education, we just do not think that Denmark should pay the full bill. There's this taximeter model, and at each institution you get between DKK 40,000 and DKK 85,000. per Years per year student. What is the Minister going to do about it, because it is obviously cashier's thinking?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116152654	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116152656	Once again, I will refer to the analysis that has been carried out and when we have the result of it, I can assure you that I will use it as a starting point for action in this area. May I not just say that I do not think that education institutions can be blamed for thinking internationally, because in this way a broad majority of the Danish Parliament has asked the whole education sector to do so, because this is a good way of determining whether we have a competitive education system which provides a quality that we can use internationally. So we have an interest in that. However, since we adopted the internationalisation obligations to our education system here in the Folketing, an EU judgment has been passed which means that migrant workers have the opportunity to obtain SU. The 2012 ruling is based on the judgment that there has been a sharp increase in the number of migrant workers seeking mainly the English-language vocational academies. And that's where we're gonna go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116152759	For information purposes, it is technically the case that the President stands up 10 seconds before the time has elapsed, whether it is the Minister or the questioner who is speaking. Now we are giving the floor to the co-questioner, and that is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116152813	Thank you very much. After all, the minister himself mentions that there is an agreement from an SU settlement back in 2013, where you were just aware of this problem and set limits on how much money this SU could cost. At that time, the agreement was that if it came to more than 420 million. kr., it was too much. I can see from the memo sent out by the Ministry last week that it is expected that the cost this year will be in the order of 420 million. kr., and that in a year's time it will be 1⁄2 billion. kr. In other words, there will be an overflow and, according to the agreement we have, I have the expectation that the Minister will actively take steps to ensure that fewer people will come here. I hear the Minister wants them to stay here, but basically we need to get fewer people here to keep the agreement we have from 2013. I would therefore like to know whether the Minister has made any real efforts to ensure that there will be significantly fewer SU students next year as migrant workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116152914	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116152915	Thank you very much for the question. In addition to what I have already answered about the analysis of vocational education and Bachelor's degree programmes, I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that the government has presented a proposal for the reorganization of our SU in order to make our SU system more robust. It is also a question of what we are discussing here, namely to ensure that it is not our SU system that draws on if I may use the expression "so that we do not have an SU system which is so attractive that young people travel from the other end of Europe to come to Denmark to take a free education with SU." We have to do something about this, and that is why we have proposed that we approach other countries in the way we have arranged our SU, so that it is certainly not the only reason why we go to Denmark. But it is good to hear that the Danish People's Party is also concerned about ensuring that we are not a magnet forward-looking for that reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116153019	The enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116153020	We are certainly very, very concerned about this, and that is why I am also concerned about the Minister's reply. And I would say that I am not entirely convinced that the change to the SU system to which the Minister refers is going to have any real effect. The note refers to the fact that it will look like Norwegian conditions, and I do not know if the Minister imagines that half of the students will go to Norway instead of going to Denmark. That would, of course, reduce the number that comes here, but if it does not happen if there are no fewer, then I would like to ask the Minister if the proposal that has been made on the amendment of the SU system contains the fact that money has to be withdrawn from the SU system to cover this. For the 100 million. kr., we will be missing next year, of course, must be taken within the SU framework under the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116153105	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116153106	There were several elements here. In other words, I have to refer again to the analysis of the vocational and professional bachelor's degree programmes, because I believe that a large part of the solution lies there. We have an English-language offer of the training which migrant workers are primarily seeking, and that is why we need to look at exactly that supply. However, I would like to ask you to wait for the analysis to be carried out before any concrete response to action is called for. But the SU part is, of course, a change that I am not a second in doubt about will help us to have a more robust and future-proof SU system. And good to hear, as I said, that the Danish People's Party is also concerned that in the future we should have a good SU system, an SU system that is robust and that we can maintain forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116153201	Then we go back to the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116153208	I note that the Minister mentioned the word robustly four times, I think, in relation to the change in the SU system, which the Minister and the Minister's party and the government etc. I'm gonna go upstairs. I'm gonna go upstairs. I'm gonna go upstairs. And there I think it might be possible to say that if it is proposed that there should be more loans and less aid, then perhaps we can call it robust • it is a word to use • but we can also say that it is getting worse. There we in the Danish People's Party think that it may be a little too bad that in principle the Danish SU begins to erode in order to make it less attractive to foreign students, when at the same time it also becomes less attractive to Danish students. But I would like to hear the Minister very briefly about the part of the teaching that is being done in English, the English language teaching. Why will the Minister not just go in and offer fewer lessons with English-language teaching, because then the foreign students would either not understand what was said in the teaching or they would find another country to receive their teaching in?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116153304	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116153306	But that is exactly what I have tried to respond to several times now, namely that we are carrying out an analysis of the supply of the English-language vocational education and Bachelor's degree programmes in order to see whether they meet the qualitative requirements that we are making of our degree programmes and whether the foreign students who complete the courses will also stay in Denmark. It is precisely in order to see whether we need to adjust the supply, and by this I mean whether there are some offers that we simply should not have forward-looking, because they are not training for the Danish labour market, but rather training young people who may come here for free training with SU. And as I started by saying, it was never meant to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116153356	I would like to thank you for the very thorough questions and the thorough answers to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby and Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. The Minister for Education and Research has the great happiness that there are several questions, namely Question 5 from Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116153415	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116153416	Thank you very much. I would like to ask: does the Minister believe that it will improve our level of education and society's usefulness of qualified labour to prevent students from taking so-called double education?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116153432	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116153433	Not surprisingly, even for Enhedslisten, politics is of course about priorities, and for the government a safer benefit system is more important than the opportunity to take, excuse me, an extra education at the same or lower level. At the same time, it is essential for me to create a better match between higher education and the needs of companies and society. The agreement on the limitation of dual education between the government, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party neither improves nor weakens the overall level of education in Denmark. It is important for me to stress that in Denmark we have free and equal access to education and that, moreover, we are among the countries that invest most in each student. We in the government want to maintain that. However, we must constantly work to spend taxpayers' money as best we can. In 2014, more than 2,200 people took two fully state-funded courses. It's expensive for society. I think it makes sense for anyone who has the skills and desire to do so to be able to have a higher education that is financed from tax. That's not gonna change the deal. The agreement limits the scope of dual training, but there will still be the possibility of double training in certain specific cases. For example, are you... In this context, it should be noted that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations has not yet been adopted. This is also the case if you choose an education where companies are particularly in need of labour, in other words an area where there is very low unemployment. Anyone with a desire and qualifications for it can also continue to train to a higher level, and there are also still good opportunities for everyone to be trained and continuously trained. The agreement doesn't change that either. The agreement allows us to spend the money on a safer benefit system and more quality in education. And now I see that, unfortunately, the President has already got up, so I'd better sit down.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116153656	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116153657	I believe that we should be able to find the money to patch up the problems of the benefit system rather more solidarity than by cutting back on training. What worries me here is that a large number of organisations have also been out to say that they actually need people taking these double training courses. It may be educators or nurses, for example. become social workers. I think that is very sensible. These are building designers, for example. can become an engineer or architect • a super good training, which the labour market is very, very happy about now. It's also being prevented by this deal you've made. It may be teachers in the future, or people who, for example, are not. have a university education and have no opportunity to change their mind and become a teacher or a nurse........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I simply cannot understand the government's wish to close that down. Nor can I understand that the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party are involved in this. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister: has anyone ever listened to the many organizations that have been out saying that this is going to cause problems in our labour market and that it is going to give a more inflexible educational system that these training combinations will not be applicable in the future? When I read the agreement, it does not seem to me as if that criticism was made in relation, for example, to. construction designers, nurses, etc., is something that has been listened to at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116153835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116153837	Then I have to say that the questioner has not really read the agreement very carefully. As far as building designers are concerned, there is a very special element in the agreement, and money has actually been set aside for us to identify the dead ends where we cannot train to a higher level. Because, of course, we must have the opportunity to do so. For example, if there are dead ends, there are also other places. construction designers for engineers, well, funds have been set aside for it. Then I would just like to say about nurses: there I think the questioner has clearly misunderstood or perhaps is not aware of what the situation really is. Because if you take someone who has a teacher training course into nursing training, there will be no more nurses trained for that reason. So when the questioner says it is an education that society needs, then the answer is: yes, it is. But it is also an education that is dimensioned because that education consists of large parts of practical training. This means that there must be an internship, and that is something that is agreed with the regions. No more nurses are trained by double training.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116153950	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116153952	Now I am addressing it because the Danish Nursing Council itself has been out complaining very much that this agreement is being made. You have both regretted that for example. a university graduate cannot retrain himself to become a nurse, and also that nurses do not get the opportunities for e.g. to become social workers. I think that is a criticism that should have been listened to much more than has been done. Another thing that worries me in this proposal is that, as I see it now, there will also be a large number of training courses which you do not have any clarity as to whether you can get. The government says that you have to pay for yourself if you want to have a combination education... then you have to pay for the second education yourself. But it's the way I see it, in that you have to talk about it. I would like to hear: are there not a number of training combinations that will not be taken as payment training at this stage?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116154049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116154051	I would like to start by saying that politics is about priorities, and for me it is a sensible priority for the tax dollars that we have at our disposal, so that we do not use tax dollars to train at the same level. But I can hear that Enhedslisten does not agree with that, and I am not surprised by it. For me, as I have said, it is about managing taxpayers' money as sensibly and wisely as possible. So for the part-time payment. There is no change in those parts of the education sector where there is now the possibility of training with a contribution to participation, i.e. part-time training. The agreement here does not change that. There will be exactly the same options and there will be exactly the same payment as before. There are absolutely no changes to the part of the education system justified by the agreement here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116154153	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116154154	But that must also mean that there will be a number of training courses which will no longer be able to combine if we do not change the structure of which courses can be taken with payment. Because there are a large number of training courses now, which are not payment courses. I would like the Minister to confirm this. Finally, I would like to say that no, it is not our policy in the Enhedslisten that we should reduce the possibility of having a flexible education system. That is exactly what the government unfortunately does here, together with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, namely that the possibility of having a good and flexible put together education is, in fact, precisely limited. I think that's super awkward.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116154237	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116154238	I do not agree with the latter. I still believe that we have one of the world's very best education systems, where there are a great many opportunities, both in terms of changing paths along the way, and also in terms of having progression all the way through the education system. If there are dead ends, we must, of course, have them identified and dealt with them. I am aware that no more dead ends have arisen through the agreement here, apart from what I mentioned earlier on on building designers. So I would like to say about the nursing training that I know there is no possibility of having part-time training for nurses, but, as I mentioned earlier, nursing training is also dependent on there being an internship so that one could be able to take an internship. If you get a place in nursing school, you'd displace someone else. No more nurses would be trained for that reason. So again, I will return to the first part of my answer, namely that it is about priorities of our tax dollars.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116154351	Thank you. We shall move on to the next question with the same presentation: the Minister for Education and Research and Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116154359	The questioner can read out his question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116154401	Well, speaking of priorities, I would like to ask: does the Minister believe that it is responsible to continue with billion cuts in education over the coming year and the years after?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116154414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116154415	Thank you for the question. I believe that the tasks can be done smarter and cheaper in all parts of the public sector, including in the field of education. Among other things, it can be done. by digitalisation, by changing workflows and by making better use of the buildings. Therefore, the re-prioritisation contribution of the educational institutions is included in the Finance Act for 2016. It also equates training with other parts of the State, where there is also a re-priority contribution. I think it is responsible to demand of ourselves that we spend taxpayers' money as efficiently as possible. Our investment in education is also responsible. This year and next year we expect to spend more money than ever on higher education. Actually, we're spending 35%. more in higher education than we did in 2008. Our higher education is based on a strong research and evidence base. Here, in the OECD context, we are at the top, and it is actually ambitious to invest 1%. of GDP in research, from an international point of view. I am therefore confident that the institutions will continue to offer high-quality training. In the draft Finance Act, the Government envisages that the re-prioritisation contribution will be adopted for 2017 and that there will be a technical continuation of the re-prioritisation contribution in 2018 and up to 2020. However, solving the current tasks more effectively does not prevent investment in new initiatives. The government has just agreed five targeted initiatives with the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party to strengthen higher education, and this is an agreement that stems from what we have just discussed, namely the limitation of dual education. In connection with that agreement, we have among other things. agreed to create a quality pool for higher education. In the 2025 plan, the government is also proposing that we establish a pool of competences, which will consist of 1 billion. kr. Every year, and these are both responsible and forward-looking priorities on the part of the government as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116154643	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116154645	But what has happened in the field of education is very, very violent. The government has decided to cut 8.7 billion on education. It began last year, and this year it is planned to be cut twice as much as it was last year and the years to come even more. I have to say that we can see that this has already meant massive layoffs in high schools and in professional colleges. We are faced with the fact that one in ten of the teachers who are to train our future teachers and educators and nurses are simply being fired. We can see that there are subjects, for example. In particular, the language subjects which are being closed down in the universities and that there will be less education. We get almost daily, I think, new reports on problems at DTU. Students tell, for example, that there is no room in the laboratories and that this extends their study time. At KUA it is the trade library that is now closed. For me and most others, I think it is obvious that these very, very severe billion cuts are a disaster for our education system. I have to say that I think it seems decoupled from reality that the Minister is pretending that this can be resolved by more efficient administration or by saving the buildings. I have to say that it is quite simply irresponsible to close one's eyes to the problems that one is helping to create. That is why I would very much like to ask the Minister once again: is there any prospect that the government will stop these cuts and is there anyone besides the government who thinks it is a good idea to cut back on education and research?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116154826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116154827	As I mentioned in the reply, in our draft budget we have continued the re-prioritisation contribution for 2017, and we have also put it into the budget years 2018 and until 2020. So when the questioner asks whether there is any prospect of it ending, the answer is no. We have chosen precisely to continue with it, and this is linked to some of what I mentioned in my previous reply, namely that politics is priorities. I have not heard Enhedslisten complain that a new cancer plan has been established or that health care has been provided at all 2.2 billion. kr. and the area of the elderly 1 billion. kr. etc. etc. So I could, if I had to, ask Enhedslisten: Where should the money come from? Where will the money come from for all the good things that Enhedslisten will? I clearly sense that at least we do not have the courage to take the decisions that are necessary to provide resources for other core welfare areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116154938	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116154940	I hope that the Minister has heard Enhedslisten say that we do not want tax cuts to the very richest Danes, that we did not want to change the inheritance tax for companies, that we do not want to remove the PRS tax, that we did not support the housing job scheme, that we do not want tax reductions to buy more luxury cars. These are some of the places I think it would make really, really good sense to bring in money that we could use for education. I would like to ask the Minister again: does anyone at all agree with the government that it is a good idea to cut back on education and research?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116155018	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116155019	On the other hand, I can ask Mrs Flyvholm whether there are at all 90 mandates to say yes to what Mrs Flyvholm says here. No, there isn't. Fortunately, there is a responsible majority here in the Danish Parliament who is fully aware that Denmark must of course be a competitive society. Otherwise, the growth in Danish society will suffer, and growth is the prerequisite for us also to be able to provide resources for education and research. That's exactly what the government's policy is about. It is about freeing up resources to invest in the future. That is what our 2025 plan is about: how can we become a richer society? And, of course, this will also be reflected in the education and research sector, where we will earmark 1 billion. kr. in the form of a pool of competences, which is intended precisely for some of what Mrs Flyvholm is calling for.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116155110	Then it is the questioner for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116155112	But I can see that the Minister simply cannot come up with anyone who has supported this policy of cutting back on education and research. And that fits very well with the picture I have of it, namely that students, students, parents, institutions, Danish business, Danish Industry, have all been out criticizing these massive cuts, and I think it is so critical that the government does not take note of it. And then we have to say: no, we do not have 90 mandates right now to pick up the money on tax concessions and luxury cars and the places I think it is necessary, but I certainly hope that we will get that soon so that the government cannot continue with these catastrophic cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116155154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116155155	As far as the Finance Act for 2016 is concerned, it is of course a majority in the Folketing that has adopted it. We are currently discussing the 2017 Finance Act, and I have no opportunity to respond, all the time the negotiations are going on here and now, how it lands. However, the government's objective is to continue the re-priority contribution. I can also draw the attention of Mrs Flyvholm to the fact that the Social Democratic Party, led by Mrs Mette Frederiksen, that is to say the party from which Enhedslisten will point to the Prime Minister's candidate, has listened to me, not in their proposals on how Danish society should develop, has suggested that the re-priority contribution should be removed. So there is some indication that the government, at least the majority constellation, of which Enhedslisten is a part, will continue the re-prioritisation contribution, because at least there has been no indication that it will be financed by means of the removal of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116155257	Thank you, Mrs Flyvholm, for today's work. The Minister for Education and Research is very popular today, she has several questions, also Question 7, and the questioner is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116155305	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116155313	Thank you. Does the Minister consider it reasonable to maintain Article 30 of the University Law on building roads when there is no real possibility that universities can obtain ownership?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116155323	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116155324	The answer could actually be yes, and then I could sit down, but I will explain my yes. The reason is that the government has no plans to amend Section 30 of the University Act. The principle of dealing with a request for building roads on the basis of a concrete assessment seems to me to be sound and important. The questioner's premise that there is no real possibility must stand at the author's own expense. The government has refused Copenhagen University's application on the basis of a concrete balance of advantages and disadvantages for both the state and the University of Copenhagen on building roads. A concrete assessment of an application for building roads will also focus on, inter alia: the economic and management implications of a transfer of buildings both for the State and for the institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116155435	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116155437	Thank you. The Minister is, of course, quite right that the reason why I am asking the question is the course of action which has taken place with regard to the University of Copenhagen. When I ask, it is also because I have asked the Minister in writing, and there I have received this reply on section 30: under the University Act, a university has the possibility to transfer state buildings upon request. A request from the university will be subject, if necessary, to a specific assessment and a possible transfer would, as a starting point, be cost-neutral for the State. The conditions laid down by a possible transfer would have to be approved by the granting authorities. I also know that the other universities are looking at the University of Copenhagen to see what the real possibility is. And when I ask, it is of course about the fact that, as far as the University of Copenhagen is concerned, I have found it difficult to see the real reason why they have not been given an opportunity. I am not saying anything about how things should have been and how the offer should have been, but it could have been said that it should have been cost-neutral and that it should be on these terms and conditions, and then the University of Copenhagen would have been able to assess whether they wanted to have that opportunity. Of course, I also ask a little on behalf of the other universities who might want to apply and who can see how this process has taken more than two years to find out that it was not possible for the University of Copenhagen to do so. And if that is not really an option, then I think we should remove section 30. 2. If this is really an option, I would ask the Minister to elaborate on what would be the difference between the University of Copenhagen and the other universities which I hear the Minister in this way think should be able to have the possibility of self-determination if they made a request to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116155622	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116155623	But the short part of the long term is that the advantages and disadvantages are of course weighed down, and in terms of the advantages and disadvantages, there is of course also seen in the state as a whole • thus the advantages and disadvantages that would be associated with an institution such as the University of Copenhagen. After careful consideration, we have come to the conclusion that this was not what we wanted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116155654	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116155656	Then I'll just notice that the Minister says that you don't want that. Because it may be at the heart of this, namely that you did not want the University of Copenhagen to have its own right and that it is not a real assessment of what opportunities there were and what a model might look like. That is why, of course, I am also worried, because if others make an application, it may well end up in the fact that they do not want to give themselves. That is why I would like to ask the Minister whether he really wants some universities to be given ownership if they made a request for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116155729	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116155730	Well, of course I would refer to the legislation, and the legislation says that when you apply for it, there will be an assessment, and that assessment must take into account both the advantages and the disadvantages. In the specific situation that has taken place, it has been found that the desire for self-sufficiency was not met. It's actually quite complex. There are many elements that need to be assessed, but it is the whole that is crucial. And the overall assessment was so that you don't want it. Whether or not the same will apply to other applicants, I do not have an earthly chance to answer because, as I have said, this is a rather complex procedure which is the basis of the final decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116155819	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116155820	I'm having a little trouble understanding this. I know that the University of Copenhagen is very large and that there are very many buildings. Of course, there are a great many things that need to be taken into account if you are to have the self-righteousness. But we do have a great many other types of institution in this country that has its own ownership, and I do not have the impression that this is a major problem. That is why it worries me a little when it comes to ending up in the fact that you don't want to give yourself. For the paragraph itself provides for a request; there may be some conditions for it to be obtained; and then it can be decided whether it should be done or not. So with the answer I get today, I still hear that it is not a real possibility for the other universities, although, of course, according to the paragraph, they have the opportunity formally.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116155905	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116155906	I have to say that it was a conclusion that must stand at the author's own expense. Because that's certainly not what I said. I replied precisely that I could answer about the application that has been made, but that I do not have an earthly chance of responding in relation to applications that have not taken place. However, I am, of course, referring to the legislation, and the legislation allows us to ask for the right to self-determination. I and the government wish to maintain that possibility in the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116155938	Thank you. The question is closed. We shall now turn to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Education and Research by Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116155945	I give the floor to the author to read the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116155951	Thank you. Why does the Minister consider it unnecessary for disabled young people in vocational training to have the possibility of disability allowances when the Minister considers it appropriate and necessary for disabled young people in higher education, cf. the Minister's reply to UFU, Alm. Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène 190?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116160007	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116160008	Thank you. Thank you for the question. In fact, I very much understand that conducting a study for students with disabilities can be a challenge. The government is very concerned that students with disabilities have good opportunities to complete an education. The SU disability allowance is aimed at students with disabilities who go to higher education and have significant limitations on the ability to take up employment. The SU disability allowance is intended to compensate for the lack of income from work which other students may have. The student can, among other things: use the income from the disability allowance to pay rent, food, etc. Students in upper secondary education generally do not have the same cost to self-employed households as students in higher education. Youth education, including vocational training, is offered far more places than higher education. This reduces the need to leave home and establish your own more expensive household. In addition to SU, there is the possibility of special educational support in both upper secondary and higher education. Special educational support can compensate far along the way for the difficulties individual students have in conducting the study. Students with functional impairments in upper secondary education have also continued to be able to obtain support in the cash assistance system. Finally, I would like to mention that the main objective of the SU disability allowance has been to abolish the so-called double admission for students with disabilities in higher education. In the past, students with disabilities who could not cope with the ordinary SU had to meet two requirements. On the one hand, the general requirements for admission to higher education had to be met, for which the municipality's discretionary requirements for study suitability and the possibility of subsequent employment and self-reliance had to be met. This dual admission was abolished with the introduction of the current rules for the SU disability allowance for higher education students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116160217	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116160218	Thank you for your answer. I am also very pleased that double entry was abolished and the system simplified. This has been of great benefit to many disabled people. But when I ask this question, it is really a wonder what the difference is between a young disabled person who goes on vocational training and higher education respectively. The Minister says in his reply, including the written answer, and now also mentions that there are youth education in many places and answers: which reduces the need to leave home and establish a more expensive household. I fully understand that there are probably far, far fewer young people in vocational training with disabilities who have this need. But I do not really see why it should change the needs of the individual, the individual young people who, for various reasons, have to leave home and so just want to have vocational training instead of taking a higher education. Why should the young person be placed at a disadvantage than the young person in higher education? The Minister also answers that pupils in youth education generally do not have the same cost of self-employed household as students in higher education. But if you do not live at home, whether you are in vocational training or in higher education, the student will have that. So I think it remains for the Minister to explain what the difference is between the young person who chooses one education and the young person who chooses the other education and why there should actually be different rules for the SU that you can get and whether you can get the disability allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116160355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116160356	As I pointed out in the answer to this question, the disability allowance was introduced for higher education. What the questioner refers to here is youth education, and there is another set of rules which I also examined in the answer, where there are opportunities for special educational support, and there are also opportunities within the cash assistance system. It has been a balance in its time that it wanted to focus on higher education and precisely to remove the double admission for higher education students.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116160438	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116160440	I'm sorry, but I don't think I'm quite getting the answer to what I'm asking. Because it is true that we can talk about higher education and vocational training, and there is a different history of how this has now arisen. But what I am really trying to ask the Minister to do is that if you are young with disabilities, but you want to have an education we would like the young person with disabilities to take an education and then you can choose a higher education and then you can get disability allowances to compensate for the work you cannot take. But if you choose a vocational training course, you cannot get that disability allowance. What's the difference between the two kids?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116160518	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116160519	The difference is that there are opportunities in other parts of the legislation for one, and the other is then covered by the disability allowance in the SU legislation. There are opportunities within the cash assistance system, and unfortunately I am not in a position to explain this because it is not legislation that falls within my remit. But I'm aware that there are opportunities within the cash assistance system. Then there are opportunities for special educational support, which, of course, is also available to young people seeking training.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116160557	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116160558	Well, it's nice if there are other options. I'd like to dig in those, too. But still away: we have a common agenda in which we would like to say that vocational training is just as worthy of recognition as higher education, and we have young people who go on one type of education and the other type of education. Then I don't understand why we don't equate them. If we now say that they are equally worthwhile, and if we can now see that the challenges and costs must be the same, regardless of whether you choose one or the other education, why should they not have the same economic conditions? And so again: why could it not be said that this is really right, and we must do so; we must ensure that young people in vocational training can also receive the disability allowance?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116160639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116160640	So, in my very best memory, I think I remember that the same rules apply to young people in high school, that is, that it is youth education which is covered by the rules that I am trying to describe here for young people in vocational training. So it is not the case that there is a particularly unique exclusion of young people who opt for vocational training. No, it is upper secondary education where the disability allowance is for students in higher education.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116160718	The question is closed. We thank the Minister and the questioner. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 9 to the Minister for Transport and Building by Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116160728	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116160729	Thank you, sir. President. What is the Minister's view that there has now again been flooding at Elling Å and that the problem that caused the floods in October 2014 has not been resolved, namely that the gap in the road underpass at the A40 highway is far too small to lead the water away, so that there is a mood of the water, thereby flooding large parts of Elling city, and what will the Minister take of initiatives in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116160755	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116160759	Thank you for the question. I would say that as Minister for Transport and Building I am neither master of the weather nor of the municipality's initiatives, but since the Road Directorate really owns the bridge over Elling Å, I have obtained information from them. As I have been informed, this is not the first time there has been flooding at Elling Å. In fact, it happened 2 years ago, and this is obviously not acceptable, and therefore the municipality went into dialogue with the Road Directorate, which owns the bridge over Elling Å, so that a sensible solution to the problem could be found together. The municipality establishes dikes along the stream, where there are warning systems that warn when the water level becomes critical. The construction of the dikes began this year, and when much rain came on 6 November, the dikes were half finished. The water stood up to a few centimeters below the bridge, and it turned out that the dikes were holding even though they weren't quite finished, and that was good. The warning systems also worked, and you could in time obtain additional pumps from the Emergency Board. When the water level gets so high that the area is flooded and the water is thus above the bridge, it risks becoming a stop-block, and the Road Directorate is aware of that, and indeed the municipality is also aware of that. That is why there is a dialogue on how this can be resolved. In the short term, the Vejdirektoratet establishes some steel screens on the upstream side of the bridge, which are connected to the dikes, so that the water cannot run towards Elling, and that is certainly good. The water must continue to be pumped over the road, which is being blocked, and that is how it has to be. One solution in the long term may be to raise the bridge, and perhaps that is what the questioner is a little chasing here. It is now examining the Road Directorate's costs, and I will, when I get an overall assessment from the Road Directorate, decide what we can do. But here and now Elling should not be flooded, and the incident on 6 November has just shown that we are going to make it for the time being. The Road Directorate also tells me that there is a good dialogue with the municipality of Frederikshavn in this matter, so I hope that will bring a solution with which we can all be served.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116161006	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116161007	Thank you, and thank you for your answer. When the dikes have lasted and nothing else has happened here some time ago, it is certainly not due to the Road Directorate, the State or the Minister. Because nothing has been done since 2014. It is true that the landowners have done a whole lot and that the municipality has done a whole lot, but the only ones left to do is the state. The State and the Road Directorate can move out even if they have not been called upon to do so. We saw this a year ago, when half the way across the viaduct was painted at the railroad. So you can take initiatives, but here it is completely lacking. I would also like to say that in 2014 it was a disaster. For so much rainfall came in such a short time that huge areas of Vendsyssel were flooded and it would have remedied it if it were that the hole had become somewhat larger. So, besides raising the bridge and everything else, couldn't you just make a hole next door? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116161107	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116161110	Now I was actually trying to be a little sympathetic to the questioner, but I would nevertheless like to point out to the questioner that, unfortunately, I was not the Transport Minister in 2014 or even in the spring of 2015, because something could have been done, whereas I have done what I thought I could myself, namely to have it examined here, and look at how we are doing it. I don't see how you solve it by going in and doing it with the hole. I think we need to look first at what comes from explanations and I am quite sure that we will not even have to go very far into the new year until we have an estimate on it. I would like to say to the questioner that I think it might be a good idea for us to exchange a few words on this and then the questioner can come over to me and then we can discuss what this case looks like, but I have to get that knowledge first. But I understand there's that frustration in the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116161201	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116161202	Well, I thank the Minister for Transport for the dialogue, and sometimes we also see the Minister in the area. And there maybe we could just stop by the bridge and look at what options there are. There are probably others who have a lot of good suggestions. I am well aware of the history, when the Minister has been Minister, etc., and who was responsible. I'm just wondering that when you made a report about what you could do about that water up there, you didn't even mention that problem at all. I have also mentioned this at the conciliation meeting. What do you do about it, and the bridge is therefore the responsibility of the state, i.e. also how to direct the water out. I know that the current Minister for Transport has also been Minister for the Environment. We've been trying to make water plans, etc. What happened up there is a disaster. Well, you try to keep the water back in the fields. Here it gets mixed with sewer water and everything, and it gets led into the sea at once. So, in addition to the traffic and floods, there is also a huge environmental problem for which I think the government has a responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116161301	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116161302	It happens sometimes that the questioner and I find some solution to one thing. I think we're gonna get to this, too. Only in the new year will the Vejdirektoratet deliver the figures, and then let us meet about it, and it may also require a visit. It is true that I am also very fond of coming to North Jutland, from which the questioner himself is from, i.e. that region. So let's take a look at it when we get up there. Let's make that deal, 'cause I'd like to see it when we make it. Because I think we can get into a situation where we have to do something that works better. But I'd like to see the numbers first. Let's take a look at it, because I think it can help to create a better clarity.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116161342	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116161343	I thank you for the commitment and put water over to coffee and squeeze a sandwich together. Because that is the problem: there is a great deal of sandwich construction. But no matter what, this has to be solved. I would also like to ask the Minister to address the next obstacle that lies out there, namely the Skagensvejen. There's also a subway there. We need to find a solution so that, as has been the case in the past, where the water cannot be squeezed out from the sea, but so that the water that comes can naturally flow out without us having these floods that cause the people there trouble, for the pilots and which cause the environmental problems that it creates afterwards. I'd like to know if the Minister will take it all in the same round. After all, he has previously promised an extension of the Skagensvejen. So there is a basis for a visit to North Jutland. I hope the Minister will agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116161433	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116161434	Well, what I have been asking here is that the Road Directorate will only come with a total construction price in the new year for the raising of the bridge construction and the adjacent part of Skagensvej, so that it is ready in the new year. It is clear that I have now heard the question, and of course it is natural that we should include the second part when we are looking at it anyway. I don't know, but I don't know. Bjarne Laustsen well promised something. But I promised you we'd check it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116161505	The question is closed. Thank you to the questioner. We shall continue with the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Transport and Building. That's by Mr. Keating. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116161515	I give the floor to the author. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116161518	Thank you. I have to read out: Will the Minister help to promote a small extra trail or shunt at Hjørring, so that freight trains from the new freight train terminal at Hirtshals Harbour can travel smoothly and efficiently across the country without disturbing and delaying passenger traffic?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116161535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116161537	Thank you for the question. Extension of railway capacity in North Jutland to promote freight traffic and, moreover, local passenger traffic is a project in the Togfonden DK. I'm just saying for those who weren't supposed to know, we need to get the history straight, and as you know, the government isn't included in the Train Fund DK. However, the government agrees that the project in North Jutland is important. This is why it is also one of the projects which the government gives priority to, although the Train Fund DK and I just have to say that is underfinanced by approx. 15 billion kr., and that means that not everything will get through. Now funds have already been allocated to the government's financial bill for capacity expansion on the Hirtshalsbane, and for that money Nordjyske Railways will, among other things, be. establish a new crossroads between Hirtshals and Hjørring. It must be ready for use in 2017 and in the long term, at least in the short term, will allow better traffic flow for freight trains. In addition, projects to promote capacity and regularity on the Banedanmarkstring between Hjørring and Aalborg are also being examined. This corresponds to what the Conciliation Committee of the Togfonden DK agreed at the time. That is also what will happen here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116161646	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116161648	Thank you very much to the Minister for Transport for his always educational and informative presentation. That's a good thing. I know very well about the history. I myself have been involved in negotiating the Danish Railway Fund. I think this is a strong vision for the future railroad. What we need if traffic on the roads is not to be true in queues and congestion is that more people take the train, and there is no doubt that the Train Fund DK will be a very important and big step in the right direction because we get electrified because we have rail upgrades so that we can get faster and better trains, which will both benefit passengers, but also goods. Because if we do not get electrified, it will be less that you will see freight trains going to drive. When we drive on the motorway, we can see how much need there is for some of the many trucks that drive there to be replaced, perhaps with more running on the railway, where it does not slow down traffic for others and creates congestion and annoyingly lost time. I know the history very well. When you made the railroad terminal in Hirtshals, and when you set aside money for expansion and other things, you have not paid sufficient attention to this and it can happen to even the best of us that there may be some lack of capacity, which means that some of the railway capacity that Nordjyske Railways will be used to transport passengers will collide with the fact that at these times you also have a ferry that docks, and then you have to have some goods down through the country. Further rail capacity is then needed, and I am not sure that the crossroads mentioned by the Minister are sufficient. There is a need for an extra small piece of railroad inside Hjørring, actually where Nordjyske Railroads have their workshop. Here's an opportunity to drive by. I very much hope that the Minister, in dialogue with the rest of us, will take a look at this. At the moment, therefore, it is the Minister who is the minister, and although he chooses to stand outside of conciliation and other matters, it is the Minister's position that I am listening to here, because at least we are very happy to take part from the Socialist side in resolving this challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116161903	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116161905	Yes, yes, but if I am doing something similar to what the conciliation group behind the Togfonden DK agreed at the time, then I do not think it can be said that I am not living up to it either. The improvements on the Hirtshalsbane are finished already in 2017, and let's see how they are going to work. Then there is the string between Aalborg and Hjørring, and it is assumed that a decision will be taken on the precise implementation of the projects in the spring of 2017. Practical implementation will have to await the introduction of the new signal programme on the line and a test period of at least one year. The improvements between Aalborg and Hjørring can therefore only be completed around 2020. At least it's kind of in place with the time intervals. Then I would like to say on the question of whether we could try to talk about it, that I would like to say with the train fund circle. Now we're gonna talk about a few other things, too. We had a discussion the other day. Then we can take it with us on that occasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116162005	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116162007	Again, I would like to thank the Minister for his approach. It is true that there are many and great challenges in creating a more up-to-date rail system. It would also be strange other when you have such great ambitions as you have had in relation to this. So there are some bumps on the road, if you may say so, so we must solve that together. However, I am pleased that the Minister will also take a look at this in relation to the particular challenges of Northern Jutland. In connection with a visit to North Jutland, will the Minister possibly be interested in meeting with Hirtshals Harbour and the freight railway operators who may be in order to talk about the challenges that are and, in cooperation with them, identify what is of the challenges and what new challenges we expect will come, even if we make the improvements we are making with Togfonden DK?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116162053	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116162055	Well, I think that sounds like a good idea. There was a questioner just before, who also had a project in North Jutland, and since I would like to come there and, incidentally, I would like to get around the country a lot, I certainly think it could be a good idea. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116162109	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116162113	I'll sign for that, thank you very much for that. We're gonna have to try to set up a meeting like this. Now, when we talk about these challenges, there is an area that has not been talked about so much, but which will also mean something in relation to freight transport down through Jutland, and that is the existing railway bridge for trains. There we had a terrible story here 11⁄2-2 years ago, where it had been set up, and then you got the bridge restored, and now it's finished and is in full operation, even with a bike path on it. However, some of these freight lane operators are in demand, that at some point in the future they may be in 5, 10, 15 or 20 years' time they will have an extra track made on that railroad bridge. Is that something the Minister has thought about? Is this something that the Minister might want to look at: an increase in railway capacity over Limfjorden?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116162208	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116162210	Well, it's kind of connected, isn't it? Because if you had to build a shuttle, that is to say a completely new connecting track from the Hirtshalsbane directly to the Hjørring-Aalborg route, it would be a very expensive project. Now I hear it may be that this is a little different. I think we should look at it when I get up there anyway; then I'd rather speak when I've seen it. It's the kind of working method I have good experience with.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116162235	The question is closed. Thank you to the questioner. We move on to the next question put to the Minister for Business and Growth by Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116162245	I give the floor to the author. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116162247	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that from the consumer's point of view it is reasonable that, with the introduction of Paragraph 10, paragraph 10, it should be observed that Article 10 of the Treaty does not apply. In the future, will there be even more requests from businessmen who have not been requested by consumers to contact particular customers in the proposed new marketing law?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116162313	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116162315	Thank you for the question. This gives me the opportunity to make two points at the outset. Paragraph 1: The proposed amendment to § 10 (1) 2, doesn't mean "and it's important to say "not" that traders must send advertisements to consumers who haven't asked for them themselves. And it is also important to say that it must therefore be based on a misunderstanding. And point 2: I certainly think it is right that we should set up the rules on e-mail advertising in such a way that consumers can receive the advertisements they want. The Government, with the bill that we have recently dealt with first here in the Folketing, proposes a more logical interpretation of § 10, page 2. The provision provides a framework for a trader to place himself on the market by e-mail with the name of his or her equivalent products in relation to consumers who have consented to receive advertising emails from the trader. The current interpretation of the rules is so narrow that it has no practical relevance and we have therefore chosen to change it and, among other things, to change it. do so on the basis of what I also said at first reading of the legislative proposal. Let me give you an example of this, perhaps to make it even clearer: as the rule is today, the trader can send advertising emails to the consumer about a car which is similar to the car that the consumer has bought, but no advertising emails can be sent about, for example. winter tyres or other accessories for the car. The Government has therefore proposed that in future it should be the expectations created by the trader from the consumer that determine what must be advertised. The trader may, for example: create an expectation of wanting to send advertising emails about its entire range by directly informing it, or if it is otherwise clear from the context. In practice, this means that if a consumer buys a car and agrees to receive advertising mail from the dealer, the consumer can reasonably expect to receive e-mails concerning the other products which are also sold by the dealers, such as: winter tyres or, for that matter, coolant.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116162515	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116162518	The reductions which are now being proposed are not, of course, about what is relevant to marketing, but it is about whether the consumer should actively opt out in order to avoid marketing or only be offered if he/she has actively requested it. That is where the problem lies: by means of the small nick you put, you say yes to it and can now experience receiving many more e-mails. After all, there is nothing to prevent the consumer from obtaining the consumer's consent in the normal way when buying a product, and already today spam is a major and seemingly increasing problem, which gives rise to many complaints from the consumer ombudsman. Does the Minister think that this is a sensible time to make it even easier to send out marketing without consumers having actively asked for it, in other words saying 'yes', rather than having to be aware of saying 'no'?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116162626	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116162629	But this covers up the fact that there may be a slightly different view of what to do as a consumer and what to do as a consumer. I am, in fact, very concerned about the fact that consumers are also being given the opportunity to receive more advertising mail, but I am also concerned about what is in the legislative proposal, which is now under discussion, and which we will also be discussing during the committee procedure, in other words some of the opportunities that companies have, which are also following on from what we are looking around in other EU countries. I think that is also an important part of the discussion, so that we do not put Danish companies at a disadvantage compared with the companies located in other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116162711	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116162713	I agree, of course, that you have to look around a little when you change these things. But with regard to interpretation in other countries, for example. The Netherlands and the United Kingdom, two out of the five countries examined by the Committee in connection with their work. Moreover, it appears that in the United Kingdom it is not interpreted quite as broadly as proposed in the draft, according to which the trader can, in principle, give notice of all products in the world which have no connection with what has been sold. It does not seem to be possible to do so in Britain. In addition, the remaining three countries studied, Sweden, Norway and Germany, have the same interpretation as us. Does the Minister think that it is the Netherlands alone that we have to deal with, while the other neighbouring countries have just an interpretation similar to our current one?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116162803	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116162806	With all due respect, I also think it is important that there should be a committee procedure which does not necessarily take place in relation to the questions to the ministers here on Wednesday, and I think that is a little important to make clear, also in relation to the way Parliament works. But I'm not supposed to get involved in that as a minister. I'm happy to ask and answer all questions. But, of course, it is a committee work which is based on a committee work set up by the previous government and I admit that as the minister who took over, I have also given some slightly different directions for the committee and I think it is some very excellent recommendations that have come. This does not mean that one should follow them. I agree with the questioner that there may be good reasons not to do so, but with regard to the fact that we have to have a detailed examination of it in relation to the various countries, I think it makes the best sense for us to take it during the committee procedure, and I would like to put it up to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116162853	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116162855	It's okay. In other words, it is a question of finding the right balance between what business benefits and what the consumer must accept to be bombed with by digital advertising. It is a growing irritation for consumers, and it will also be able to develop into a greater time robber than it is today. Does the Minister agree that it is necessary to have strict control of how this area develops? And will the Minister work to ensure that consumers are effectively protected from unauthorized advertising?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116162923	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116162925	I'm preoccupied with two things. Firstly, I am concerned that consumers will have the opportunity to gain an overview of all the good offers, all the good opportunities offered to them. I think that's a good idea. Secondly, I am concerned that companies must have better conditions than they are today. I also agree, of course, that we should not just unleash everything, but I certainly do not think that is the case with the legislative proposal that has been proposed and the political discussion that we started with at first reading. I am open to looking at it if there are things that need to be clarified or nuanced, and that is also why, in the context of the treatment I would like to repeat here, I will have a discussion with the Social Democratic Party. I also think it is important that this legislation should be based on a broad majority in the Folketing. So that is my starting point for the political negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116163016	Thank you. The question is closed. We move on to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Business and Growth by Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116163022	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116163024	Thank you. Does the Minister agree that it would be more fair for the consumer to be actively and more clearly authorised to receive advertising emails in order to be able to participate in online competition than is the case today?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116163040	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116163043	Thank you for the opportunity to answer this question. I agree with the questioner that it is most fair if the consumer is to give active and clear permission to receive advertising emails in connection with participating in a competition on the Internet, and it is important to make it clear from the outset. For the same reason, we also have in the draft law's special comments on the definition of consent in § 2, no. 14, clarified the requirements as to when the consumer has given a valid consent to receive advertising emails in connection with competitions. We therefore write directly in these comments that if a consent is obtained in the context of a competition, it must be clear to the consumer that, at the same time as participation in the competition, consent is given to receiving marketing. In addition, it is apparent from the special comments to Section 6 of the draft law, which the current Article 9 on promotional measures is written together with the fact that when a trader uses competitions, the condition for participation must be clear, clear and easily accessible to the consumer. Finally, the draft law also states that the consumer must be able to opt out of advertising e-mails easily and free of charge. That is why I believe that the proposal for a directive ensures that consumers must actively and clearly give their consent to receive advertising mail when it is a condition for participating in a competition on the Internet.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116163157	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116163200	Already today, the consumer must be informed of what consent is given to. Nevertheless, we note that precisely competitions and questionnaires and the like, which are conditional on consent to marketing, are the cause of a great many complaints to the Consumer Council, and this therefore suggests that it lags behind with the clarity that the Minister himself says there should be. However, it is equally important that the consumer cannot participate in the competitions without accepting the terms of subsequent advertising, which often have no natural connection with the content of the competition. Does the Minister consider this to be a reasonable situation? Or would it be fairer if the consumer could take part in competitions with such real freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116163242	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116163244	I hope it will not come as a great surprise that I always like the legislative proposals that I am making myself, and otherwise it was a problem that I tabled them. I have the view that political negotiations can be held in the Parliamentary Chamber, but that they can also be conducted bilaterally, and I do not intend to open these political debates today on a question on this subject. I intend to do so both in committee, but we do so at a bilateral meeting. I believe that what I have answered is very clear and very clear in relation to the question of consent and also the whole question of online competitions. But that should not stop me from saying, as I said in the previous question, that I have no reason to make a conflict out of this issue, and that is why I am also putting forward a future dialogue at a bilateral level with the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116163335	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116163337	I am very pleased about that too, and I would also like to thank the Minister for that work. The competitions that I am talking about here are found in many places online, and it can be on the corporate website or to a large extent on the social media. This means that it may be difficult for consumers to avoid being confronted with one competition after another, especially on Facebook it flourishes. Often they are attractive prizes such as travel and other valuable things. What is the Minister's position that people are being bombarded in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116163411	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116163413	First of all, I take the view that advertising has come to stay, and so are competitions. I think everyone knows about people's desire to take part in competitions. But of course it is also clear that there are some who may feel bothered by it. I do not believe that the current draft law will create a situation which would do very badly for the consumer, even as regards what I have said about the special remarks. However, this is a debate which we must take and I would just like to say once again that I think it is best that it should take place at a different time when we are now in the process of examining the legislative proposal in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116163457	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116163459	I would just like to say one last thing about whether the Minister agrees that it is far down the road that people with perhaps a little less IT experience can be particularly caught up in this context. For them, it can in fact be very difficult to understand what the consequences of participating in an online competition are. The problem lies precisely in the fact that the consumer is not being adequately informed of the fact that he is now saying yes to advertising e-mails. In plain Danish, then, there are a number of consumers who do not understand the consequences of putting that little flybone, and who do not know how to make it stop altogether. I am not talking about apologising for people's ignorance, but ask the Minister whether the Minister's attitude to the legislation in this area is that it should protect the consumer sufficiently to avoid discomfort.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116163551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116163553	In other words, the legislative proposal that I have put forward is my full aim and I do not believe that it will in any way make it worse to be a consumer. Having said that, however, I would like to make clear what I answered in the previous question, namely that this is suitable for discussion. This applies in relation to some of the written questions put by the committee, which I am also given the opportunity to answer, and that also applies, to how and how we then ensure that consumers have the opportunity to obtain the right information, including the right information, taking due account of what I said about competitions coming to stay, and that I also per. definition believes that people are able to make their own choices.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116163640	The question is closed. We thank the Minister and the questioner. The next question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing by Mr. Ib Poulsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116163647	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116163653	Thank you. Is the Minister's view that it is okay to employ a foreigner without a residence and work permit in a public institution?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116163703	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116163705	As I also stood here a week ago and said to the author's party colleague, Mr. Jan Rytkjær Callesen, it is my clear opinion that all employers must abide by the rules when they employ foreign labour; of course it is. This applies, of course, to both public and private employers and therefore also to public institutions. The government has a strong focus on the area. The immigration authorities shall, in cooperation with inter alia: I believe that this effort is absolutely essential in the fight against illegal work. In other words, once control efforts have been stepped up, the authorities are finding more and more cases of illegal work. Unfortunately, we also often see employers unwittingly violating the rules simply because this is an incredibly complex set of rules which are often difficult to understand for employers. It is precisely for this reason that an inter-ministerial working group has been set up which is currently examining what we can do to help employers so that they do not inadvertently violate the law on foreigners when they employ foreign labour. And once that working group has completed its work, the government will of course present initiatives in this area which will make it easier for employers to comply with the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116163838	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116163840	The Minister has previously stated that this is a single matter. Whether it was a week ago to my party colleague, I should not be told, but how do we know that these are individual cases? The official figures differ greatly from those of the police themselves. Just to clarify the difference between official and unofficial figures, I can say that it is clear from the official figures that 195 cases of illegal employment of foreigners were brought in the third quarter of this year. This means that according to the official figures, there are approx. 800 cases a year. It is in itself many, but it is nothing against the unofficial figures. In the Police Union's trade paper Dansk Politik, you can read that the police themselves estimate that there are between 20,000 and 50,000 foreigners illegally staying in Denmark, and we have to assume that some of them are here to work illegally. It is worrying that there is so much difference between the official figures of approx. 800 cases and police unofficial estimates of between 20,000 and 50,000 illegal immigrants. It cannot be right that there is such a big difference between the figures and that, at the same time, it is said in here that you are interested in them. We heard the Minister say that now and here. But we can't figure this out. If action is to be taken against illegal immigration and illegal work, we must at least know the extent of the problem. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he is aware of this issue, which I do not think she was in the answer earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164007	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164008	I can be a little worried about Mr. Knox. Ib Poulsen simply did not hear the full answer, because I said just now that a working group has been set up to look at these things, and then, of course, we will come up with some initiatives if needed. It may well be there. So I'm not quite in agreement with Mr. Knox. Ib Poulsen in. I would just like to say that the question is about an employment in a public institution and not about who is staying in Denmark and who is not. That, of course, is why I am answering as I am. I am answering the question that is being asked. That Mr. Ib Poulsen then wants another answer and in fact an answer to another question is another matter. We'll have to meet on next Wednesday.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164047	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164049	I'd like to continue along this track a little bit, because if we accept this big difference between official and unofficial figures, then we're sending the wrong signal to our citizens. We must take an interest in what figures are right, because we have told the citizens that we must accept the open borders of the European Union. At least some have. However, if we are to have open borders in Denmark, then we must also have safeguards against illegal immigration. So from that point of view, police figures are not quite insignificant, because it is the police who stand at the borders, so they are the ones who know the figures. And then it is strange that the official numbers of 800 cases do not match the police's own figures of between 20,000 and 50,000 illegal immigrants. So I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister will examine the police figures to get them off or confirmed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164139	I can say that we are constantly following this issue, and I believe that Mr. Ib Poulsen is aware.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164145	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164146	That is absolutely right, and we do so in the Danish People's Party, because this is an important matter for us. We must not only have official immigration under control; we must, of course, also manage illegal immigration.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164159	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164200	I can say that I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164204	The question is closed. We thank the questioner. The next question is also for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. This time, it's by mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164213	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164215	Thank you, President. Our question is as follows: When the Minister of TV 2 NEWS states on 24 October 2016 that "We just know that moving freely across borders means a lot to, for example, our citizens. The Øresund region, which has developed a great deal on the growth front, does the Minister believe that this growth will change because border controls have been introduced and from where does the Minister have that knowledge?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164247	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164249	Denmark has, of course, benefited over the past many years from the growth that free movement has given in Europe and, above all, here in the Nordic countries. This leads to closer integration, including when it comes to trade and, of course, to people between them and also to much better competition. In other words, it has helped create growth and prosperity in Denmark, but it does not change the fact that temporary border controls have been necessary. That is why, as is well known, I, together with my Swedish colleague, have been working for the recent extension of border controls. However, the Swedish border control and not least the Swedish ID control have among other things. This means that many people have been given longer travel times to and from work, which is to the detriment of both growth and prosperity in the Øresund region. By its very nature, I cannot comment in detail on the traffic nuisance caused by the Swedish immigration and border controls in the Øresund region. I'll leave that to the Minister for Transport and Building. However, I note that last month the Danish-Swedish Knowledge Centre, the Øresund Institute, has pointed to the negative effects of the Swedish ID and border control, and that this includes: is felt in the form of reduced travel, a shrinking labour market and poor access to Copenhagen Airport. The Foundation considers that in the long term control is expected to adversely affect the growth of the region. The government is very keen to have good and close cooperation with the Swedish authorities in relation to the efforts at our common border, and that is why we are also discussing with the Swedes how the problems which the control has now given rise to can actually be addressed. But let me conclude by saying that in my world it is obvious to everyone that if temporary border controls are introduced, then, of course, freedom of movement is also restricted at the same time. That is why it is important that controls are proportionate and that they should be organised so that there is as little discomfort as possible for citizens. That does not mean that I am not in favour of the border controls that we now have, because I am very much in favour of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164516	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164518	We can always ask whether growth should be a parameter for everything we are discussing. When I ask this question, it is basically because I think it is something that often occurs in the argument for why you should not have border controls, in other words that it is growth that is the argument. That being said so often, I would really like to know what the reasons are for saying that. Because there are other things that have a role to play. It plays a role in Denmark that the Danes are safe. I think there could be a lot of trouble, and if there was a lot of violence on the street, it would also affect people's will to go out and act. It would also affect growth. The threat of terror would also affect growth if it turned out that more Islamists from the Islamic State had crossed the border without anyone stopping them, and then they jump a bomb in Copenhagen. Then it could also affect growth. So I'm just saying that there are a lot of discussions in this which are basically about being safe. And I am just not sure, as the world currently looks like, that there will be no permanent border controls because I believe that this is the only right thing to do. So I just want to challenge the Minister's line of reasoning, because I thought it seemed great. And I think that, in relation to the problems in which Denmark is facing Europe, there are some things that are far, far more serious than such a narrow view of growth which, I believe, cannot even be justified entirely, as the Minister does.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164710	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164712	But all I can say is that we have just extended border controls and that I have been very active in this extension.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164719	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164721	Yeah, but it's about the argument. Now I stand by what the Minister says. Because what I'm obviously interested in is that it's clear as the sun is that we get a permanent border control. Well, that's why I'm standing here, and that's why I'm asking the Minister. For the Minister gives the impression that in other circumstances it could actually be excellent not to have a border control. That is to say, you just had this free movement across borders because it would ensure growth and so on. etc. I do not believe in it, and I do not believe that it is going to happen at all, in relation to the challenges that Europe is currently facing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164802	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164804	It's okay, sir. Christian Langballe says that what he really stands for now is for permanent border controls. But that, sir. Christian Langballe asks, is from where I have my knowledge that the introduction of border controls and ID controls can help to hamper growth. And then I answer that I do, among other things. Because of the Øresund Institute, which has made some calculations about this. So says Mr. Christian Langballe, that's not what he's interested in, that's where I get my knowledge from. That's the permanent border control he wants. Well, it's gonna be a tiny bit difficult to discuss when Mr. Simpson... Christian Langballe asks for one and I answer it, because then Mr. Christian Langballe, that is not really what he wants to discuss. He's actually just standing here for permanent border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164843	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164844	So allow me, I would say to the Minister, to be a little educational and try to cut it into squares. Because what is at issue is that the Minister, with that statement, assumes that it is actually a problem that we have temporary border controls because it hampers growth. That is the line of argument itself, and that is why the Minister will continue to say that we have temporary border controls, but that we will never have permanent border controls. And then I just ask: what is the argument for so nice to say that border controls per person. definition hampers growth? Because I can see in what the Minister has said that there is no argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164925	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116164927	I'm very sorry, I'd like to say to Mr. Simpson. Christian Langballe, but that is simply not what is being asked in the question. I am answering what is being asked about here in the question. And let me say that I am in favour of freedom of movement, but in the situation we are in now I believe that border controls are necessary. That is why we have introduced temporary border controls, and that is why we have extended temporary border controls several times. So we do not disagree with that part, namely that it is now important to have border controls. But I am not in favour of permanent border controls. I am in favour of freedom of movement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116165008	The question is closed. We move on to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing by Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116165014	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116165019	Does the Minister consider it appropriate that in practice you can cross Denmark's borders, as long as the asphalt roads are avoided, as described in the article "Grainen's hole as a strainer in BT on 26 October 2016?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116165033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116165036	It seems to me that there is no doubt, as I said before, that the current border controls have given the Danish authorities much better opportunity to deal with migration and refugee flows and ensure peace and order in Denmark. Since the introduction of border controls, the number of entry and asylum seekers has fallen considerably. Thus, an average of approx. 11 asylum seekers per day in the last month, i.e. in October 2016, compared with an average of 119 in October 2015. When we introduced border controls, the entry rate was approx. 200 people a day, and in October the figure is approx. 10-15 people a day. I'm sure that even Mr. Knox... Christian Langballe and the Danish People's Party agree with me that the situation is far, far better today than when the government introduced its border controls at the beginning of last year. I would therefore also like to remind you that border controls are inevitably associated with certain difficulties, challenges and also nuisances, not least for the many people who cross the border every day. The current Danish border controls are random, measured and balanced. Police control is based on continuous observation of traffic across the border from Germany, and control can be scaled up on an ongoing basis if needed. It is the opinion of the police that most refugees and migrants who enter Denmark are affected by the current control effort. It is therefore the government's view that border controls in their present form are in line with their intended purpose. Then things can change, and if they do, we can scale up border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116165232	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116165234	I'm trying to ask for an answer. That's what you usually do. If this is what the article claims, then you have to choose a forest path if you are an Islamist and if you want Denmark to hurt. Then you can go across the Danish border without any problem. Or what's it like? I'm kidding. I seriously believe that what is happening in Europe at the moment is not very reassuring in any way. The terrorist has become global with this global approach you have. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116165325	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116165326	Well, the police are, after all, the body to be expected to have the best overview... perhaps even better than the Danish People's Party, but it can never be known. In any case, I have to say that I am relying on the response of the police, and when the police say that they believe that the kind of border control we have now is both proportional but also effective, then I am relying on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116165400	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116165401	Now the Danish People's Party's overview is fantastic, and that is why we have actually been calling for border controls since the introduction of this limitless utopia. This is, of course, the expression of a very, very large overview, because we actually had a sense of what might happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116165426	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116165427	I would like to sign for that, but if it was the case that the Danish People's Party knew exactly how things would change, for example. I really would have liked the Danish People's Party and, of course, Mr. Christian Langballe had sent me an email in order to say that it is now happening and that in August it will all fall over. It could have been really good. But I do not question at all that the Danish People's Party also has its finger on the pulse.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116165455	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116165457	Now, I just want to say something completely in principle, and that is that one can learn from one's history. If you are aware of the migrations that have taken place in Europe throughout history, then you know that the migrations have always had a very, very great influence on many things and have also led to chaos. That is why, until 25 March 2001, border controls have actually been in Denmark because we have been aware that nations sometimes have to defend themselves because something is happening that nobody can count on suddenly triggers political events and, possibly, migratory flows that make it very sensible to have border controls. That's kind of just my point.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116165543	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116165545	I acknowledge that, but I would like to say that I do not disagree at all with Mr Tugendhat. Christian Langballe in that border controls are needed at present.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116165557	The question is closed. We thank the Minister and thank the honourable Member. We move on to the next question to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116165607	I give the floor to the author. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116165612	Thank you. What does the Minister think is the reason why the charges have fallen for acts of violence, and what does the Minister intend to do about the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116165621	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116165624	We have a good police force that delivers good results on many parameters, but it is also a police force that faces major challenges. There are currently significant re-priorities in the police as a result of the fight against terrorism and the border effort, and this cannot be done without consequences for the other tasks of the police. Reprioritisation means, among other things, that: increased file piles and longer processing time. Unfortunately, this also means falling charges, including in cases of violence. Violence is a serious crime. I therefore also have a clear expectation that the police will give priority to the fight against violent crime, which is why I am pleased that the Commissioner for Police and the Public Prosecutor have quite recently stressed in a joint letter that in the police circles there must be a great focus on cases of personal crime. This applies from the initial police handling of the case to the prosecution's position on the indictment issue. I have also noted that the National Police Commissioner and the Attorney General will follow developments closely. In addition, a number of measures have been taken to resolve the lack of police officers. We have increased the attendance at the police school, we employ other employee groups so that police officers can be released from administrative duties, and we have asked the Home Guard to assist the police at the border. The government will also work hard forward to relieve the police further.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116165743	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116165745	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. When I address this issue today, it is, of course, because it is extremely worrying, on the one hand, to note that the number of reports of violence is increasing, while at the same time the charges are decreasing. You could say that it's two curves that have something to do with each other, and they're both going the wrong way. It would have been nice if there were fewer reports because there was less violence, and it would have been nice if a larger part of the cases led to the fact that the one who had been expected to do so came before a judge, and then one could take the process further from there. I'm afraid this could mean a break in the Danes' safety curve. When you see, perhaps when a charge rate is falling, that more victims are left thinking that exactly their cause is not being taken care of, because there were not enough resources for that, that could not be dealt with, you could not only imagine less security, but you could also imagine that more people would resort to vigilanteness to find some way to justice or at least try to find a way to something they might think is justice. That is why it is not, in fact, teasing or anything in that direction that makes me take it up today, but just because it is so important. Because that is one of the things people talk a lot about, it is one of the things that is going hard on both the victim who is victims of the abuse, but of course also the family members who are left behind, or friends, they may be children, they may be all kinds of people in the close circle who are also affected by this. That is why I would like to hear the Minister say a little about this in relation to longer processing time, and that the National Police Commissioner had taken this up. When the Minister expects that this problem could have been reversed and whether the National Police Commissioner has been asked to return and give a status, possibly for those parties which are part of the police settlement and have thus put money in the police force here in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116165941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116165944	That's what Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen refers to, after all, gives rise to a great many answers, but of course we do so in the police conciliation circle. The second is that we have known that 2016 and 2017 would be tough, since the lack of labour by the police is concentrated in these years. On the other hand, we are working as wild and also actually faster than originally expected to solve this problem. So we should very much like to see within a year that it starts to lighten, but a precise date I cannot set on it, and we therefore, as the Danish People's Party has pointed out many times, need resources for Danish police.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116170028	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116170030	I am glad that the Minister is honest about that. I think we can quite agree that there is a large-scale lack of officers. After all, it has been one of the very big cornerstones of the Danish People's Party for many years in the field of justice and it has continued, that is, the lack of police, which we think it is now perhaps particularly obvious that it has been there for a number of years, where many officers have at least talked about how they have run very fast, and where you have been looking several times at how you could pay overtime to try to get more officers back in service so that you could get it all running around. I just think that in the end I would ask the Minister perhaps to say a few words about what has been planned for the future. According to the government, how many police officers are believed to be missing? Does the government have an estimate? In the Danish People's Party we say 2,000 extra cops over 10 years. What's the minister's estimate, compared to how many cops you need? How many extras do you need to keep up?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116170121	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116170123	I do not want to go into that right here in the middle of the budget negotiations, because unfortunately I am afraid that it can be used in any direction. But fortunately we have jointly made an agreement to add 2 billion to the Danish police. kr. extra, and we have made a specific agreement that next year, during the budget negotiations, we will be specifically discussing the need for more police officers. This means that it is an ongoing process, and I am actually glad that we have agreed. It also seems that what we have heard publicly about further action by the police is moving in the right direction. I am not going to be too excited about it, but I am glad that we are pulling together in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116170203	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116170205	I don't have anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116170207	The question is closed. We move on to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116170215	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116170217	What initiatives does the Government intend to take to ensure compliance with the procurement rules in the Minister's area of responsibility, and what has the Minister done in relation to the case of the security firm CERTA?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116170229	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116170232	Let me make my expectation crystal clear here in the Assembly Hall. It is that all the authorities in the Ministry of Justice comply with the procurement rules. It is therefore clearly unsatisfactory that recent cases of procurement by ministerial authorities have been identified in breach of the procurement rules. Therefore, action has also been taken to ensure compliance with the procurement rules. I have personally made it clear to the heads of government in the field of ministerial affairs that compliance by the Ministry of Justice with the procurement rules must not be questionable and I expect the rules to be respected. The Ministry of Justice's top executive forum, consisting of the Departmental Head of the Ministry of Justice and the Heads of the Governing Board, has also continuously instructed the authorities in the field of ministerial affairs to comply with the procurement rules. All authorities shall review their business practices and guidelines in order to ensure that procurement is carried out in accordance with the rules. The department's gonna follow it up and make sure it happens. In addition, relevant staff must be trained in the procurement rules and given information on procurement and procurement rules. The department will monitor closely the progress of the authorities' efforts to ensure that the procurement rules are complied with by all the authorities. With regard to the security firm CERTA, the Directorate for Criminal Services has stated that a call for tenders will be made if further advice is needed in relation to security assistance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116170400	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116170401	Thank you for your answer. If I am to start with the positive, I would say that the Minister says from the outset that there have been problems in the past. At any rate, I remember a case that is not very old, from the police, where the same challenges had been encountered as here in the Criminal Services with CERTA. Our fear is that this is a more general problem. In the first place, it could be said that it was just a slipper, a single matter from which one can complain, rectify and move forward. Then there'll be another one about CERTA in the months after. This is really unfortunate, I think, because we should be able to have confidence in those parts of the public sector that deal with law and order. It is precisely in those parts that we have to assume that the rules are in place, including the procurement rules. They are really, really important, so you can't sit out there as a Dane and get the impression that some people are doing each other favours. That would be completely wrong. I assume, then, that the Minister will take great care to ensure that the impression that some Danes may have been given is vilified in the ground. So I would like to ask the Minister: do these cases give rise to a review of some of the agreements that have been made in recent years in those departments where it may have gone wrong? Or does this lead the Minister to look at the specific cases and perhaps to make sure that there is a thorough statement of the whole or perhaps a study carried out so that the Legal Affairs Committee can have full assurance that these were just individual cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116170537	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116170538	Excuse me for drawing on the smile tape, but of course I fully agree with Mr. Simpson. Peter Kofod Poulsen in principle. I find it unfortunate that the Ministry of Justice has seen such cases taking place. On the other hand, I can also guarantee that there is full pressure on the boilers in the efforts to get to the bottom of this and get the rules tightened up so that they are respected in the future. I would, of course, be happy to return to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and no problems in that respect. I think it is perfectly justified for these questions to be asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116170619	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116170620	I just have one question that can be answered with yes or no. This means that these specific cases will be examined very carefully? I guess that's true. The Legal Affairs Committee will be informed of them. But do they otherwise give reason to look at the seams of those departments where there have been problems with now two cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116170642	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116170643	I can guarantee that the cases in question have been thoroughly investigated. This has not immediately led us to look for other matters, other than that we have in the future spelled out what the rules are like and are following up on whether they are being complied with. That has, for the time being, been the determining factor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116170701	The questioner? The question is closed and we thank the honourable Member. The next question is also for the Minister of Justice, and this time it is with Mr. Rasmus Prehn, the Social Democrat who asks.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116170719	I give the floor to the author. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116170723	Thank you very much, President. I shall start by reading my question. If the Minister considers that the extraordinary tasks of guarding the capital and border control in South Jutland can be solved smarter by using possible new technology, then among other things. Police from North Jutland can come home and create necessary security?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116170741	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116170744	As both the questioner and I are aware, the police are challenged by many resource-intensive tasks, and the government has acted by pursuing several tracks. One of them, as you know, is that in the spring we decided that the National Guard should help the police. It freed policemen who could get back in the circles. And there's also a clue that's about new technology. In relation to guarding terrorist targets, the police are implementing a new security concept. The ambition is to reduce the use of human resources for physical protection using shell protection, containment and technical support. The National Police are working after a temporary solution with video surveillance of certain exposed objects is in place in June 2017. The temporary solution will provide experience and serve as a starting point for the final security concept. We are also using new technology for border controls. Here ANPG, automatic license plate recognition, has been established in the border area of South Jutland, and I can also mention the nine new ABC gates at Copenhagen Airport, which the police established in early 2016. Once the system is fully implemented, travellers arriving from outside the Schengen area will to a large extent pass the automatic gates where they will be checked directly in the police national and international systems. So there are good examples of how new technology can contribute to a more effective task solution, and we will also see more of this in the future. This is something I attach great importance to.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116170915	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116170917	First of all, thank you very much to the Minister for Justice for this quite informative answer. There is no doubt that there are a whole lot of new initiatives along the way, and I think that is extremely positive. Could the Minister try to be a little more specific in relation to the prospects that some of the officers currently stationed in Copenhagen will be able to work more with a focus on the local area in which they usually work? When can you start to downgrade the tasks in Copenhagen so as to be able to upgrade the tasks around the country, among other things. In North Jutland, where you need cops?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116171002	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116171005	I am a little curious about the North Jutland officers in Copenhagen, so how many people the questioner really thinks it is, but apart from that, it can be said that what is intended is continuous both to ensure that the security that must be present is too exposed, for example. Jewish institutions are there, but also that there needs to be a discussion with those involved, so that we have sufficient security, while at the same time moving to more physical interlocking facilities. That's why I can't just say it's gonna be the day after tomorrow. However, we will have some clear experience from it in June 2017, when it will eventually be possible to draw conclusions from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116171051	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116171053	It is very positive to get the Minister's answer to this and that there is a prospect that in June 2017, as I hear it, you will be able to relax the number of officers, among others. from North Jutland, which is to stay in Copenhagen. Does the Minister have any thought about supplementing the efforts that are now being made, possibly with other types of guard? Now we have talked about the Home Guard at the border, but could one imagine that there were places where you could also supplement with security guards or other things, in other words where the type of staff could handle some of the tasks the police are doing today?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116171135	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116171138	As the public has shown, there has been a discussion about adding to the police a newly trained staff group specifically for guarding tasks and other similar tasks. Unfortunately, this is not something that I can go much deeper into, because it is part of the financial law negotiations, and I do not wish to overshadow them terribly. But, yes, those considerations are there. There is also a consideration in relation to the fact that some of the police's tasks are to be carried out by private individuals. There are, among other things: A study of the costs and transport of them, which we have agreed together. So, yes, there are a number of measures, but in relation to guarding it is a consideration which has also been made public.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116171223	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116171224	In conclusion, I would like to acknowledge the answers we have received today. There is no doubt that there is a great deal going on in relation to the use of new technology. You've been very up-to-date about involving new ways of dealing with this, even in relation to other professional groups, you're thinking new things, and I think that's tremendously positive. We look forward to getting more officers back to the North Jutland assignments. I would also like to say that I have raised the whole issue in the past with an increased number of break-ins in North Jutland, and there I have seen with great satisfaction that the North Jutland Police have actually managed to solve some of this task. There are still too many break-ins, but it has improved, so the discussion we have had, among other things. Here in the Assembly Hall has helped. So I would like to sign for that and thank the Minister for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116171311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116171313	I can almost only say: thank you, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116171319	The question is closed. We thank the Minister of Justice and the questioner. We move on to the next question, which is No. 19, and it is to the Minister for Children, Education and Equal Opportunities of Mr. Malte Larsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116171332	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116171334	I thank and would like to read out the question: what initiatives will the Minister take to ensure that enough pupils from the social and health schools are trained in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116171345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116171350	After several years of negotiations, a two-year dimensioning agreement has been concluded on public internships in the training programmes for social and health workers, social and health assistant and educational assistant with LO, KL and Danske Regionser. And as part of this dimensioning agreement, employers undertake to provide every year a minimum of 2 200 internships for the social and health assistant training and a minimum of 5 000 internships for the social and health assistant training. The levels of dimensioning set reflect the assessment by the parties of the need for graduates for these courses in the coming years, and employers in the individual municipalities and regions can at any time set up more internships if they consider that there is a need for this. I can also inform you that, in cooperation with the social partners, two new independent training courses are being set up for social and health workers and social and health assistants, each with a clear professional profile, to ensure that education and training reflect the needs of the labour market in the best way possible. In this context, it is also important to say that instead of requiring two internships in relation to a step training course, one needs only an internship. Therefore, the figures look different than they did with the old education. I believe that the initiatives that have been taken, both in the tripartite agreement on the private labour market, but also in the dimensioning agreement concluded by the public labour market partners, are good, both to ensure that the young people who are needed are trained, but also to ensure that there is a link between the number of people being trained and the places of work that are and, subsequently, the jobs that are available and thus the jobs that are available out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116171533	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116171534	I am pleased that we see a common need for sufficient labour to be available in the future. In reality, this also means that we should train a little more than we really need, because not everyone will be employed in this area. However, the tripartite agreement states: "If we are to ensure growth and prosperity in the future, public and private companies must have easy access to sufficient and qualified labour throughout the country. It is both about preventing recruitment challenges and ensuring sufficient and qualified labour at all levels, but with a particular focus on skilled workers. Access to skilled labour is important in ensuring that companies can obtain the labour they require - both in the short and long term. These are fine words, but the agreement may have exactly the opposite effect for Randers Social and Health School and for the Djursland area. The new agreement certainly means a decrease in school attendance of 31%. Towards 2018. In other words, fewer pupils will be trained together. In addition, all studies, including the municipalities' own ratios, show that the number of elderly people requiring care will increase in the coming years. Figures from the FOA say that the figure may be up to 8,000 more by 2020. On top of that, 361 municipal staff FOA Randers members within the next 3 years will obtain retirement and retirement age. A very large proportion of these will, in terms of experience, choose to leave the labour market. The 361 is almost 10%. municipal social and health workers. Together, this means that the need for qualified employees in the municipalities' core welfare areas will increase. One of my concerns is of course: Are we being educated too few at the school in Randers with the consequences it has for that part of Denmark, and will there be training for many other places that we may not be able to use for so much?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116171732	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116171734	After all, the Dimensioning Agreement has been agreed between the parties, and I am very confident that in this case employers and employees represented by LO, KL and Danske Regioner have an overview of what the employment situation is around the country in the different regions, with the regional differences that may exist. I also think it is important that we support the dimensioning agreement that has been made, because that is the best way to ensure that there is neither under-training nor over-training. We cannot be served, not even as MPs and I as minister in here, by training for many young people and by not having a job perspective afterwards. That's why I'm relying on the dimensioning agreement that's been made. And if the municipalities in the Rander area need more pupils, they can always make agreements that go beyond what is the capacity of the school.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116171824	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116171825	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116171830	Then the question is closed. We move on to the next question. It is also for the Minister for Children, Education and Equal Opportunities of Mr. Malte Larsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116171841	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116171843	I repeat the question which has also been submitted in writing: does the Minister believe that there is a reasonable link between the political objective of 95 per cent? of a youth year gets a youth education and the fact that in future the dimension of the teaching assistant education has been reduced to 700 pupils a year at national level?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116171902	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116171904	It is the Government's wish, also in conjunction with the contractual parties behind the vocational training reform, that more young people should carry out vocational training in Denmark. It acts among other things. about ensuring qualified labour, but it is also about ensuring that young people choose an education where there is a job perspective and a future perspective for them. This also means that, with the tripartite agreement we have made, we are helping to support the fact that there are also enough internships in the various areas, and it is also important in terms of securing the attraction both of young people for education and training, but also so that there is a better match between the demand on the labour market and the ability to recruit qualified skilled workers in a wide range of employment areas covered by vocational training. At the same time, it is also important that pupils who are trained subsequently have good opportunities for employment in their field, and that is one of them. Here, we also need to look at the dimensioning of the training courses • among other things. on PAV, the teaching assistant training. There has been agreement, together with the social partners in the public labour market, on the dimensioning of pedagogical assistant training. The agreement, as the questioner also said and wrote in the question, involves a dimensioning of 700 pupils per year in 2017 and 2018. This level reflects the assessment by the parties of the need for graduates from the training in the coming years. In addition, the government has concluded a broader tripartite agreement with the social partners, including: In addition, there is a need to ensure that there is a high level of education and training in the labour market and in the labour market. But if we look solely at PAV training, we have to say that, unfortunately, we have too high a rate of unemployment for graduates, but we can also see that there has been an excessive admission to schools over the last few years, in relation to how many internships there are. And we need to be honest with young people so that the courses they start can be implemented through an internship and subsequently also with a job perspective.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116172104	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116172106	I agree that it has taken a little time and perhaps even more time than has been expected to get the need for these teaching assistants under way. But it is also my impression that the educational assistant training is finally getting the recognition it deserves, and then it is a little worrying for me that one chooses to restrict admission so violently; there may be a little stop-go in this. This may actually mean the end of education. The training helps ensure qualified employees for one of the municipality's core areas: our children and young people. At the same time, it gives a boost to a great many young people who need and are interested in this. Specifically, this dimensioning agreement means that the number of pupils in the teaching assistant training in Randers and Djursland falls from 61 to 27 pupils. This presents great challenges for an education that had gone on and become so popular. And as the Minister also mentioned, there have actually been as many as 260 applications for 36 student places in 2015 and 2016. Traditionally, the educational assistant area has been seen as a work area in which young people could receive short-term training when they were on their way to something else. The reputation has been worked hard to change, most recently in the 2015 collective bargaining process, where the right to education became a key point. Pedagogical assistants have long had a contractual right to training after two years of employment, thus ensuring the necessary qualifications within the profession. But I'll come back to the fact that I'm worried about it. And I would like to repeat the question. Now that we all think we should have 95%. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116172302	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116172303	I do not think it makes sense to allow young people to start an education where there is neither an internship perspective nor a job perspective at the other end. I think it's dishonest to young people. This is also the basis for both the reform of vocational training, which we have agreed with a broad majority in this House, but also for the tripartite agreement we have concluded with the social partners. That is why I also support the dimensioning agreement made by the social partners on the one hand, and KL and Danske Regions on the other hand, in this area. If we look at the employment rates of the PAV students, who had a closing year in 2014, it was down to 44 per cent, and we have a very high daily allowance rate. I really think that it is only fair to young people that we should be honest about the job perspectives as well. The 95-percent objective for me is not just about getting young people into education. It's also about getting them on their way, well in the job, afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116172352	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116172354	I appreciate the answer. Then I think I will choose a very specific question. Does the Minister guarantee that the teaching assistant training will also exist in two or five years' time?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116172405	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116172406	The Minister has no desire to guarantee that. This is an ongoing discussion within the vocational training community, because it depends on whether there is a demand for specific training and also whether the social partners, the trade committees, are recommending training for continuation or abandonment. There are constant adjustments, including in content. Now we talked about the SOSU programmes before. They have just been divided from being a step education to being two independent courses and have been given a different content. I know that this is also being discussed in the PAV area, because we can see that many of the young people are actually being employed in adult educational services. So there may also be a need for revisions. I think we should take this up in the agreement that we have and where we have good cooperation to strengthen vocational education and training.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116172443	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116172445	I am also grateful for this answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116172448	The question is closed. Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the author. As previously stated, the question is listed as No. 21 on the agenda is deleted. That is why we move on to the question listed as No. 22, and this is addressed to the Minister of Taxation by Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116172503	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116172505	Thank you, President. I will start by reading the question, and that is very brief: will the Minister actively encourage potential whistleblowers to come forward with information on criminal matters in tax matters?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116172521	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116172523	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by saying that it is a fundamental value for me as Minister of Taxation that we should have confidence in each other. I think that's the longest way to go. It is therefore also quite overall my view as Minister that Denmark cannot and should not be allowed to be a country where citizens are encouraged to notify each other. This creates distrust among citizens, and it weakens legal certainty for citizens or companies who experience unreasonably being notified. I think it is important that in this matter we keep in mind that the relationship is between an employer and an employee. For even in an employment relationship it is essential that there is confidence and if an employee becomes aware of a relationship that is considered to be questionable or even illegal, then I think that the natural place to address that problem is with the company itself in the first place, and let me give an example of it. It could be that if the individual employee had a talk with his colleague, his boss or other senior employees in the company, the picture would be slightly more nuanced than that which has just been seen from the individual employee's desk. It could also be that there was a will to remedy the problem. At the same time, I would also like to say that it is important to be aware that, by virtue of his employment relationship, an employee is subject to an obligation of professional secrecy which is broken if the employee chooses instead to go to the public with a problem. For this reason, I believe that if an employee is experiencing something questionable or illegal in the field of taxation and the company is not willing to engage in a dialogue on this or rectify it, then he should go to the appropriate authority, that is to say SKAT or the police, and therefore I also consider that there is no need to actively encourage whistleblowers to provide information on criminal matters in the field of taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116172717	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116172719	Thank you for that and thank you for your reply. I think there are many people out there who think that this is a major threat to the financing of our welfare state, that is, tax evasion and so on, and now I am talking both about what is clearly illegal, but also about what to say, what to say, what is more in the grey area, and we are often discussing this with the minister, that is to say, this aggressive tax planning. But if we only deal with the criminal aspect of it, we have seen, among other things. in the case of legal proceedings, including in Europe, there are many consequences of going out and reporting on the things that are going on, for example. Lux Leaks and Panama Papers and that they can be very, very extensive, for example. a prison sentence. I am sure that the Minister, just as I am not in favour of heeling, but the Minister has nevertheless decided and it supports the SF to buy information from which they are derived, as I believe is stolen. But it is a place where we agree to compromise on such a fundamental view that we do not buy stolen goods because the concern is so much greater, namely that the people can count on us to do everything we can to put an end to this massive tax fraud. But I just wanted to ask the Minister a question. I fully agree that we should not go around indicating each other, but there are billions in this area running out of the treasury, because while small businessmen and ordinary people pay their taxes, those who are rich enough not to pay taxes can be helped to save them in different places. Does the Minister really believe that the situation today is good enough for those who wish to pass such information on to the public?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116172918	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116172920	In Denmark yes. I would say that Denmark is a country where we have a great deal of trust in each other. I think that is the case with most employees. I hope so, and it will be my call that, if you become aware that something is not going right, you go to the management. And if you see that this is illegal, you still have to go to management, but you can of course also consider going to the relevant authorities, even if you run the risk of conflicting with your professional secrecy or anything else. I think most people do, and that is why I see no separate need to make a special call to whistleblowers. I think that in Denmark we have a system that works very well. Abroad it may be another matter, I would agree with Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116173005	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116173006	Thank you. I just have to say that we disagree. I think we need to make a special effort for those who have such information here, but in a way that we ensure, of course, that it is not just because there is a bad personal relationship or that you have become angry about something. Because you can organize yourself beyond that. However, my last question to the Minister in this round will be whether the Minister cannot understand if there are people sitting around who have knowledge of something that is going on that is wrong, who are looking at the recent trials that have been, where whistleblowers who have revealed fraud and tax fraud have actually been sentenced to prison.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116173054	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116173056	Yeah, but there's something I'd like to agree with the questioner. Now I do not know the rules in all the European countries, but there is some indication that in some countries they might well need some sort of whistleblower system, or that there is at least a better balance between what happens when you break professional secrecy and what conditions you can break professional secrecy, and then the desire to get information about illegal activities to the relevant authorities. But when I look at Denmark and when I look at the Danish cases that are there, I have to say that I do not see the problem that the SF is asking about, and that is why I am not inclined to comply with the request, at least not here today in the Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116173136	Does the questioner have any further comments to make? That is not the case, and that concludes the question. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 23, which is also addressed to the tax minister by Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116173145	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116173148	Thank you, President. Will the Minister take the initiative to ensure that employees who disclose information on possible criminal taxation in the company in which they are employed or with their partners or customers etc. to the tax authorities, not to be affected by provisions in employment and confidentiality clauses or the like.?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116173207	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116173209	Thank you for the question, which is, of course, a natural extension of the previous one, and that is why my answer may also reflect the answer I have given in the past. However, in relation to the question of employment and confidentiality in a workplace, including what is called the duty of loyalty to the employer and possibly other employees, I should like to say that I am not going to say, unfortunately, but at least not in my area of competence, and I cannot therefore, as a minister, interfere in what is decided in this area, or at least I will not. However, as regards where I am on the question of whistleblowers in terms of value, I have just explained it in the previous answer, and as I mentioned, I think that an employee should go to his manager or other managers in the company if the employee becomes aware of matters considered to be critical or illegal; it will be a natural place to address these problems in the first place. If we do not then have an approach there, then we can consider a number of other things, and I think it would be extremely relevant to do so, for example. Going to SKAT, to the police or other authorities. In this light and with the knowledge we also have about the problem in Denmark, I do not believe that there is a need to loosen up in relation to what the SF is asking about here, in relation to a balancing point. I think we have hit the balance point in Denmark. As I have said, I agree that when you open your newspaper as an ordinary citizen and newspaper reader, you have to say that there are some countries abroad where you might then wonder how little protection there is for the private employee in a bank or in another company or elsewhere. But in Denmark I have to say that I think we have the necessary degree of balance and legal certainty for the individual as well as for the company.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116173352	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116173354	Now, of course, I must respect the Minister's statement that it is not his job. Normally, questions are then forwarded to the appropriate minister. I hope, then, that we can take it at the overall level. But I understood the Minister's answer to my first question so that the Minister believes that the rules in Denmark are good enough to protect whistleblowers... some who come with knowledge of relationships... that they will not experience what whistleblowers in other European countries have experienced, namely long prison sentences or at least to be convicted in the courts, despite the fact that what they have brought to the public has been knowledge that has been extremely important throughout this global fight against tax evasion and fraud. There is my question, then: if you have any legislation where you say there are some confidentiality clauses, loyalty clauses, how will they weigh in relation to public interest? When I ask these questions, it is also because I think I have already experienced that the Minister would like to compromise on something else we would not compromise on, namely buying stolen goods, heeling. There, after long reflections, the Minister has said, and we agree with that in the SF... that right here we have to compromise and buy information because the second consideration weighs so heavily. It's not an easy decision. It was not for the SF, and I am sure it was not for the Minister either. That is why I just think that, in the situation where some people want to break their professional secrecy and thereby break the rules that they have signed up to, in order to provide some information that is of benefit to the general public, we will have to have a discussion about what is to happen. I guess we can't wait until someone gets sentenced to a long prison sentence.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116173559	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116173601	We can discuss it. I am very happy to do so, and I have promised Parliament that this year we will at least have the first discussion as a follow-up to the question which, I think a few months ago, was asked about tax havens, where the question raised by Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen can of course be included. But overall, I do not agree with the analysis that it is a need that is in Denmark. But I can learn more about that, and then we can have a joint discussion on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116173635	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116173636	I think this is something I want to pursue and then perhaps ask the Minister for Justice too, and perhaps it is also relevant to ask the Minister for Business and Growth about it. Because, as I hear the tax minister, on the one hand, it is not something that the tax minister sees a need to clarify here and now, but, on the other hand, if there is a need to clarify it, we must also take it with the other resort ministries. So I would certainly like to take up that appeal. I mean, we need to make sure that there is no ambiguity about what your rights are if what you reveal as whistleblower is so serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116173718	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116173719	There is always room for clarification. Finally, if I may make one comment on Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's earlier question, I would like to say that I do not think it is quite possible to compare the purchase of Panamanian documents where it is a state that goes in with heeling. In my optics you can't talk about heeling among states, so I think it's stretching that concept a little far. But it is, of course, true that this was an area in which I compromised my position in principle, because I thought it was the right thing to do. But again there are these clues and threads abroad, and I have to say that I think we have a big problem outside the country with people who place money in tax havens, but most people do not do it in Denmark and are helped by Danish advisers. That is why I simply do not believe that we have the problem in the area that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen wants to solve. It's overseas.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116173810	Does the questioner have any further comments to make?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116173813	Just a brief remark: I think that the Minister and I look at what is going on out there differently. But I would also very much like to acknowledge that the Minister has called the consultancy industry for a round table and has discussed what good practices and so on. is in relation to advice. So it's not like I think the government is sitting on its hands. I just think we can do more. But thank you for the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116173837	The minister? Not anymore. That concludes the question. We thank the Minister and the questioner. We move on to the last question in the series, No. 24. This is for the Minister for Employment by Mr. Erik Christensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116173848	The minister doesn't have anything else. That concludes the question. We thank the Minister and the questioner. We move on to the last question in the series, No. 24, and this is for the Minister for Employment by Mr. Erik Christensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116173851	Thank you. I read out the question: Does the Minister expect to be able to conclude a finance agreement that will translate the saving on housing benefits to the elderly, so that once the law has been passed, Payout Denmark can implement the new rules on housing benefits, so that the saving of 200 million. kr. in 2017 can be realized?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116173911	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116173912	Thank you for the question. In a number of previous consultations, the Minister for Finance and I have presented several questions about the housing benefits package. We have done the same in a number of parliamentary answers, and my answer will therefore hardly come as a surprise. However, I can inform you that a negative budget adjustment corresponding to the revenue from the 2015 housing benefits agreement has been entered in the budget. This has happened because the parties to the agreement behind the 2016 Finance Act agreed that during 2016 we should look at the possibilities to translate the agreed savings in the area of housing benefits. The government's starting point is therefore that there needs to be an adjustment of the housing service, but how the implementation is actually going to take place and how implementation should be organised, the government and the parties to the agreement take place at the negotiating table in the ongoing negotiations on the Finance Act for 2017. We need to find the money, as it is budgeted in the 2017 Finance Act and goes to finance the Finance Act for next year. If the funding is not provided through adjustments in the area of housing benefits, then the money must be found elsewhere. It is the government's job to ensure that the budget ultimately goes up. Therefore, during the negotiations on the 2017 Finance Act, discussions on the implementation of the savings are continuing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116174050	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116174051	Thank you for your answer. That is quite correct, as the Minister refers to it. No agreement could be reached on finding the savings on housing benefits primarily for the elderly, and a new contract text was drawn up, stating that it was still in the area of housing benefits that the money was to be found during 2016. So it also matters, as we are at least about to be at the end of 2016. I know that there are financial law negotiations and so on, but if the disagreement that there is is that it is not the elderly who have to pay, the consequence must be that it is others who are receiving housing benefits today who will then have to finance that saving. But I would like to return to what is my real question. After all, we all experienced that there was some sort of chaotic state last year when Payout Denmark entered into it and implemented the law before it was adopted. Has the Minister considered how to avoid such a chaotic situation for 2017? Because we're about to have, we're going to have to say over time when we're talking 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116174202	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116174203	We learned a lot here 11 months ago. The housing sector is a very difficult area to change because it is an annual regulation that needs to be changed. So I dare to promise that no matter what happens, we will not experience the same ambiguity that many citizens experienced 11 months ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116174233	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116174234	Thank you. That must also mean something. I welcome the Minister's reply that the insecurity and confusion that arose last year have taught the government, so we will not experience it again from 2017. But if we do not manage to adopt either a financial law or another agreement, so that the adopted one can be implemented as from 1 January, then it must mean that the saving must be higher if we want to have that revenue back home at least and cannot get it into Payout Denmark per year. January 1. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20161116174312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116174313	Yes, the agreement today is that the money should be found in the area of housing benefits. How they are to be found must be shown by the financial agreement. But it is quite true that if the money is to be found in that area and you cannot find it, so that it will have effect here from 1 January, there will be more money to be found later. I would like to say that it is in fact considerations of this nature that are one of the reasons why the government considers it appropriate to change the rules in the area of housing benefits. We have two different rental compensation systems today, housing insurance and housing benefits, and this creates some imbalances, and the sooner the imbalance is eliminated, the better the government thinks it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116174403	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116174404	Thank you again for your answer. I am pleased that the Minister agrees that we had a somewhat inappropriate situation last year, where a great many people were confused and questioned. But what I can fear is that we may experience a similar situation, because as the Minister confirms, the government and the support parties must at least find this money, and the moment the negotiations are dragging out and paying out Denmark cannot manage to implement it, that means that there will still be this uncertainty as to how much housing benefits should actually be reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116174440	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116174441	On behalf of the citizens who experienced the uncertainty 11 months ago, I can only repeat that that uncertainty will not repeat itself around the turn of the year this year. I promise.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116174458	Thank you. That concludes the question. We thank the Minister and the questioner. That concludes Question Time as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20161116174509	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, 17 November 2016, at 10:00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
